ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e67	The representative Trond Giske, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e81	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the President will propose that the Storting depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after the completion of cases 1 and 2 and then total voting after cases 3 to 9 at the end of today’s meeting. So there's going to be voting during the day. No objections have been raised against the president's proposal? – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that matters 1 and 2 be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e112	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from the member of the government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e125	I would like to thank the members of the Financial Committee for their cooperation on the tax and tax arrangements for the 2017 State Budget, and I believe that the various parties themselves present their own proposals. Tax is not an objective in itself, but a means of financing different common tasks and well-being. However, taxes affect the way people and businesses behave, and that means that both taxes and taxes can stimulate behaviour in the desired direction. This is not least the case in the green shift, where governments and cooperation parties want to stimulate a more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly behaviour. Choice of environmentally friendly solutions, not least in the transport sector, shall be worthwhile. The right is pleased that the government is following up the broad tax settlement from spring 2016. We want to strengthen private ownership, and it's going to pay off more to work, save and invest. Tax policy should also contribute to social mobility, but the greatest difference between people in Norway is between those who have a job and those who are out of work. This is why job creation and securing existing jobs are one of the most important things we can do to prevent inequality. The company tax is reduced to 24 pst. and will continue down to 23 pst. by 2018. This is an important step towards harmonising the level of taxation between Norway and our neighbouring countries, and it is also important to stimulate business activity. The reduction in corporate tax is probably one of the most important things we can do in this respect. The government also follows up work on the halting of the years of fiscal favorisation of property investments. Our goal is to stimulate increased investment in industry and other economic activity, and it is therefore good that we now have a change and a reduction in the wealth tax on working capital, i.e. shares and operating resources. In reality, property tax is an additional tax on Norwegian ownership of Norwegian jobs, and these changes contribute to a reduction in the damage caused by this tax. We have to set up a stock-saving account system that makes it easier for individuals to invest in shares and increase the ownership of small companies in Norwegian companies. In addition, we follow up the agreement of the tax settlement to keep the level of dividend tax almost unchanged when we see corporation tax and dividend tax in the context. In addition, it is important to mention that the screening rate is also increased and that this could provide further incentives for investment in jobs and economic activity. The government is following up the desire of a total increase to impose on the financial industry a separate financial tax as a result of the fact that the industry is currently exempt from VAT. A tax is introduced on the basis of earnings in the financial sector. In addition, the surplus tax in the sector is continued at the 2016 level. Thus, the two elements constituting the added value created in the industry are taxed. In particular the alignment with 5 pst. the taxation of the salary base has been re-disputed in the fear that jobs will be laid down or moved. The financial industry, and especially the banks throughout the country, has been changing for many years, and even before the financial tax became applicable, many local offices have been shut down, and employees have lost their jobs. Last week we could also read about a new bank robot that could apparently replace up to 40 employees. So there's no doubt that the industry has been and is in a continuous process of change. I am pleased that a Joint Committee supports the wish to re-evaluate the establishment of the financial tax after the work committee chaired by Professor Hjelmeng has issued its report on 1 January 2018. This sample shall include, inter alia: assess how public and private financial institutions can be more equal in tax matters. In this context, an overall committee wants one to look at the relative share taxed on wages and profits, with a view to adding a greater share of the tax on profits. It is important to protect the tax base and therefore also to ask for a review and assessment of both the potential for profit movements and other tax conditions specific to the financial industry. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Right Party and the Advance Party join the proposal on tax incentives for investment in start-up companies. This is part of the order from the tax settlement, which the government has informed about in this state budget and even suggested that one should continue to work on. It is important to develop different, concrete models of how this can be done, and it is therefore natural that government parties join this proposal. The government has provided a tax package that strengthens the growth capacity of the economy, facilitates the transition and creates new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e153	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e158	The right went to the choice to cut the tax and tax levels and make the Norwegian economy less oil dependent. The loss of income would be financed by cutting red tape, more private jobs and so-called dynamic effects of tax cuts. Three years later, taxes have been cut, but charges have increased, and the deficit has increased dramatically. Bureaucracy shoots in the weather, unemployment has reached its highest level in 20 years, and no more private jobs are created. Nor has the economy been more oil dependent. While the government has had zero control over expenditure growth, the blind belief in dynamic tax policies has contributed to a significant decline in revenue. The result is that the differences are increasing, and that we are on our way to drain the oil fund in a few years. What does the representative Meling think about the Right's economic policy until those degrees have failed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e167	This government, and the Right, took over a Norway in the headwind. Unfortunately, the previous government has not used the large space for action – the high oil price and the growth engine in the Norwegian economy – in a way that would make Norway and our business more robust in the transition we are now experiencing because the oil price has fallen so considerably over the past few years. I'm glad that we have a government that takes it to secure jobs and create jobs seriously, which provides for business and growth in the private sector. It is important that we now focus on transport, that we focus on knowledge, and that we provide tax reductions to stimulate increased activity and to create and secure jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e174	The main instrument for Norwegian business in recent years has been the krona, which Højres leader, Erna Solberg, actively argued that the euro should be replaced in 2005. So at least it must be good for the Right that the Right has not got through that area. My line is about commuting. Over the three years, the Right has ruled, one who commutes six miles, gets NOK 3 206 more in taxes – one who commutes six miles every day. Before the budget was presented, there was a great deal to say that now the commuting allowance would be improved, and then 80 kroner of the 3,200 kroner that were initially taken back. Does the representative, Meling, think there's a stake in the commuters?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e179	I am pleased that this government has had a historic commitment to culture. One of the most important things for those who commute is that we have effective and safe roads, and that we have a collective system that allows them to get back and forth effectively and make it possible to live in, for example, work. on the outskirts of large galleys. I think that's the most important thing for the commuters. Then we've also made considerable tax relief for most people. It also means a lot in relation to the economic situation and the commuting. Then we have also focused on fuel taxes. They have been increased somewhat, and it has to be seen in the context of the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e186	As the main figure for the two government parties: Is the representative Meling satisfied that one in one year has managed to increase fuel taxes more than one could in eight red-green years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e191	I am pleased that we have a government that takes the climate challenge seriously. It is actually the biggest challenge we are facing in the future, and it is clear that in this picture the transport sector, as part of the non-quota sector, must also take a large part of the reductions to come. In the large picture, fuel taxes will also be an important element, but at the same time it is important for car owners to see the whole picture, namely that the large reductions we have made in one-off taxes, etc., framework conditions for electric cars, make car users really come out very well when you see these things together.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e196	The civil state budget for 2015 raised awareness when it was presented, and when it was adopted, due to very unsocial cuts on the one hand and huge tax cuts on the country's richest on the other. What we heard from the Right then was that it was important to have large tax cuts for the most wealthy because it would free up capital to create more jobs. Now we have phased out for the financial year 2015, and there were new numbers from the SSB yesterday. There are not exactly more jobs in Norway than it was in the previous year. On the contrary, this government is probably the least effective in many years in creating new jobs in the private sector, but there were 10,700 more poor. What is the Right’s comment that the government’s policy is now demonstrably increasing the differences and poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e202	We're concerned with reducing inequalities in Norway, but what we have to admit is that the biggest single factor that creates inequality among people in Norway is whether you have a job or if you're out of work. This is why a lot of focus has been on securing existing jobs and preparing the ground for creating new jobs. That's all, the most important thing we can do to mitigate the inequalities in Norway. Creating a good school that allows everyone to get an education, get a job and support themselves and their family is one of the most important things we can do. In addition, of course, it is important to focus on our welfare systems and take care of those who unfortunately do not have the opportunity to work and support themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e207	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e212	How we spend the money on the state budget, often creates more commitment overall than how we're going to collect it. However, the tax system provides the basis for all that we can actually do in the budget. We pay for school, education, infrastructure, health, kindergarten and other elements that are absolutely central to making our society not only a better society, but also a competitive society for ourselves and our businesses. High participation in the labour market and a relatively high level of taxation mean that we are able to pay for a strong community which is the basic plan of the Norwegian society. This community is based on trust and an understanding that all provide according to ability, but also that everyone can extract what they need to participate in the best possible way. To achieve this, we need a tax system designed to minimise the loss of efficiency. The Labour Party and Norway carried out a comprehensive tax reform in 1992 based on the principle of broad tax bases, low rates and symmetric treatment of income and expenditure. Because we treat different industries in a very similar way, we also make sure that the capital invests where it throws most of it. These principles are also underpinned by the corporate tax reform adopted in Stortinget before the summer – a reform in which the Workers' Party was given a majority for most of the demands we made in advance. Here, corporation tax is reduced to 23 p.m., while dividend tax is increased and property tax remains. This was far from what representatives from the government parties were out and advertised as their main wishes during the negotiation. Where the government prioritises large general tax cuts, the Workers' Party prioritises distortions in the tax system that ensure a greater degree of efficiency in the system, while maintaining the revenue of the Community. This means that the Labour Party budget can invest more together, while not participating in the irresponsible high phase-in of oil money that the government parties have set up – a phase-in rate that would have ensured that the fund would be empty at the beginning of the 2040s. This government has now cut taxes by nearly 25 billion. kr and increased the fees by 3,3 billion. kr. The tax havens have largely benefited them with the largest assets, while the fees we all pay quite evenly over. The 95 percent with the lowest wealth – up to 5 million. kr – get on average NOK 2862 in tax cut – approximately NOK 8 per day. The 1000 richest get an average of 656 200 kroner in tax cuts – about $1,800 a day. About a quarter of the total personal tax bills have fallen into the 5 pst. richest in Norway. The Labour Party proposes in this budget to increase taxes by 5.45 billion. kr and the fees of SEK 5,05 billion. kr compared to the government’s 2017 proposal. The proposed wealth tax increase of the Workers' Party is about 3.9 billion. kr booked and SEK 4,85 billion. Illuminated. We are proposing a bottom-up deduction in line with the government's proposal, while increasing the rate from 0.85 to 1.2 p.p., which may come as a surprise to the representative of the Valen. That's about 12 pst. by the population paying taxes on wealth. So when we hear that the wealth tax laws are important to most people, this rhymes badly with reality. Not most people pay this tax, so you can get the impression when you hear the government parties. With our proposal, a couple could own a paid-down house at a market value of 11.6 million. kr without having to pay taxes on wealth, given that they have no other assets in addition. Neither can we say here that there are ordinary people or people most affected by our increases in property taxes. What most people would thus notice if the Workers' Party's proposal for changes in income tax had been adopted is that they would get lower taxes with our proposal, given that we keep the wealth tax out, and we can do that for most, at least for those with housing under 11 million. kr. In fact, people with incomes of up to NOK 600 000, which corresponds to about 80 p.p. of the population, get slightly lower taxes with our scheme than with the government's proposal for the 2017 budget. In short, four out of five would have lower income taxes with the Workers' Party. Then it's only 12 pst that pays property taxes – i.e. a tax and tax scheme that is for the most people, I would say. The government's mantra is to cut taxes on wealth to provide jobs in the private sector, despite the fact that there is no evidence to claim it. To date this year, there has been no net creation of a new job in the private sector. Where growth has taken place in the workplace, it is within the State administration. The government itself writes in the national budget that the unemployment rate is about to fall at a high level. It may seem that the government has bombed roughly in what they have chosen as an instrument. So the government is weakening our ability to make a good transition through the grips it is doing in fiscal policy. That's 21.5 billion. kr annually which cannot be used to strengthen the community and equip us for the future. In the 2015 national budget, even the government wrote that the cuts in the property tax are likely to go primarily to savings, i.e. not to investment in new businesses. In their comments on this position, the Progress Party and the Right do not dare to write that the cut in the taxes on wealth is particularly stimulating, as they write about corporate taxes and personal taxes. I see this as a confession that they realize that they do not have coverage for such a claim. Unfortunately, this will not lead to our not wanting to hear the oral statement here today or to our being sautéed with other tax cuts. What government parties and state councils should then be warned against is that they show to the world that they do not understand how to put together a tax system with a high degree of efficiency. Maybe that's why the well-founded overall arrangement of the Workers' Party got so much support before the summer? Through this budget, the government's work continues to increase inequalities, both directly through the tax system and through cuts in welfare and municipalities. As I was inside, trust is fundamental to this system. Therefore, the Workers' Party has been the drivers of measures against capital transfers and profit movements. The largest enterprises shall not be able to organise themselves out of paying taxes. The company tax and the interest limit rule, also for external interest rates, are good, but we have to do more, and the Workers' Party is impatient to set up a ownership register for real owners. We need to go through the law so that we can pursue those who are organizers of this activity, and we need to see if the law is robust enough to withstand the complex group structures being developed and the advanced financial instruments. Here we expect the Council of State to make visible and come to Stortinget with these matters in good time before the summer. Towards the end: The Labour Party prioritises giving tax cuts to a group of people who have a special key role in the Norwegian economy – those who are organised in a trade union. This deduction has remained silent for all the years that the government has ruled. There is a lack of understanding of the importance of the role of trade unions in the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian model. If Siv Jensen or others think they could achieve the same results with moderate wage growth in a difficult economic time without responsible trade unions with central wage formation, they are very wrong. Unlike the claims made by the government about their tax cuts, I have good evidence of mine. When it comes to the billing scheme, I will be very careful to say that others come closer to it. However, it may seem that the tax arrangements for the Workers' Party have had a significant impact on the negotiations between the government parties. We see again that what has been the starting point for the budget was to the right of the Right, that is, far away from what is the center of Norwegian policy – a situation that I think will hardly be able to maintain. Finally, I address all the proposals in which the Workers' Party is the proposer or the co-rapporteur, with the exception of proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e250	The representative of Truls Wickholm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e257	While the whole employment growth under the Workers' Party has fallen to migrant workers, we have seen that this year and last year together, around 110 000 new businesses have started in Norway, according to the SSB – this is due to better framework conditions and tax policies of this government. When the government removed the inheritance fee, the Workers' Party called it the social tax bill, but later it has not reintroduced it. When the government removed holiday pay for the unemployed, the Workers' Party called it unsocial, but has not reinstated it. When the government introduced air passenger charges, the Workers' Party called it unsocial, but chooses to keep it. It's okay. We know that the Workers' Party is stronger in rhetoric than in politics. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, a tax increase of about 10 billion has been proposed. kr, but all the tax vows, including physical activity in school, school food, dental health, etc., are estimated to cost between 15 billion. DKK and 22 billion In addition, kr. Does that mean that the Workers' Party's actual tax bill is between 25 and 32 billion? kr more, or shall all these promises be broken?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e264	Here were many statements from the Right. Right is a calculator part that's happy to sit and count on things for itself, and see what things cost. But it is also the case that once this government has implemented massive tax cuts, tax cuts that seem to have had no effect on contributing to employment or job growth in the private sector, it is only necessary to establish that that money has been used completely incorrectly. The fact that the Workers' Party in one year is unable to rectify all the tax cuts that the Right has done over four years, I don't think you should be very surprised about. It would not be in line with what is the Labour Party's way of operating policies, that is, seriously and predictablely, and it has been important for us once we have created our budget this time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e271	The representative, Wickholm, spoke almost warmly about the union deduction, and there is probably a lot of good about it. Another theme that goes on another part of society, which, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, is also important, is the voluntary organisations. With the majority that has now been in this room, we have more than doubled the amount of what gives the right to deduct the tax on gifts to non-governmental organisations. It's important, because this is money that actually benefits volunteering, without any government decree on how to use that money. This is free money. What is the reason why the Workers' Party is not involved in this promise of volunteering?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e276	Let me first say that when you talk about free money and money to be followed without a decree, I could draw the representative of Syversen's attention to the municipal scheme for the coming years, where most of the money is tied up. Some say that more money than what has come from new, fresh resources is tied up, so that many municipalities now actually experience cutbacks in what is the current year's budget. When it comes to volunteering, we just have to note that volunteering itself has said that this is one of the worst budgets ever made available for volunteering and that the amount of money present is not good enough. Of course, it's nice that the Christian People's Party and the Left have got things in the last turn, but as a whole, as a bet on volunteering in Norway, this budget is far from what we could hope for, and far away from what has been past years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e283	The Labour Party is constantly getting away with initiatives to debate the number or number of new jobs created in the private sector, as is the case today in a previous line. One thing is that the Labour Party grossly, almost unworthyly, simplifies the premise of the debate, but the debate is also quite uninteresting if an actual human being is occupied by unemployment, and not by rhetoric. It is of no interest in the sense that the Labour Party is not willing to use the tax system actively, as is the heavy tool, to create more jobs in the private sector – rather, on the contrary, with a tax tightening of well over 10 billion. kr which happens to business, Norwegian jobs, directly. The question to the representative of Wickholm is: Does he really believe that the tax scheme for the Workers' Party is a tax scheme that facilitates Norwegian business, Norwegian jobs, creates new growth, than what is agreed today? Or is it consciously double communication with regard to the forthcoming elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e290	Here I think there is a fundamental disagreement about how to look at how to create jobs in a difficult time. The Workers' Party has caused the SSB to calculate the difference in the way the Left and the Government spend money, and especially when it comes to the cuts in the property tax. It has then been estimated that the approximate cost of creating one job in the private sector through a cut in the wealth tax is 64 million. kr. If you had used the money in a different way, you could have got everything from 15 to 70 times more jobs per invested dollar than what the government is paying for. I think the creation of a market and the possibility for private companies that already exist, to build up, come through a crisis period, get the opportunity to look for new markets and change, is a much better way to spend money than channel it right into the savings account of individuals, and then get an assessment of whether they are willing to invest in jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e295	A few days ago, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Annicken Hauglie said to the VG that the government’s tax cuts ‘allow more people to live on their own earnings’. In that case, it must be assumed that the fact that more people can live on their own salary means some tax cuts that correspond to some extra knucklebread in the year. In other words, the level of ambition is low. I note in this debate that the Minister of Finance's own party does not take a line on the figures of the largest opposition party, the party that else says they're too tax cut for most people. It may well be that the tax arrangements of both the Labour Party and the Socialist Left involve more tax cuts for people than the party of the Minister of Finance is able to deliver. Does the representative, Mr Wickholm, agree that this debate so far indicates a resignation from the Progress Party, which now turns out to be the elitist party we have always known it to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e305	I was interested in some of this in my post, and I also noticed what the representative Valen says, that the Progress Party does not take a line. It's enough because they're worried about having to participate in an active debate where they have to answer because they have chosen to spend the big money on giving them 12 pst. with taxes on wealth in Norway, massive tax cuts. But with the structure of the Workers' Party, in which the Vala is inside, they get 80 pst. less tax on the population of the country than on the arrangements of the Progress Party, given that they do not have any wealth. I have never heard that the ‘tagline’ of the Progress Party is the ‘party for people most of all with wealth’, but it is possible that it is what needs to be the new mantra, because it is quite clear in the budget that it is how the money is prioritised. I don't know if that's a result of them now cooperating with the Right, but that's what's become the Progress Party in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e310	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e315	Taxes to Norwegian workplaces are incredibly important because lower tax pressures are the most effective medicine to create more jobs and more value creation. Many of the tax changes Stortinget has to adopt today is a direct follow-up to the tax settlement where corporation tax is to be cut to 23 p.m., while reducing the wealth tax on working capital. I am sincerely pleased that the Workers' Party joined this tax settlement, and that there is therefore hardly a lot of debate about those issues today. Step by step, we're now going in the right direction. We contribute to a lower tax rate, which will contribute to increased investment, increased saving and increased activity, providing safe jobs. I am extremely pleased with the distribution profile, both in the government's draft budget and in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. In the government's draft government budget for 2017, 97 pst. by all taxpayers receive lower or approximately unchanged taxes. Lower tax burden on individuals means more freedom and increased personal well-being. The budgetary agreement has not been resolved in this respect to an appreciable extent, because with the budget unit a whole of 96 p.m. by taxpayers less or approximately unchanged tax. Budgetary unity also means that a person with income corresponding to an average industrial worker’s salary receives on average NOK 1000 in tax reliefs. What's almost as important is that very few pay for a tax tightening. The fasite shows that only 1.3 pst. the taxpayers have an increase of more than NOK 2000 and their average gross income is approximately SEK 1.3 million. kr. The result of four budgets with the Progress Party in government is that an average family will pay about NOK 8 000 less in taxes in 2017 than when we took over in 2013. The Progress Party has always fought for cheaper cars for most people, and I am incredibly proud that since 2013, the Advance Party and the government have cut the price of new cars by nearly 3 billion. kr. Already when the state budget for 2017 was presented, the figures showed that an average one-off charge had fallen by NOK 20 000 per car. Now we're taking another step in the right direction, and I'm worried that the Progress Party, the government and the cooperation parties have once again given great relief to safe family cars for most people. The most important approach that we agree on for 2017 is to remove the horsepower tax and turn the fee over to CO 2 emissions. Now it's time for horse forces to be punished. The Bilinfo.no website has published a list of the 100 cars that get the biggest tax cut, a list that pleases any car enthusiast. Some examples of what the tax rate means in practice are that the charge on Norway’s most sold hybrid truck, Mitsubishi Outlander, is halved, that the charge on the chargeable hybrid car Volkswagen Golf GTE is kept at NOK 0, and that the charge on a new Volvo XC90 is reduced by nearly NOK 100000 compared to 2016. The budgetary agreement also contains a point that the one-off charge should be changed so that chargeable hybrid cars with a long electric range come out better than cars with a short electric range. The reason why the cooperation parties provide additional chargeable hybrid cars in 2017 is simple: Only 22 pst. of the daily journeys by car exceeding 20 km and the average journey by car is 15,8 km. A typical rechargeable hybrid car will be able to drive longer than this on battery. Most people should be able to do well in everyday life with all-electric driving if they have a plug-in hybrid car. Studies show that the vast majority of people who drive hybrid trucks load the car once a day or every time they park near home. This makes sense given how much cheaper it is to run on electricity. The most effective climate action we can do is renew the car park. The average Norwegian road vehicle today is a 2005 model with about 180 grams of CO 2 per km of emissions. The average CO 2 emissions for all new passenger cars registered in November were 88 grams per km, which means that Norway is now below the EU target of 95 grams per km by 2020. People should be glad to see how the Party's tax reliefs lead to ever lower CO 2 emissions from Norwegian cars. When we write 2025, the average car on Norwegian roads will emit about half of what the average car does today. This happens at the same time that most people can enjoy cheaper family cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e348	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e353	Since we didn't get the opportunity in the last round, we get to re-open the discussion about the game for the wealthy. That's like 25 pst. of the cuts in the personal taxes have gone to the 5 pst. richest in the country. It's just 12 pst. by the population paying taxes on wealth – they have been taxed heavily. Four out of five receive lower taxes with the Workers' Party's arrangements than with the government's arrangements. Then my question is, where is the Progress Party going to give tax cuts to most people? It is now the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party that give tax cuts to most people, while at the same time allowing those who have the most, to pay a little more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e360	I record that it is very easy to be in opposition and demanding tax relief, but that there is a need for a Progress Party in position to implement them. History shows that every year between 2005 and 2013, those with revenues of between 350 000 and 750000 DKK received increased taxes with the Workers' Party in government. The same group has experienced a reduction in their taxes every year with the Advance Party in government, and they will now pay between NOK 2 500 and NOK 6 000 less in taxes in 2017 than they did in 2013 when we took over. At the same time, as I mentioned, an average family will pay about NOK 8 000 less in taxes in 2017 than they did in 2013 when we took over. I think we as a party should be proud of that. It shows that we've managed to get reduced taxes on ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e367	When the representative Steffensen was running an election campaign in 2013, he promised to cut the fee. The representative Steffensen cage in Gjesdal municipality. There is a built called Dirdal. If a cage in Dirdal and is a farmer, one has received more expensive diesel. If a cage in Dirdal and it's commuter, one's got poorer commuter deductions and more expensive diesel. This is a district enemy policy. If you're in Stavanger, Roy promised Steffensen a cut in tolls. Now people in Stavanger got Christmas gifts from the government. Yesterday, proposals were submitted by the Progress Party and the Right in the government on a 25-billion-billion-dollar toll package. kr. At some points for heavy goods vehicles, tolls will be higher than those decided locally. My question is: will the representative of Steffensen apologise to the voters in Gésdal, in Dirdal and in Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e372	Unlike the representative Pollestad, I am concerned about reducing the toll on Norwegian drivers when we are in government. What was the fact of the past period was that while Pollestad was the State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport and was involved in making the national transport plan where there was a record toll wagering, he didn't know how much toll they put in, because the first thing that this representative did when he came to the Stortinget was to ask the Minister of Transport: how much toll is it expected to be built with the national transport plan over the next four years? That was the attitude of the Center Party when it came to tolls. While the Progress Party has made sure that we have cut eight bomb projects, and we have reduced the tariffs to about twenty. It's just asking the drivers in e.g. North Norway, who pays 2 billion. kr less in tolls with the Advance Party in government than they would have done if Geir Pollestad had remained in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e377	There has been an interesting development here, where we see the Right Party and the Progress Party draw the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party behind in tax policy, and there has been a tax competition about who can give the most in tax laws to people the most. And that's good. This government has made sure that both taxes are given to business and to people most, because it has to follow each other a little bit. We now see that 110 000 new businesses have been established in the last two years due to improved competitive conditions in Norway following this government's policy. Then we heard the representative Wickholm say that they wouldn't be able to change the tax codes of the Right and the Advance Party in the first year. Then there's going to be an increase in taxes of more than 10 billion. kr in the first year. But then there remains a promise of increased taxes of 15 to 20 billion. In addition, kr. How does the Progress Party think these increased taxes will affect the business world, which is going to give jobs to people the most, and provide them with opportunities just as the transition to create the jobs that people most need?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e384	Thank you very much for a very interesting and good question. No, I do share the concern of the Right that increasing the tax burden on Norwegian companies is not the way to go. In the time we are now experiencing, where companies across the West from Kristiansand to Kristiansund sit and wonder how to reduce their deficit, and how to manage to keep as many of their employees as possible, I am concerned that the Workers' Party will come to government and implement its policy of increasing taxes, where they have said in the first year it will be 10.5 billion. kr, and where we can only expect further increase in the years to come. It's worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e389	If I had delivered as unsocial things as what is in this budget here, I would also need support from the Right. The representative, Steffensen, said that history shows that taxes are increasing for ordinary people when the left side is running, but now it's like a person who earns 300,000 kroner a year got 4,600 kroner in tax cuts when Kristin Halvorsen was Minister of Finance. While the same person gets NOK 1 and NOK 65 in the tax cut from Siv Jensen and the Progress Party in this budget. First of all, on a scale from 1 to 10, how demeaning does the representative Steffensen think it is to give $1 and $65 a day to help caregivers and craftsmen, but hundreds of thousands of dollars to the fift? Secondly, if it's tax cuts to business, the Progress Party says they're prioritizing, then why they're knocking another 1.8 billion. Do I cut off the initial write-offs of machines and equipment to the very enterprises that need to invest and convert in a tough time for the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e395	Once again, I'm happy with the job we've done when it comes to tax relief for ordinary people. We've made sure that all groups get reduced taxes, while history shows that the groups got increased taxes while the red-greens were in government. Now, when we're talking about low-income families, it's not just tax cuts that's been taken care of. Significant improvements have been made in, for example: the housing aid scheme. It will benefit thousands. There have been lower prices in kindergartens for those who make NOK 473,000 or less. That's almost $6,000 a year. More people get free core time in the kindergarten. These are just some measures that help to ensure that we have raised low-income families, so that they get a better daily life, while at the same time we have launched a strategy against child poverty, which will also help low-income families.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e402	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e407	Thanks to the rapporteur for the work done on this setting. In the tax field, the government has very much followed up on what was an important tax settlement earlier this year. The company tax is reduced and the so-called working capital in the property tax is also lower than the other wealth. I also want to point out, because many people are concerned about housing prices, that this has been taken seriously both by the majority here and now, I think, the whole Biggest, by increasing the value of secondary dwellings and beyond. It is important when we see how many people have invested – and not just invested, but perhaps speculated – in property that goes beyond the property in which you live. I am also very pleased that we have got into a stock savings account, which I believe contributes to increased capital for Norwegian business in the long term, and a consensus on tax incentives for start-up companies. There has been a lot of discussion about the so-called financial tax. From the Scheel Committee's proposal for what is now the decision, there has been a rather long way to go, and the proceeds have fallen quite a bit from the initial estimate of the Scheel Committee. From the Christian People's Party we, together with the Left Party and the Center Party, have pointed to another device, namely that this should be put on profit and not divided between salary and profit. I have trouble understanding why it would be so problematic to put everything on the surplus, as a device that would give the necessary proceeds, if there are principles you're concerned about. The principle of one tax rate is also waived in the government's arrangement, and I'm not so sure that the difference in rate itself will trigger one or the other, as long as you already touch the principle of one common rate. But now the majority – or the whole Stortinget – will look at the device. I wish the government good luck with that. Then we are pleased with the voluntary nature and the contributions the majority makes to strengthen it in this tax system. A proposal that has created a great deal of interest is the proposal for the possibility of the Vinmonopole taking over the tax-free part in terms of the alcohol sale at our airports. There is something about the Nordics and alcohol – then there will be a quick debate! The main argument for such an acquisition has been delivered by the government itself in its proposition. I quote: ‘In the opinion of the investigator, the take-over of the tax-free sale would rather strengthen than weaken the rationale of the wine monopoly and the consistency of the current system.’ This has to do with the wine monopoly having an exception today. And the more of the alcohol sales that go beyond the wine monopoly, the more turbulent it becomes the construction. It is interesting that when we realized that this could be a theme, it did not take very long before we received a large e-mail from the company that operates today. They were worried – so not on their own, but on Avinor's behalf they were very worried. I guess you can see that. It is amazing that in 2012 this company got a ten-year lease without it being in line with normal tendering rules, but under an exception. Then to the voting. Firstly, I will address our proposals, including the solution of the proposal in the Chamber. Then there is a request to the Workers' Party, which has proposal No 2, which says: ‘The budget asks the Government to investigate and propose a mechanism to ensure that all those importing cars into the country are covered by the statutory return schemes and contribute to their financing.’ It's on page 83 of the setting. If the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are willing to cancel 'and propose' so that we get an investigation, at least the Christian People's Party can participate in it. Finally, I am sorry, but it is to facilitate voting: it concerns the setting letter B, Roman number IV, on page 117, to continue the current practice of not shortening the NAV performance as a result of receiving termination benefits. If that's the way we've been told, that this presents significant economic challenges, I expect the government to take it into account in its assessment of it and come back to Stortinget if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e443	Then the representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposals of the Christian People's Party. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e450	The Christian People's Party has its primary arrangement in this position, and there they have added a net tax increase compared to the government of 8.5 billion. booked and €9.3 billion. incurred. The Christian People's Party also disagrees with the phase-in pace of the government when it comes to oil money use and marks it with 200 million. kr during the government phase-in period. Then we have heard extensive criticism from the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, that the Workers' Party will increase the taxes in the order of 10 billion. And it makes sense that we're less than 4 billion dollars. kr in the use of oil money, which is described as not important. What do Christian People's Party and the Seven think when he hears his own partners judge north and down what in many ways is also the Christian People's Party's approach and policy in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e457	I guess it was a book title once called "But you never get my mind," but I can say a little bit. Clearly, our approach is the best, I think everyone understands that if we have promoted an alternative budget, that's what you stand for primarily. With regard to the joint arrangement that we now have with the government parties, there are a lot of points here on which the Workers' Party is also involved, namely the reduction of company taxes, the property tax on working capital, and on property. I am really pleased, if you see the broad scope of this, that there is a large and broad consensus on the tax system in Norway, I think that is important both for business and for individuals. Then we disagree on some issues, and there we are probably in the middle of the Workers' Party and some other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e462	The Christian People's Party is in a comment and behind a proposal from the majority parties outside the government parties, that tax deductions for private ownership of start-ups are more urgent. Siri Meling has now said that we too agree with the proposal, probably not the criticism, while seeking tax deductions for private individuals. This debate then reveals that on the other hand, government parties are criticised for tax cuts in ownership of existing companies. Then is my question to the Christian People's Party: how will the Christian People's Party address itself in the debate that needs to come about taxes on private Norwegian ownership in general, because it is important to create new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e467	Firstly, I am very pleased that there will be unanimity on the proposal to which the fleet representative referred, and that shows a little of the dilemma as to the position to be taken in the debate. Taking the position based on what are the value creations in society, most people are busy with taxes, that there is also an element that is important to contribute to increased value creation. When you come to the big debate on how much welfare you can afford, the tax question suddenly becomes different. It is this context at least the Christian People's Party is concerned that a tax system that also contributes to raising business and, providing opportunities for investment, will ultimately also be the pillar of a good welfare society. There I feel that we have a lot in common with the Right. We have a slightly different arrangement on the property tax, but that this has a connection, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e472	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e477	In tax policy, predictability is very important; individuals and businesses know what they have to do over time. Therefore, when it comes to changing tax policy, it should be gradual, and it should be a knowledge-based change. That is good conservative policy, and it is wise in fiscal policy. That is why we have been critical of part of the rough shifts that today's government and large-scale numbers have done, among other things. in the case of a seat charge last year, because it was not possible for single operators to see that it came, it was not knowledge-based, and it happened overnight. This gave you the results you did with that, for example. 1 000 jobs disappeared in the Rygge area. In the spring we had a discussion and a tax settlement in Stortinget. There was the thing that we agreed and disagreed with, but nevertheless we thought it was important to be part of a broad settlement, so that there would be predictability over time for those who invest in Norway now, that they should know that even with a shifting majority, the basic premises are in place. There were some elements in the tax settlement that there was disagreement, which also stood very clearly in. Fortunately, we managed to stop the reversal of good depreciation rates for those who have invested heavily in livestock buildings. It was possible to get the majority on, and that's where we stand, and the government has also followed up in the tax proposition. It has given predictability to those who have invested under this regime. We think it was unwise, what came into the tax settlement on depreciation, where – in a way – the possibility of using depreciation was written off more actively. It is a good tool that can stimulate enterprises, especially at an early stage. That is why we have continued the start-up write-off scheme in our budget line, because we believe it is very important for businesses when they invest heavily at first, that one can get capital back, that one has less tax burden in the start-up of an enterprise. We've prioritised 1.8 billion. kr to it, which the government has not prioritised. As regards the discussion on financial taxes, there have been several rounds on it. We have thought that it has been right to tax that part of Norwegian business harder, that they should also contribute to financing the community. Through the debate and the various counter-conceptions that we have received, we have thought that the model that is now adopted is not the best model, that the model has some unfortunate effects, and that it is those parts of the Norwegian financial sector that have the weakest back that get the most strain. We think that's an unwise way to go. We believe it would have been better to take the tax on profits. What's a little sad is that it seems like that's really what the whole Storting thing means, but because you fear the EEA, you choose another model. Since the EEA Agreement was concluded in its time, tax policy should not be part of it, but it seems that that is what has been the main reason for choosing the model that you actually do, and that is what we think is a sin. Then there's another priority that we've done in our tax and tax arrangements, and it's about commuting. We believe it is important for the economy that people are willing to go to work – go far to work. Especially when there is increasing unemployment, there is a part that has to go beyond what they would have thought, because the jobs in their community are gone. Therefore, we find it sad that the government and the majority parties have begun to use the commuting allowance as a symbol of whether one is in favour of or against a good climate policy. The point is that people live where they live, and the work is where the work is, and then the commuting allowance has been an effective way of helping those who have an extra long way. One commuter who commutes six miles each way, with today's decision, has received NOK 3 100 more in tax than the same commuter had in 2013. I think it is nice to have traditional district parties, such as. Christian People's Party, support. We have in our tax system a device that makes all those who have income less than NOK 750,000, which is a very high income, get little less tax. Those who get the most relief are those who earn from NOK 400,000 to NOK 600,000. They're small, but that's where the profile is. We've disagreed with the government's profile, where the richest have received the greatest relief. Simply summed up, the 50 richest have got about. 1 billion. Siv Jensen and the government have governed fiscal policy. We believe that this has been a wrong priority – rather, we should have spent that money on the many rather than on the few. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e496	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e504	Both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are engaged by entrepreneurs and start-up companies. Yes, there are even several parties that say they're busy with it, but unfortunately, it often seems that it's only in party speeches. Last year, a large majority of the government also asked for different tax incentives/tax deductions for long-term investment in start-ups. Obviously, the government is opposed to it. But now we have heard here today that the government parties nevertheless join the proposal, so they have probably come to the conclusion that it was a little too awkward to be downhearted in that matter. But since the Central Party is involved in start-up companies, can the representative Schlagsvold Vedum explain why they are not involved in the proposal on incentives for co-ownership? Does not the Central Party see the benefits of employees being joint owners of the company in which they work, and can the representative explain why the Central Party believes that this is not for the benefit of small businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e509	The centre party is a party that is very concerned with personal ownership, and we believe it is a great strength for Norwegian business that there are many individuals who are willing to invest both time and capital – sometimes almost house and home – in order to be able to start businesses. It is a good thing in Norwegian business that we have many large and small businesses, and many of the big ones have also been small in the beginning, so we want to use tax policy actively to stimulate it. Some of what we have thought to be the most important instrument for many small businesses are depreciation rates — depreciation policy. That's why our main priority for business operators is that we have a higher depreciation rate, i.e. 30 pst, first year, because it will help a lot in the start-up phase. This means that you get a much lower tax burden in the first year you have invested in an enterprise. We believe that this is a very targeted and good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e514	I'm with the tax and tax adjustment from last year in my hands. It is true that the Central Party has had an impact on the model that they themselves introduced for financial taxation a year ago, where they proposed an activity tax of 7.8 p.m.. on salary and 7.8 pst. additional taxes on profits in the financial industry. They had a booked proceeds of a total of 6.8 billion. kr and proceeds incurred for a total of 8,5 billion. kr. Today, one year later, the Centre Party writes down pages in comments on how terrible the government's proposal for financial taxation is. Then it's natural to ask the representative, Battle Violence Vedum: what has happened in the Centre Party all day this year? Or are there things in the financial industry that justify this complete turnaround in their own policies, and the sudden concern about harming the jobs of the financial industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e519	In our work on the tax settlement, all the parties went through the different aspects of Norwegian tax policy in depth, and in this connection we also raise the issue that has now arisen again. We've seen that just those rashes that we've now been warned about could be so big. What is important with the Norwegian consultation system is to get input from large parts of the business community from different actors. We've been clear on the goal all along, we think it's right to tax the financial industry harder, but it's been demanding to find a good model, and that's why it hasn't come before now. And once we've got so many input from different actors, and they've been so unambiguous that the model that's been chosen is not the best, it's wise to listen. My impression is that the Right really also means the same thing, but because of the fear of the EEA you choose a model that the public word change has shown is not the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e524	You're allowed to change your mind, and you're allowed to listen. What I have a little bit of a problem understanding is when one a year ago suggested 7.8 pst. taxes on wages and salaries in the financial industry, and the government today takes advantage of its proposal for a 5 pst. tax on wages, there's something about how much the Senter Party puts in the remarks and criticisms of the government this year of something they themselves suggested a year ago. There could not have been such a big change during this one year. Perhaps the explanation is that it's approaching a choice, that the Centre Party is doing a lot to protect jobs in District Norway, and the arguments that have come up regarding, among other things. the savings banks in this case – that it is more a result of a populist attitude than that there really are realities in what the centre party stands for today and argues for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e529	I remember that when we presented our alternative budget last year, we had a debate with the representative Meling on the whole idea of a financial tax. The representative Meling was against the whole idea of a financial tax. Now she's thinking about a financial tax. What has been our goal is that the part of business should also contribute more to the community, that one should not receive as much tax subsidy as one has received. That's what happens. And then the public vocabulary has shown that the model that has been mentioned here and that is in the budget is not the best model. My impression is that this is what the Right believes. That's why you now agree with the comment that you're asking the government to review whether it's the good model. Then we've listened to the recordings, we think we have to suggest what is the best model. Unfortunately, it is the person who is being discouraged, and I think it is not because you want it, but because you fear the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e534	One of the problems with high taxes and thus high prices is that people who are going to shop find other ways to get hold of the products. An example is, of course, the fact that there is a large commercial leakage to other countries, perhaps Sweden in particular, leading to fewer jobs in Norway, especially those located at the Swedish border. The proposal for the Central Party states one point: ‘Health-promoting tax changes’. It might have been said that ‘health and crime-promoting tax changes’, because one of the major problems in increasing the tax on alcohol and tobacco as strongly as the Centre Party does is that it increases the level of organised crime, with smuggling and other ways of getting access to those products. Does the Central Party not see that this will lead to an increase in organized crime in both tobacco and alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e541	All cases have both positive and negative effects, and it is of course such that we have a higher fee level for spirits in Norway than in some other countries, is one of the reasons why some try to smuggle alcohol here. But we have to have a customs service and a police officer who works actively to counteract it – we have to do that for all men. We believe it has been important that Norway has a higher level of alcohol charges than many other countries, because alcohol has a high social cost. What we put into our alternative budget is a reversal of part of the tax reliefs that came on spirits during the Bondevik II administration, because then they chose to reduce brandy fees quite a lot. We have thought that it was too much, and that it was unwise, and we therefore want to have a slightly higher fee on spirits than what has been proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e546	So the line change is over. This year, the tax system has resulted in little noise and political dissatisfaction. The main reason for this is two-fold: as a result, few changes are proposed, and most of the proposals that deal with large sizes are a purely follow-up to a broad agreement on the tax system, among others. reduced tax rates and the re-introduction of tax on shares in the property tax. These are changes that Left supports the whole heart, which is good for business and jobs. The left considers it beneficial to have made major changes to the tax system this year. We had wanted a clearer green tax change – with emphasis on shifts. In particular, less taxes and taxes on labour, employment and Norwegian business should have been given a stronger priority. This increases the possibilities to secure and create new jobs and make it easier and more profitable to make green choices, both in everyday life and in the boardroom. The left has a tax scheme that would promote them with low and medium incomes better. All with income of between NOK 200000 and NOK 600000 would receive a tax relief of between NOK 2500 and NOK 1500, while all with income of more than DKK 800000 would pay more in taxes – a fairer tax system, and purchasing power and free trade would increase. One could have taken green choices more easily, which would have saved climate tax expenditure today, either a switch to a car with lower emissions, an increment in the world, or other cost-saving changes in the everyday life. The left also proposes several changes that make it more profitable to create and invest in jobs and businesses. Increased depreciation rates and exemption from employer charges for start-ups with fewer than five employees are targeted measures to create more jobs in the private sector. The left will equal self-employed workers and employees in the tax system. With today's tax system, a self-employed person with income between 300000 and 600000 DKK pays systematically about 30 000 more in taxes than one that is added with the same salary. All of them are actions that will have a monthly permanent employment effect, but unfortunately not get more today. And then I'm very pleased with – and commend everyone for it – that there's a large majority in the room today for the Left's proposal to use tax incentives to make it more attractive for private investment in start-ups. Everything at the conclusion of the tax settlement took the left hand hand hand over the financial tax arrangements. We fear that the arrangements either caused costs to be passed on to consumers through more expensive insurance and loans, or that there was a system that made private jobs, especially in the districts, more expensive. Fear turned out, unfortunately, to be very justified. The majority in the Chamber, which consists of the Labour Party and the Government Party, today are working together to make jobs and district work places in a very important industry 5 pst. more expensive and penalises Norwegian financial institutions employing Norwegian labour, compared to competitors who also have outsourced jobs abroad. Given that the business community itself has come up with a model that will give the same income to the treasury, but that instead of taxing jobs more tax surpluses actually, this is hard to understand. Also, of course, the left is not immune to the argument that this model poses a certain risk of ESA approval, but in view of what follows the model the majority adopted today, has a central nourishment, the left is however more than willing to take the chance that the model we have proposed to smoke, and the same as the industry suggests, stands out well. I have to say that I think it is a sincere pity that the majority has not agreed today, and that the majority has made the ESA care more than the care of so important Norwegian jobs. In rare cases, three letters - ESA - seem to have stood more in the way of reason than when the new financial tax is added today. Finally, I would like to endorse what Mr Syversen said on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, on page 83. I argued that the words ‘and propose’ – or suggest, it is well called in that language – would be struck, and the Left would also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e569	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e574	Now we're on the containment side of the budget, and the left was outside, among other things. in today's business already the day after the budget agreement was in port, and said that they felt that the proposals for containment were very unwise and would have wanted this to be done in a different way. In the newspaper on December 12, there is one thing that, among other things, deals with the financial tax that Terje Breivik is now talking about. There, Breivik says: ‘We will not vote in favour of the government’s model subsidiary.’ The entire tax regime of the government includes this financial tax. Does that mean that Left and Breivik will vote against the entire government's tax regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e587	The last question I almost don't want to answer, given the voice arrangement that has now been agreed between the fraction leaders in the hall today. If I understand the representative of Wickholm that the Labour Party is not involved in such a scheme, I am going to draw up a new post, make an explanation of vote, and vote against that part of the tax scheme that accompanies the financial tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e592	The Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors do not allow voting on parts of the government’s tax arrangements. It's completely from the government, with a frame where you have to have coverage for the whole, so it's a little bit unclear to me how the left at any time would have wanted to show resistance to just this part. I'm not getting quite clear about it. Does the Left and the representative, Mr Breivik, now recommend that we really vote against the entire tax regime of the government, where the government's financial tax model forms an important part? Reservoirs to parts of that arrangement are not permitted, at least as this representative understands the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e597	I can reassure the representative, Mr Wickholm, that the Left will vote for his financial tax model, which is a model that goes into the concrete outcome, not to punish Norwegian jobs, as the representative, Mr Wickholm, is going to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e602	I cannot see that there is a proposal for an overall tax and tax model for which it is acceptable to vote, where the Left's proposal for a financial tax is part of it, and where the whole framework of the budgetary agreement is covered by the Left's financial tax model. If you agree with the general arrangement of the government, that is what will be the Norwegian tax and tax law from 1 January. Whatever you have to vote for in addition to this, it will not affect the reality that it is the framework for the proposal you are voting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e607	I think it is quite unlikely that the representative from the largest party on Stortinget will make the replacement of the lines a question of 'technicities', meaning that the party itself will clearly not stand for what they primarily mean in this matter. And if that's what I think, that Wickholm, as I see it as a fractional leader in this context, goes away from the voice arrangement that we've agreed with the presidency to get a faster exit, I'm drawing here and now for a new 3-minute post to make a voice explanation on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e612	In this debate, the government parties have been criticised for reductions in the tax on private ownership, both in this budget and in what we have done over time. At the same time, government parties are criticised for not giving enough tax deductions quickly enough for start-ups, but for looking at the consequences of this. We are criticized for this when we join the proposal. But my question to the Left is basically the same as I had to the Christian People's Party: How does the Left view the future conditions for Norwegian private ownership on the tax side when we take a look at this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e617	I agree with what I read that is implicitly behind the question from the representative Fleet, that if there is an area we could do more to benefit, even during this period, and that we should undoubtedly give priority to the next period, it is the extra tax on Norwegian owners who own axles in Norwegian companies. So there's probably the left and the party that the fleet representative represents, very much the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e622	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e627	The last line change between the representative Fleet and the representative Breivik illustrates some of the problem of the approach to Norwegian tax policy on the right: they deal with any case of paying more tax in Norway than in some other countries, which is extra taxation – and that is based on an idea that all people, all actors, all employees and all business owners are purely gay economics, which only serves as a basis for taxing where they choose to be in this world. Of course, it doesn't work that way. The whole of the Norwegian model is a good example of Norway being an attractive country for business, working in, living and living in, precisely because it has a wide and good welfare offer and a good infrastructure — all that is needed to run a good business, including a highly educated population. Exercising tax competition with other countries will not make Norway a more attractive country. What is going to make Norway a more attractive country is to hold on to all the sides of Norway that make us one of the best countries in the world to engage in business. In this budget, we propose a shift in tax policy to create better distribution among people and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We suggest lowering taxes on work, while proposing tax increases on wealth, inheritance and property. This will redistribute the values of society and lead to a fairer tax. Most people will benefit from this conversion, including environmental taxes, which we can also show with concrete computational examples. Norway is a country with small differences relatively, but inequalities are increasing. We got that illustrated last night with new numbers from the SSB. The ten richest households in Norway own half of all net worth, and 74 of the 100 richest in Norway are heirs. They have inherited their wealth, they have not worked for it, which you would think when you listen to the rhetoric of the Right Party and the Advance Party. At the same time, more people are struggling to make ends meet, and the number of children in poor families is growing. The number increased by nearly 5000 in 2015 only. Many of these warned against the presentation of the first state budget to the Minister of Finance. We were not listened to, and now we have the fasitism – unfortunately. The price growth in the housing market is, on the other hand, so high that many people are not able to meet their housing dream, and thus a good Norwegian tradition is at stake, and it is ideal that everyone should be able to own their own home. An A- and B-layer is created between those inside the housing market and those outside. Young people who cannot get financial help from their parents find it increasingly difficult to get into the housing market, and those in the housing market who have had to take on very high debts to buy their own home are rightly concerned about what might happen if prices are corrected. The IMF says that the Norwegian housing market is at least 40 pst. the overprice. It is very serious and meets with minimal efforts by the government. We therefore propose in this budget large reductions in taxes on ordinary and low incomes, while increasing the tax on the highest incomes and wealth. The tax system must make it more profitable to work, not more profitable to inherit. We're proposing to increase the wealth tax, we're increasing the rates back to what they were in 2013, and in addition, we're making the wealth tax progressive. Today's tax system for housing is designed in such a way that with the most expensive housing and many dwellings, they have far greater tax advantages than most people. The public spends a total of 24 billion. NOK in 2016 on these benefits, even when we collect municipal property taxes and the document fee. This helps to fuel the growth of housing prices even more. The system rewards the richest and punishes those who are outside the housing market. SV suggests an alternative model that most people will earn. We propose to reintroduce preferential taxes on housing, thereby increasing the tax on housing and leisure property. On the other hand, we use revenue — and more — to lower the tax on labour, so that this tax is more than compensated. In the distribution table in our tax structure, everyone can see how this affects different income groups, and it shows that the vast majority, more specifically 3.3 million Norwegians, will benefit from this conversion. In particular, the housing market will also become a more social housing market of this conversion. Finally, SV believes that it must cost more to pollute, but it must be done in a way that is socially fair. That is why we are proposing an increase in environmental taxes where we use the revenues from increased environmental taxes to reduce taxes on ordinary and low income. In this way, we can create a charging system that really wants to cut greenhouse gas emissions, while at the same time most people are on the team. We have more faith in carrot than the government has, which has rather chosen whip.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e649	SV proposes in its budget for 2017 to increase the CO2 tax by 50 pst., increase the user’s tax on petrol by 50 øre ln and increase the user’s tax on diesel by 1 kr per litre in addition to the government’s proposal. In its alternative budget, SV has the heading: for most people. Norway is a long country, and according to the Central Statistical Bureau one out of five residents lives outside town or town. Many depend on using a car. Yes, in many families, one depends on two cars to make the everyday life go around. With the charging policy of SV, people are penalised financially for living and working in the districts. The question is: is SV just a party for urban areas, which can benefit from collective transport solutions in everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e657	Let's first take a look at a family of two children. Let's say they both make 400,000 kroner each, they own their own home, and they have two diesel cars that they both drive on average in Norway. That's a lot. They'll be left with $5,363 extra with our budget proposal, including the increase in the tax on housing, because we're not spending billions on lowering the tax on those who are the richest. Secondly, we set up the one-off fee so that it pays to choose environmentally friendly. Thirdly, we have a more district friendly profile because we want to change the airline passenger fee so that it takes into account precisely those parts of the country where you don't have a good alternative to aircraft. And fourthly, we've proposed a municipal scheme where we're increasing municipal income by 6 billion. and thus allows for a completely different welfare offer and a completely different attractiveness to live, work and create jobs in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e664	The representative Serigstad Valen is definitely a well-worded spokesperson on behalf of his party, sometimes almost an agitator, I would say, and then I don't necessarily add anything negative to it. But the representative Serigstad Valen has on several occasions attacked the Workers' Party in terms of the profile of their tax arrangements, and not least the distribution effects. So my question is: does the representative Serigstad Valen think that the Workers' Party has left the consensus that the Workers' Party and SV had in the previous government in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e675	I would like to thank you for your compliment and give it back: The Seven is a well-defined and good committee leader. As for the Workers' Party and the distribution profile, I want to use a ski jump metaphor: a year ago, the Workers' Party was Eddie the Eagle, who didn't jump pretty or far. Now, with its alternative state budget for this year, the Workers' Party is rather Espen Bredesen before the World Cup in Falun 1993: the style has become very good, they land at 20, but they still don't jump far enough. Expressing the willingness to increase the level of taxes on wealth back to 2013 is a very positive development of the Workers' Party. I still believe that their stock tax creates a very unfortunate distribution profile compared to when we crashed the country together. But now we're halfway around, and I have good faith that with a stronger SV after the big shot next year, we're going to be able to negotiate a good and redistributive tax arrangement for most people, which makes those who have the most contribute more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e684	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e689	The government has provided a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. Tax policy reflects this, even after the budgetary union with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Norwegian economy is within a period of conversion. Although growth is on its way up, it is too early to report the Norwegian economy. The situation of many people and businesses, particularly in the south and west, remains challenging. Uncertainty about having a job to go to is bad for those who are affected and for their families. Therefore, the main goal of the government is to have as much as possible a safe job to go to. In addition to a targeted package of measures for those areas that need it most, the government with its budget for the year provides the basis for the transformations of the economy we are going to undergo in the years that come. Priority should then be given to measures that increase the growth capacity of the economy and strengthen the private sector. We must be in the forefront of changes in the tax system that stimulate increased investment and growth in the mainland economy. Good changes in the tax system complement extensive investments in transport, innovation, research and education. The tax reform to which the majority of the Storting agreed in this respect is the most important structural policy measure for creating new jobs. In the 2017 tax package, we follow up on the tax reform agreement. The budgetary agreement does not go along with this. It will contribute to the predictability and stability of business. The tax reform involves primarily lower taxes on companies, but at the same time we lower taxes on ordinary people and make it more profitable to work. In the budget of the year, the general income tax rate for persons and companies is reduced from 25 to 24 pst and will be further reduced to 23 pst. in 2018. At the same time as the tax on ordinary income is reduced, a valuation discount is introduced in the property tax on shares and operating resources of 10 p.m. from 2017. The discount shall be increased to 20 pst. in 2018. The valuation of liabilities attributable to shares and operating funds shall be reduced accordingly. This facilitates the tax on wealth and makes it more attractive for Norwegian investors to invest in industrial activities. The property tax inhibits private Norwegian ownership because it only affects Norwegian owners and can weaken investment in enterprises dependent on Norwegian capital. Strong Norwegian industrial ownership is important, not least in demanding economic times. In addition, in order to provide liquidity assistance to Norwegian owners, a deferred payment scheme for property taxes on shares is introduced. Some companies are struggling with funding to maintain their activity during demanding times. This scheme helps these owners so that they do not have to take money out of the business to pay taxes on wealth. This allows several enterprises to maintain their activity and maintain their jobs. A majority of the Stortinget has decided to introduce a financial tax from 2017. The background is that the financial industry is exempt from VAT. This exemption creates unfortunate distortions in the production and consumption of financial services, and the exemption favours internal production since purchases from others are subject to VAT. The government's proposal for a financial tax is a tax on the added value of financial services. Value added consists of both wages and profits. The government proposes that the financial tax should be applied to both these tax bases. The government has provided significant relief in corporate tax, which has also benefited the financial industry. In addition, the value of the VAT exemption currently enjoyed by the industry will remain significantly higher than the financial tax. I am pleased that the government parties and the Workers' Party are joining the government's proposal today. The government's parties opted to reduce taxes and taxes. We believe that most people should keep more of their own money and freedom to decide more about their own income. It will stimulate to work more. When companies receive tax reductions, it strengthens their competitiveness and stimulates investment and growth in the economy. With the budget agreement, total taxes and taxes have been reduced by about 21 billion. kr since the government took over the autumn of 2013. They have benefited the vast majority of taxpayers, both individuals and businesses. About 96 pst. personal taxpayers receive tax relief or approximately unchanged tax as a result of the tax changes for 2017 under the budgetary agreement. The Labour Party in this Chamber is constantly trying to present the government's tax reliefs as if these benefit only the richest and most prosperous. That's not right. With this government, a normal family has received over NOK 8 000 in tax bills. When the Workers' Party tries to present it as small money for a family, I think a lot of families would disagree with it. What would be the option with the Working Party at the rudder? This will be made clear in their draft budget for the coming year. The Workers' Party's alternative involves a tax tightening of over 10 billion. kr. The model of the Workers' Party means an increase in car drivers' taxes, an increase in taxes on ordinary people and on business, which have to pay more of the income of the State's fund rather than investing in new jobs. A desire for lower taxes is often heard when traveling and meeting businesses and people. I have never met a demand to increase taxes. Increased taxes and taxes are not what we need at a time when many have lost their jobs and some of our most important industries are in a very difficult time. Increased taxes and taxes will no longer create jobs. Let me also be quite clear that the government's tax relief is not at the expense of strengthening the public welfare offer. This government has used 14 pst. of our increased scope for action on tax reductions. Only 4 pst. of this room of action has gone to a reduction in the taxes on wealth, and I agree with each and every penny in relief. The rest of the space for action has been used to strengthen well-being, research, education and the provision of important infrastructure. And the policy has produced results: the waiting times go down, the maintenance run on the roads go down, there are more policemen, several thousand teachers have received continuing training. Under the red-green government, taxes increased by 6 billion. kr. Despite the increased health cows, the cows were long, the maintenance run on the roads increased, and the research was put at rest. This government is serious about the fact that most people and businesses are going to keep more of their own money, and it is also adding up the tax and tax package for 2017. The government is strengthening well-being today and securing Norway for the future. Green tax change is an important part of the consensus with the cooperative parties. The general CO2 tax is increased to 450 kr per tonne of CO2 for a number of greenhouse gas emissions. This provides a more cost-effective climate policy. Overall, the green tax shift makes a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The much-mentioned package of cars is fixed and ensures that increased fuel charges are more than matched by relief to the drivers. The annual fee is reduced, the toll rate outside the big cities goes down, and the rate of the commuting discount is rising. Those who do not have alternatives to the car must still be able to drive a car to work, school and kindergarten without going too hard on the family economy. Several places in our long-distance country are busses, trams, trains and trams not available alternatives, and we also need to respect that when designing a budget that affects everyday life for most people across the country. I will not hide that it has been a demanding harvest, but the result is good. I would like to stress that the tax arrangements we are discussing here today are well suited for Norway to tackle the challenges it faces in both the short and the long term. This is how we take Norway safely through the long-term transitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e719	We have been presented with a budgetary settlement that is backed by four parties. It's a budgetary settlement that has a cost side -- a cost page that we've seen that all the parties are encircled, with an impact of different character for the different parties -- and then it also has a containment page. And now we're in the slightly special situation that there's been uncertainty in the hall about whether all the four settlement parties are actually behind the whole containment proposal, and then that's the financial tax I'm aiming at. So we don't know every now whether all four parties are going to stand behind when we get to voting. That is the way it was made clear in the last line change, that there is only one proposal for a framework for voting, and I wonder what the Minister of Finance's idea of this uncertainty is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e724	I assume that the Storting has arranged its own voting arrangements. So it's the Storting and the Financial Committee that have given up, and it's the Storing that's going to vote for this, not the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e729	But it is true that the Minister of Finance, together with the Prime Minister, has publicly presented a budgetary settlement for which all four parties must stand and take responsibility, and that is both the cost side and the coverage side of the settlement. When we then stand in the main hall and actually don't know very soon before voting whether all four parties are behind this, there must also be some thoughts from the Minister of Finance about how strongly this agreement stands. And I would like to encourage the Minister of Finance to answer the question of what she thinks about the uncertainty that now arises around the discovery of this settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e734	I assume that all four parties to the cooperation agree with the agreement that has been concluded and that, based on it, votes are given in the storeroom that takes full account of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e740	In the case of financial taxes, there is, of course, agreement in the Storting to look further at the scheme of this tax, also because a sample has been set up to address tax issues relating to the publicly owned financial institutions. In this respect, I know that a working group has been set up, it is well, and the industry itself is now asking that they be included in that work. So my question is, Is that a request the Minister of Finance will comply with? And in what way, if any, will the industry that is so affected by this be included in the work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e745	I have noted the Committee's comments on assessing the financial tax regime and will, of course, follow it up. And as we also point out, a working group, led by Professor Erling Hjelmeng, is set up, among other things. assess how public and private actors can be more equal in tax matters. Once the Hjelmeng Group has completed its work in 2018, it facilitates a reassessment of EEA-related issues related to financial taxation on profits. We will then also be able to assess the need for further action both against artificial profit movements and the improvement of existing rules, and we can also make a preliminary assessment of how the financial tax has worked in 2017. I can reassure the representative of the Syversen that the government and the finance minister have a close and ongoing dialogue with the financial industry both on this and on many other issues affecting the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e752	Finance Minister Siv Jensen and representatives from the government parties have been very busy talking about commuting deductions in the autumn, and it is nice that they finally found out that it can be a good tool for people who have a long way to work. But the story that the government has is amazing, because during the first budgets the government has completed, a commuter who commutes six miles, got NOK 3 206 more in taxes, and then the government returns NOK 80. Then my question to the Minister of Finance is: Does the Minister of Finance honestly think that a return of 80 kroner is something special to boast of?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e757	I believe that all the grips the government has made over these years have helped to strengthen everyone who is dependent on transport in their everyday lives, whether they are driving a car or depending on other means of getting their job done. As a result, the government has made a major effort to strengthen its transport investments and reduce the maintenance run, which increased under the government of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum. So overall, we've reduced taxes by 21 billion. kr. It stands in stark contrast to the Centerparte's own proposal, which in 2017 sharpens the taxes by billions of dollars. So I have noticed during the debate that the Battle of Vedum and the Central Party have, in a very short period of time, taken completely opposite positions to what was in their alternative budget for the current year, both in terms of financial taxes, and – not least – in terms of fuel taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e764	The Minister of Finance spoke of operating an effective climate policy. In order to do so, it is necessary to take the view that man-made climate change is a problem. But the now-returned Carl I. Hagen, who is now a great candidate for the Oslo Progress Party, has allied himself to a proposal to reject the man-made climate change with a total of seven representatives of the Progress Party Group. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, what is the point of an effective climate policy if you don't believe that the dangerous climate change is man-made in the first place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e771	I am dealing with the adopted Party programme of the Advance Party, I am dealing with the Government Platform, and I am dealing with the agreements negotiated with the Advance Party's help. This means that for the next year too, we will have many cost-effective climate measures that will be good for the Norwegian economy, for our ability to convert and for Norwegian business. And again: I assume that cost-effective measures are significantly better use of resources than alternatives. For this reason, the government has focused on making changes in the tax area that we believe are accurate, together with the other use of a wide range of instruments in climate and environmental policy, which will facilitate a green shift also in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e776	Yesterday we got new numbers from the SSB that show a marked jump in the development of differences between people when it comes to income and wealth – actually the strongest increase we've had since the last Right put in government. The figures also show that with the highest wealth, they now own an increasing proportion of the total wealth in Norway. So, of course, there are several factors that help explain why the inequalities are increasing. But what I wonder if the Minister of Finance could be willing to share some thoughts about is whether she acknowledges that the government's tax policy through this period is at least part of the explanation of the developments that we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e781	Let me first say that the differences in Norway are disappearing small compared to the developments in many other countries in the world. There is one development that I think most parties in this room agree that we should take care of. Then, of course, the tax system also matters. The main redistributive effect of our tax system is that we have tax-funded welfare schemes, which are largely universal, and which are largely designed to benefit people when they need them. Then I understand that the Workers' Party continues to fight for an increased wealth tax, but I also realize – through the contributions of Wickholm – that it is important for the Workers' Party to create the impression that some form of recognition has entered the Workers' Party that the wealth tax has unfortunate sides. So now you've tried to adjust it, so you can sell it out as pretty good for ordinary people, but it's a fact that today's property tax differs between Norwegian-owned companies in Norway and foreign-owned companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e793	This is a debate on the tax system, but I want to start a little bit wider than that. Before the 2013 elections, we saw a Prime Minister's candidate who was talking about breathing in and out of breath about making Norway less oil dependent, about conversion, and about tougher priorities. The question of how to finance annual billions in tax cuts was blown off with flakes of creating more, not more taxes and bureaucracy. No one told the Norwegian people that the plan was to finance the tax cuts of the most prosperous among us by going directly into the pension fund. It's not being created anymore. The bureaucracy is growing, it's not slimming. Prioritisation is completely absent, and those who have a lot will get the most. So this is going to give dynamic effects that we've never seen in any other country that's tried on the same type of recipe. There is little memory of the alleged accountability of the Right in this. This cannot continue either. The national budget announces an abrupt halt. In the years ahead, pension expenditure will increase by 11 billion. kr annually – every year. Demographic costs take 4 billion. kr. The long-term plan shall be escalated by a few billion each year. To spring we're going to roll the national transport plan, and not that I'm going to shoot any things at all, but we can well assume that there will also be significant escalations there. At the same time, the national budget says that if the deficit does not continue to increase, as it has done every year with this government, we can phase in about 4 billion. extra oil crowns in the years coming – 4 billion. kr, against an average of 25 for the government that has now ruled. 25 is, by the way, the exact number of tax billions that are cut. It is in this form that fiscal policy must be seen. This is for most people just small sums that are not noticed in everyday life. The fees have gone up. And even though representatives of the government parties often say they're getting tired of us saying that, it's at the top of the income and wealth distribution these cuts have mattered. That's the truth, and that's why it has to be said. Our alternative arrangement is a plan for better distribution. For people with income less than 600,000 kroner, there is hardly any change, on average small reliefs. For those with income between 600000 and 1 million. kr is less than one hundred kroner per month. They are the ones with big fortunes that have to contribute the most. Then we have a scheme that follows up the sensible tax conversion for business that we agreed on in the tax settlement. This means joining a cut in corporate tax, making it more profitable to invest in jobs in Norway, and increasing the dividend tax – that is, a distortion from taxes on capital that is on the holding and contributes to the bottom line, and on capital that is collected from the enterprise. I would also like to mention that with sustained low power prices and a great need to reinvest in Norwegian hydropower plants, we are concerned about the ability of hydropower plants to finance it. We support what is in the tax settlement that the rent tax should be adjusted up, while the corporation tax should be adjusted down, but we propose to increase the free amount of the land interest tax. Part of the tax settlement was – at the initiative of the Workers' Party – to increase the shielding deduction, and the amount of the free should be raised from the same logic. It is also worth mentioning here that the renewable hydropower operates at a much lower level of the free amount than the petroleum industry does. A few words about the charging scheme: We have set behind us a political harvest in which the climate debate has been reduced to focus on a few ears in fuel taxes that hardly have the effect of climate change. It has been serious in a number of ways, firstly because the entire budgetary procedure has been wasted in that way, but most of all because there has hardly been any debate about what kind of action needs to be taken, among other things. in the transport sector, if we are to deliver on our climate commitments – and we will. With our alternative budget, we have presented a plan for achieving the emission targets. We point to sectors, to what concrete actions are to be implemented, and we base our calculations on the best expertise available. The transport sector is the key. We have to go through a radical transformation of the whole sector, and it also bears our mark on the charging system. People shouldn't move less, the goal is not that people stop taking the car ride to the cabin. The goal is a total shift of technology. Then the decision about what kind of car people buy is important. For us, the goal is that there should only be zero-emission cars in sale from 2025, seriously meant. It will require that we continue to use the charging system actively, make sure that the charges contribute to making the zero-emission cars competitive. Then tax reliefs for fossil cars are a completely wrong place to start. We propose a conversion of the one-off fee that stimulates more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly choices by increasing the CO2 and NOx components. So it's important that we have a one-off fee that promotes actual emission cuts. It is now, in our opinion, too strongly favouring heavy hybrids with low battery capacity. Hybrids are good, for all things, and they have an important role to play in a transition between fossil cars and zero-emission cars, but the deduction must reflect how far they can actually go on battery. I am pleased that the conciliation has a proposal that goes in the same direction as the Labour Party's proposals in that area. We have also had a round of Tesla-debate this fall, and I have no problem defending the tax advantage that the most expensive cars have had. It's about stimulating a technological breakthrough. It's been absolutely necessary. But now there are several reasonable cars with a long reach that are on their way into the market, and the reason why the most expensive models with all of the extra equipment have to have a similar level of tax-advantage as before has become smaller. That is why we are proposing a tax ceiling. Then there's a couple of specific suggestions that I have to bring in. First, to proposal No. 2, where there have been requests from both the Christian People's Party and the Left to delete the words 'and propose'. Then it is announced that the Left and Christian People's Party can join, and that is what we are prepared to meet. Then there has been a special situation in the hall, where there has been uncertainty about whether all the lots that are part of the budget agreement are actually behind the overall tax and tax arrangements. This is mainly the impact of the budgetary agreement, which is the containment side of the state budget. This is special. We have used a voting system in previous tax and tax procedures, in which all the parties have finally agreed behind the proposal for a framework, i.e. behind the vote. But given the situation that has now arisen, where we do not know if it is actually such that all the four settlement parties stand behind the settlement proposal for containment, we cannot base that voting order. So I'm now notifying, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that we are going to vote against the vote. Overall, our tax and tax arrangements are a good one. It follows on from the tax settlement — significant changes to ensure that investing in jobs in Norway becomes more profitable. At the same time, it ensures a level of income that is appropriate for Norway in the years to come, which enables us to better manage the major tasks facing us as a society, to tackle the pension costs ahead of us, to tackle population growth, to reduce the deficit in the state budget, and at the same time to make the necessary reinforcements of important areas of well-being. It is a charging scheme that supports our climate policy, which will help to stimulate the technology shift that we are also making through the expenditure side of our alternative budget, and which will not least contribute to smaller differences between people. It will contribute to better distribution, and we need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e829	There is a broad political consensus that tax is an important instrument for achieving the positive goals we have for development in our society. We have a lot of common resources to finance, and we have a lot of ways to do it. Taxes on wealth, income and industrial activities form a major and important part of the financing. Nevertheless, despite a tax settlement entered into, there is a political disagreement about the mechanism and the level of taxes, but that we need an effective system, there is a consensus on that. There's reason in this context to dwell a moment on this. It is beyond doubt that we have an effective tax system and a tax rate that has developed good practical solutions for taxpayers. Together with our transparency on these issues, it helps to create confidence in the taxation itself and its necessity. It is also important that the tax base is as broad as possible, that there is equal treatment between industries and businesses, and not least that the tax itself is at a level that is considered reasonable. If the level and trust in the system are present, we will avoid evasion and tax failure being the result. The government and the majority of the population have reduced the overall tax and tax burden by about 18 billion. kr. And with the 2017 budget, the relief will be another 2.8 billion. kr. It is relatively large amounts, but relative to the total budgets of the corresponding period, the facilitations are relatively moderate, but in line with the promises made before the 2013 elections. It's said that we live by each other's work. That as much work as possible is therefore important. Employment varies from time to time, and at present there are too many out of the labour force — particularly in the West and in oil-related industries. The need for short-term action is important, but the most important thing is to create new jobs, and not least to secure those we already have. Developments in the private sector are central to increasing employment. Tax policy is essential to achieve this. We rely on private individuals to run businesses and create new ones. Measures such as reducing company tax to 24 p.m. is important. That the dividend tax does not increase significantly and that the protection rate is increased by 0.5 pst. is a small but important step in the right direction – and not least a reduction in the taxes on wealth. This latter seems to be the area in which there is a great deal of political disagreement. The Workers' Party and the Centre's comments once again refer to the Menon report, which allegedly states that cuts in the property tax have no bearing on the investments of the companies. That the Norwegian property tax is unfair because, among other things, it: only Norwegian owners are affected by the fact that only Norway has such a special tax and that, in the event of the necessary dividend payments to be used for tax purposes, it is a factor that is totally ignored. When this is said, I have a feeling that there is actually a cross-political perception that there are several weak aspects to the taxation of private ownership. The fact that the property tax was to be paid even for companies with a deficit has partly been met by a proposal to defer the payment – a measure that has received broad support. Similarly, the government announced in the tax communication that the property tax targeted at industrial capital could be reduced by a so-called valuation discount for shares and operating assets. Here is the proposal for a discount of 10 pst. in 2017 and 20 pst. in 2018. This is a small but important step towards facilitating the taxes on wealth on working capital. And most importantly, it is proposals that have broad political support, and it is a recognition that the wealth tax has negative aspects for private ownership. Private ownership and saving are important for a modern society. It should be an objective for more individuals to invest in employment and business. At a time when traditional banking offers little return, it is positive that the government has proposed the introduction of a so-called share savings account — a perhaps small measure, but it can give a greater scope to investment and increase the ownership of small-scale savings in Norwegian private enterprises. This could lead to growth and job creation in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e847	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e852	I am pleased today that the Workers' Party will have a majority in favour of the proposal on tax incentives for investment in start-up companies. This was a proposal that was part of the tax settlement, but that government presented to the Stortinget, we felt too bad. That's why we want the process back on the rails, as the comments say. I also record that the Left Jubilee, but that this was not an important enough case for a person to get it in place in the agreement. I hope that the Left too is pleased that the Committee was able to deal with this. What the Storting demands today is that the government deliver concrete, fully explored models in the revised national budget next year. These are schemes with which Sweden and the United Kingdom have had great success. They have made it clear what we also need to do in Norway, to move capital investment from housing to new jobs – creating new jobs. One has been able to make available the necessary capital to start-ups. What the Workers' Party hopes is that we can evaluate a Norwegian model that meets the Norwegian challenges, and it is good that the Ministry of Finance should now investigate and look at this. From the committee's point of view, the Right Party and the Advance Party were opposed, today they are fortunately in favour. It was a clever turnaround in the count's time. The working party has experienced this week that turning operations can cause some noise, but that's right, we've learned, and also that one admits wrong when one does. The swindling of the Right and Advance Party today unfortunately seems a little bit half-hearted. It is underlined in the Chamber and in the debate today by the representatives of the fleet. The rhetoric of the Right stresses the ideological blind-tracked government is now on, where the property tax is the only solution to absolutely all questions. The reality is that this cut doesn't create new jobs, it's primarily a help to Right rich uncles. Tax incentives may be more accurate. The experience from the United Kingdom and Sweden shows this. I hope that the government will do the thorough job that Stortinget demands and asks them to do, and looks forward to getting the concrete and completed models on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e863	I am very pleased that a large majority today decide to introduce a share savings account. However, in my view, there are unfortunately two shortcomings in the share savings account that are being adopted today. One – and the most important – is that dividends from shares and fund shares held in the share-saving account do not enter the account but are allocated directly to the shareholder and taxed as usual on vesting. This is contrary to establishing an investment company and organising it as a limited liability company. Then the dividend is not taxed until the shareholder continues to pay the dividend on a personal basis. If the aim is to increase the ownership of small companies in Norwegian companies, I am unfortunately afraid that this discrimination will make the share savings account considerably less attractive. For me, it is incomprehensible why the government parties are not involved in the Workers' Party's proposal to include dividends in the scheme. I wish we would open up investments in unlisted shares. It would be an important contribution to distorting saving for most people from house, cabins and property to value-creating businesses around the country. I believe it would be an important contribution to increasing the opportunities for start-up companies to bring with them investors. It would also be good for the conversion that the country needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e872	Proposition contains an explanation of the tax-free scheme. It is known as a result of a call for proposals from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in 2014 to have the Vinmonopolet take over the tax-free regime. Today, there is a great deal of excitement about the monopoly of wine in the people. The monopoly of wine has an important social role in the sale and marketing of alcoholic beverages. The wine monopoly system is an effective means of preventing alcohol-related damage and problems, but the wine monopoly system in Norway is under constant pressure, among others. of the tax-free hall. Much of the alcoholic drink consumed in Norway is purchased abroad or in tax-free shops. In 2014, consider approaching 10 pst. of the total alcoholic strength by way of the tax-free system. Government write in proposition: ‘The tax-free system contributes to increased availability and increased consumption of alcohol and tobacco, thereby contributing to socio-economic costs and negative impacts on public health’. It writes that the tax-free scheme also provides revenue for the state in the billion class, incentives for increased travel activity and competitive disadvantages for domestic negotiators. It also writes that moving an increasing proportion of alcohol sales to the tax-free hall could in the long run weaken the legitimacy of the wine monopoly. Decommissioning the tax-free arrangements could increase the surplus of the Vinmonopole, which can be used to increase the «geographical availability» of the Vinmonopole. It also says that those who use the tax-free scheme today are the ones who travel the most. There are middle-aged men with high education, bussets in Oslo and Akershus. There is no one today who is proposing to terminate the tax-free regime, but whether or not we should allow the Vinmonopole to take over. That's what I think is very important. In the proposition, the government has indicated a legal assessment of whether it is possible within the EEA and concludes that it: ‘most likely are not EEA or other international legal barriers to the extension of the exclusive right of the monopoly to tax free sales; [[...]] It also writes the following in the release: ‘To ensure that the overriding social and health considerations underlying the Norwegian alcohol policy are respected, and in particular that the monopoly system is not undermined, are considered to be duly justified’. It will be able to strengthen the foundations for the continuation of the Vinmonopol scheme. I want to thank the Left for turning around in this matter today, and that we are now getting a case to the Grand Duchy on the amendment of the law with a view to letting the Vinmonopole take over the tax-free hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e905	The Presidency had initially set up a voting system in this matter in line with tradition, in order to ensure that all primary positions were well taken care of. This voice mechanism, as I see it now, has the Labour Party chosen to deviate – and I'm reading between the lines – to force the Left to vote against its own position on the financial tax model. Games are obviously more important than standing for it as a mine. Unfortunately, the left must say from the speaker that we are no longer part of the vote when it comes to the proposal for Decision A, simply because the financial tax model contained in Decision A is not part of the agreement concluded with the Cooperation Party. I then ask that it be recorded that we are correcting the whole of A in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e912	I take the floor because I have a very strong need to be realistically oriented to the Minister of Finance, who is constantly working and commenting on waiting lists and health cows. One of the most powerful statements she had in the retro-debate on TV, where she said that during this government the health cows and waiting times went down, while they went up under the previous government. It is with respect not to report in line with the facts, to put it in a parliamentary expression. The fasitium comes here: in the statistics we can measure this, which are official, the waiting times in hospitals have fallen steadily from 2010 to today. I repeat: from 2010 until today. And that year isn't random, that's what the health care companies had to balance in their budgets again after we took over a hospital economy in total chaos in 2005. As if that wasn't enough, the government had introduced a roof on the number of treatments at the time – has the president heard it before? – which we actually removed in 2011, but as this government says it is those who have removed. In other words, waiting times have fallen from 2010 to today. So to 80,000 fewer in health queues – what are those kind of numbers? Yeah, if we're going to look at the official statistics, it's probably true, but what's now revealed by the Health Directorate, the Hospitals and the Medicine of the Day, is that the 80,000 plus 80,000 more have moved on internal lists in hospitals, where they go under the statistics radar. 160,000 patients stand and print, and do not receive treatment at the time they are to be treated. The whole story of waiting times and waiting lists is a story that doesn't match actual circumstances. I think it is simply unsustainable that both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance should operate and repeat this, despite the fact that more and more people now see what has been revealed about the issues related to health cows and waiting lists – they are not as these state councils and the Prime Minister tell. So now I hope that the Minister of Finance can moderate his statements and his stories on this topic, not for the sake of the Workers' Party, because we are informed about this, but for the sake of those she believes she represents, namely, the people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e923	Actually, I was going to take the word only to take up the SV's suggestion, because I forgot to do that in my post. It would have been unfortunate, so now I'm taking up our suggestions. So it might seem that there is a need for more explanation of vote. It is because, after a whole harvest of hard negotiations on the income side of the State budget, the Left warns that, as far as I understand, they will vote against A and thus the entire revenue side of the State budget. I have to say, it's very eye-catching. That means that all the matters left have been profiling to negotiate with the government, and agreed with the government, they intend to vote against. It also means that the Christian People's Party alone will ensure a majority of the government's tax cuts to the richest and the entire government's tax profile. If the Left intends to vote against the frame, that is, A below the Inn. 3 S for 2016-2017, I see no other possibility for SV than that we are of course voting against – if that vote is first in reality opened. Then I can add that we still consider our proposal for tax arrangements as promoted in the financial position and voted over in reality during the financial debate – just so it has been said for the sake of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e932	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e937	During the period 2005–2013, the government then had the largest economic space in the Norwegian government ever had. The economy was growing, and the oil price was historically high. Nevertheless, the number of patients in health queues increased; there were 15,000 more poor children, while the majority paid more in taxes. The whole increase in employment went to foreign labour, which according to LO's chief economist, Stein Reegård, forced the Nordics out of work. When the representative Truls Wickholm says that SSB's calculations on behalf of the Workers' Party show that more short-term activity can be created through public consumption than taxation, he therefore wants to continue this irresponsible policy. This government has managed the legacy of the Workers' Party in addition to the last year's migration challenge as well as an oil price in the free fall. Now let's see the points of light. Although the Labour Party claims that no jobs are created in Norway, new figures show that there have probably never been as many new establishments in Norway as in the last two years. With this government's policy, 110 000 new jobs have been registered in the private sector in two years, which is guaranteed to include, not to replace, Norwegian labour force and employment. The job of the future has already been created, not only in new jobs, but also in existing enterprises all over the country, how many are now turning to a new reality. All these establishments are located at the end of the tax bill of the Workers' Party. The representative of Truls Wickholm confirmed in his reply earlier today that 10 billion. kr just is the first year. The total tax increases with the Workers' Party will reach between 25 billion. kr and 32 br. kr, and that is before they have negotiated with SV. It's the last thing a business in transition needs. I think it's irresponsible to have a tax policy that increases the cost of Norwegian business and extends the time it takes to speed up economic growth and value creation that creates jobs for most people. And although it's interesting to have a tax competition between SV and the Workers' Party on lower taxes on pay for most people, it doesn't help much if people don't have a salary and a job to go to, because the same parties choose to suffocate private initiatives, investments and business with the bill for the same tax rate. The alternative budgets show that there is a great difference between the rhetoric of the Workers' Party and policy. They're criticizing us for 20 billion. kr in taxes, but keep half of the cuts. They complain loudly about the adverse effects of the air passenger charge, but they introduce it themselves without modification. They rushed against cuts in the strange holiday pay scheme for the recipients of the daily allowance. Now they cut it themselves. They called the removal of the inheritance tax usocial in 2013 but have not reinstated it in any of their alternative budgets. When the Workers' Party promised more money to the hospitals during the election campaign in 2013, it was because they would provide one million more treatments and investigations in 2017 than in 2012. That goal met the Right and Advance Party already in 2015. There is no contrast between tax relief and welfare. The right hand and the front-hand side manage both to reduce taxes and to reduce health cows at the same time. It has something to say about who controls – for growth, well-being and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e952	Following Mr Breivik's statement, I had to sign a slightly extended explanation of vote. So it was that yesterday we were presented with a proposal for a voting order in which all parties were to stand behind letter A. It was suggested to get to a simplified voting. We were willing to vote too much as we really are against, to get to this simplified voting, assuming it was not to be used against any parties. But when there is uncertainty about whether all the four parties that have entered into a budgetary settlement are actually involved in taking responsibility for the discovery of that settlement, it is not a matter of technicalities or games, as was said by the representative Breivik, then it is a matter of getting a political clarification. Then it's about clarifying political realities. In examining all the expenditure chapters in the budget, the Labour Party has voted against the framework proposals, while the Left and the other conciliation parties have voted in favour. So all the expenditure increases in this budget have been grouped together. We have now been given the prudent clarification that the Left will vote against the tax regime, and leave it to be a part of taking responsibility for the revenue side of the budget. As announced in my previous post, the Labour Party will vote against letter A, that is, the framework proposal, and that is a natural consequence of our alternative budget. We have promoted an alternative framework proposal in the context of the financial debate, but we assume that there is a majority in the Chamber for the proposed tax framework, although it is now possible to become a very sharp vote. I would also like to inform you that after that framework has been adopted, we are prepared to vote for the 4L setting, assuming that all parties do the same. Then we have adopted a framework. There has been a majority for a tax and tax side and a tax and tax structure, and then we are prepared to vote for 4 L and the legislative acts that are needed to make that framework go up, but then assuming that all parties do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e961	The President now understands it so that the Labour Party will vote in favour of the framework in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox It will also mean...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e967	We are voting against the frame of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e972	This means that we have to change the voting order – that's what the President is trying to say, if the President continues – and that we are voting on case no. 2 first.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e977	The last comment from the President is quite correct, this must go hand in hand. This is going to be technically very fast. Letter A, which sounds very dependable, is, after all, the entire coverage of the entire state budget. That's area 21 we have to decide on. We have discussed 20 other framework areas and each time representatives from the Left have said that we have now been able to see through to you, now that we have had a lot of collective effort, now that we've got a lot of work to do in school, now that we've got different measures, and then that comes to the day when we're going to settle the bill – no, you shouldn't be involved. That's not the way to rule a country. You have to be for, or you have to be brave. I remember very well that Saturday evening when there were four party leaders in a row and row. They were very proud: look, we can control. See, we can stand together. We have once again reached a budgetary agreement. Long, long overtime – where all the deadlines had been broken, there had been chaos for weeks, we had not had a single proper procedure in the Financial Committee, not one proper discussion. But then you'd like to say, "Yes, the four of us can do it." Then you've tried to get through the budget debates, you've boasted of round after round, and when you get to the end point, you don't agree anyway. Then you have to vote against the tax regime. You have to vote against customs revenue. It's completely incomprehensible. It must be the greatest mistrust a representative can show to the government when one fails at the last turn. I understand that the Left does not trust today's government, but I think it is a very strange way to work that you are on all credit and do not agree to take the payment. We in the Center Party are also going to vote against letter A and all of the sub-decisions that lie there, and we want the same voting system as the Workers' Party in terms of 4 L. Then the parties responsible must take responsibility. The left is responsible for the expenditure that this country has incurred and that they have voted in favour of, all of the 20 framework areas, and that is also the responsibility to finance it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e986	There has actually been a rather dramatic situation during this debate and forward to this voting. It turns out that the budget agreement applies to all expenditure chapters, but does not apply when the bill comes on the table. It is easy and certainly nice for the Left to join in adding for good purposes in many different areas. It turns out to be hard to vote when the bill finally comes on the table. The voting order to which it was added was justified by the fact that there was a very clear situation about which parties support the vote, and who do not support it. That's why we could do it unanimously. When we say we have to have a vote, it is because the fiscal spokesman of the Left made it clear that it was not clear who supported the vote and who did not support it. Then we have to have a real nutrition. It can't be that the Left should be able to hide its opposition to the position of the majority parties because we have a technical system that says that all the parties vote in favour. When there are political realities in voting, we must put it on the table. That's why the Labour Party says that we want to do with the tax and tax system the same thing that we've done with all the other framework areas: vote against the framework, because it doesn't go up to the sum that we had in our financial position. It's true that we have to vote on case no. 2 first, because once it has been adopted, the Workers' Party will be involved in the practical arrangement of taking the legislative proposals. It is much easier when the framework is adopted. But we need to know which parts are behind it. We have understood that the Left primarily had a different position, as they had in very many other cases, but normally, when entering into a budgetary settlement, it has to apply to the entire budget – not just the expenditure side. This is special -- we get a sharp vote on the income side. 87 votes to 82 will be the full hall. With the replacement, the voting will be even sharper. It is an alarming political situation that the Left has now actually withdrawn from its subsidiary support for the budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e997	Now the president himself has indicated the very wise way to put up the voting, so I don't want to make any suggestions about that. I just want to give my full support to that way, to make it as simple as possible. It is not that the Left has been against the entire income side of the budget. What has been involved is the arrangement of the financial tax. There is – as has been mentioned – the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, and it is expressed in proposal No. 8 in the setting, which is from a minority, of course. We know it doesn't get majority. We are in favour of the amount to be recovered, and we then subsidize the majority who have manifested themselves in dealing with the matter. I would then urge the Christian People's Party Group to vote in favour of the committee's recommendation on both the vote's proposal for Decision A and the rest, so that there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1006	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1011	It is mildly alarming to hear the same bourgeois parties that, in the last period, studied any shade in the public statements of the three red-green government parties and called it chaos, now try to say that a party voting against the entire revenue side of the state budget is not really against it. Either you vote in favour of all the taxes and charges that have been agreed upon, or you vote against them. It's no more complicated than that. And it's not possible to interpret it as that the Left votes against the whole proposal for Decision A of the Interior. 3 S for 2016–2017 as opposed to the revenue page of the State budget. There is a rather dramatic development during a debate in Stortinget. The concept of civil chaos quickly emerges. I will join the voting order the Workers' Party adds for Innst. 4 L for 2016-2017. There we are also still prepared to have a simplified voting order, of course assuming that it is not used against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1018	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1023	On Thursday evening, I was in the party leader debate. Then the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left spent all their time talking about all the chaos that was between the Center Party and the Workers' Party. It sounds pretty hollow when you can't get a hold of your own stakes in the 20 framework areas we have now adopted. I have grown up in part in a Left tradition, and what has been a part of the challenge for the Left is that where there are two representatives from the Left in the same room, there are two different opinions! We hope that when there are two representatives in the Chamber – now the Left has managed to get back into the Chamber, they have been out large sections of the debate – there are two different opinions, and that Trine Skei Grande is able to mean the same thing today as she meant on Thursday, and the same thing she meant a month ago, when she was with the budgetary partners. It is quite wise for a party leader to dry to mean the same when it comes to voting as when one stands and boasts on TV. So it's going to be interesting when we hear Skei Grande now, if it's still like that in the Left Tradition, that when there are two different representatives in the Chamber, there are two different opinions. That's what we're going to think.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1030	It is tempting to start by commenting on the Battle of Vedum, who – since we are discussing financial taxes – has held most opinions on how that financial tax is to finance Norwegian communities and how much money it is to bring in every single year. The thing that's serious, and that makes me take the floor, is that the Workers' Party is running a game that undermines having broad agreements. The left has never been in favour of a financial tax, but we have made a compromise because we think it is important to have predictability around the tax system. But we have disagreed with the financial tax regime. When we then got an offer on the table, we tried to work for another solution – a solution that would save hundreds, perhaps thousands of Norwegian jobs in the financial industry. The Workers' Party said no to that. The Labour Party agreed with the government! The working party would like to make a compromise with the government on the consensus on this matter! Then, when they give full support to the model to the government – full support for job-rearing and full support for its implementation in all settlement rooms – they choose to turn now and will not support what they have supported in all negotiations and in all closed rooms. It's a game. It's demeaning for this room, that you first try to push someone to think something you don't mean, and then press them to vote for a model they're not for when they're sailed by those who've "backed" the model! This is going to lead to settlement weakening in this hall. This will lead to a weakening of the confidence between the parties in this room as regards the absence of gambling! It will undermine Parliament's confidence. It undermines the trust of the parties between themselves. The type of game the Workers' Party is running is at least no invitation to the Left – if that's what they thought. This is about catching people to vote for positions you're not in favour of. We're for profit, we've just put in another model, and here we're being pushed to vote for a model we're opposed to and we think will have negative consequences, and that the Workers' Party has pushed through! It is then asked whether a small party should be allowed to be overrun by the big ones, whether that is what is the core of democracy, whether it is the game in this hall that is the core, or whether it is actually the content of the voting we are doing. So the Workers' Party could have created another model for the financial tax along with the Left. They didn't, but they're trying to push the left to vote for something we're not for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1043	We have to deal with Framework Area 21, which is the total disposal of taxes and charges in the 2017 budget. We do not have a single tax and the device on it. The left-hand side says that the working party could have made a different layout together with the left-hand side. No, we couldn't, because we haven't made a deal with the Left. The Left and Christian People's Party have agreed with the Right and the Advance Party – that is the vote we are going to have here in the Chamber. So the Left says that they agree with all of these tax cuts of the rich, they agree with almost everything, but the financial tax is the disagreement. Therefore, they will vote against the whole of the Framework Area 21. But the Workers' Party, which strongly disagrees with very much of the tax and tax system, but agree with the financial tax, we should, after Trine Skei Grande's view, vote in favour of the framework area 21! That may not be Parliamentary, but this is a parody! So we're voting on the most important part of the entire budgetary agreement, the revenue from the 2017 government budget, and the left says that no, now they're no longer part of this reconciliation. They shall not even vote subsidiaryly, after their own proposal for another instrument of financial taxation has fallen, for the agreement they have with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party! There's been a lot of talk about budget chaos. It is true, as the government parties have stressed, that there have also been lengthy negotiations and in and out of doors in previous years. But I have never felt that the budget negotiations and the budget chaos have continued until the examination of some of the last framework areas in the main hall! This is not a game on the part of the Workers' Party – this is what has been at the root of parliamentaryism and deliberation since the late 1800s, that we are bringing forward the political differences in voting. And the vote we are about to have now has to make visible which lots are for the tax and tax arrangements that will apply to 2017, and which ones are against. If Trine Skei Grande thinks it is a political game – yes, it is the policy itself. That's what we're doing. We get different views, and then we have to negotiate. We would like to negotiate the financial tax with the Left, we, but then we had a parliamentary situation in which the Christian People's Party had to choose whether it was the government that was going to remain, or whether it was going to be a different government. That's what Stepe Skei Grande says we're going to do now – in the last minute in the treatment of the tax and tax system. The Labour Party is voting against Framework Area 21 because it doesn't go up on what we have in the financial situation. We've never supported it, we've never negotiated it, we've never agreed on it. Then, finally, the question is whether the Left, who has negotiated it, who has agreed on it, and who has the same framework, finally provides the majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1057	It is indeed a rather remarkable situation that has arisen in Stortinget. I just want to first establish that the Central Party has not entered into any budgetary settlement with the government that obliges us, in terms of neither the expenditure side of the budget nor the income side. Nor has the centre party given any authority to the financial tax facility requested by the government. We've wanted a financial tax, but we've wanted a different model than the government wants, and we think there's a lot of good, real reasons for that. When the Left Party, which has entered into a budgetary settlement with the government, today accuses everyone else of participating in a game, I have to say that it is surprising. There are experienced parliamentarians we are talking about here, the Left must always have known how today's vote was to take place – as has always been the case – namely, that a vote gathered over the framework area 21. The fact that today the Left decides to go away from the one substantial part of the budgetary agreement they have entered into with the government, by voting against the entire framework area 21, is, in my view, mildly alarming. So standing here and quite liberatingly accusing other parties of gambling is also no less remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1066	We have the pleasure of working on Saturday's work because of the somewhat unorthodox budgetary process that the bourgeois parties have been operating on beyond the harvest. I must admit that I had a expectation of coming here and getting a fairly quiet Saturday where things should have been given in advance. So now it turns out that the mess that has marked the harvest continues into the main hall in the decisive debate before the decisive vote. It happens two days after a party leader debate in which the bourgeois party leaders had the nerve to challenge us on the red-green side with accusations that there was chaos and ambiguity in us. Now we have a budgetary settlement that not all the budgetary partners will vote for the income side, although everyone will vote for the expenditure side. We have a cooperation agreement, which must be somewhat unclear about its existence or not, at the end of this debate. Is there a budgetary settlement? Is there a cooperation agreement? Is it that civil cooperation is really a menu that you can pick a little bit from here and there, and otherwise go against when it suits you? Can we really talk about a budget agreement if it only concerns what you agree to spend money on, but do we not agree on where to get the money? It's a pretty special situation. In the case of accusations of gambling – if there is a game to point out that there is a special situation – what is not a game by first entering into a budget agreement with a clear income side and clear priorities of where to pick up the money, then last round and vote against the whole thing and leave it to someone else to save it? That's what's game in this situation. In summary, one of the conciliators is about to vote against his own compromise. At least I would expect that there will be no further accusations by the citizens from here until September that there is a lack of clarity in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1077	It's true that I've been here a few years. I've only been here half the time sitting, but I've been here a few years. But to prove that these are just games, you really just have to be here for one year -- one year. Too late last year, everyone voted in favour of the income frame. Last year, the Labour Party voted in favour of this framework. It's been tradition every year that this is something you vote for. We were promised this in the Financial Committee, that it was the same procedure we were going to follow this year that we've been following all the other years. But now you turn around, you turn around and choose a whole new procedure just because you have to punish someone to vote for something you're against. That's new. So you don't have to be a tandem parliamentarian to prove the game here. One could have been here for one year and learned how to always vote on the budget – and the way the Labour Party voted last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1082	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1087	First of all, I would like to clarify a matter on which the parliamentary leader of the Left misinformed the Chamber. It is that this has not been dealt with in the committee; this came as a proposal yesterday evening for a simplified vote. We have such simplified votes from time to time in this Chamber when the political realities are clarified. For example, we have to do this. vote on all these legislative proposals, which in the past took hours, in a very simple way, because the majority and minorities are resolved. What happened in this debate was that the majority and minorities were no longer clear, because the Left announced that they no longer supported that framework area. They would vote technically for it, but politically no longer be part of the majority that stood behind it. That was the political spokesman for the Left who made clear from this pulpit. Then we must have a political vote. We need to know which parties vote for Framework Area 21, and who does not, who is behind the income side of the deal, and who does not – who really forms the basis of the government's further life, and who does not. That's what this voting is now about, and that's what the left hand is now running from. You can't go into half a deal, you have to make a deal on both the expenditure side and the income side, and you have to vote for both the expenditure side and the income side – don't go to the biggest opposition party and tell us to make a majority deal that we're no longer part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1093	The simple reality is that once a settlement has been concluded, it must be expected that a party will take responsibility for the settlement, both the cost side and the income side of the settlement. That is the reality of what we are discussing at the end of the debate today. Then I can appeal to the representative Giske to consider what had been agreed or not agreed upon in advance in the committee, and also what has been the assessments relating to the disagreements that have been in advance. But it's not possible to push this question in front of you the way the left now does. In reality, it expresses a distrust of the government with which they have made a budgetary settlement – if it was not for the Left gamble that the other parties should support the income side, so that they did not vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1097	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1116	The representative, Mr Breivik, has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1121	This was a strange, instructive round, where the Storting deviated from normal voice procedure to use formalities as a means of forcing a party's position. Then, too, the climate for the conciliation in this room has been distorted. The left has been given ample opportunity to deepen this and to highlight what we think earlier in the debate. So in order not to exacerbate the co-operation environment, the Left will voice the recommendation from the Committee, to the A, in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1128	The representative, Mr Breivik, then gave an explanation of vote stating that the Left would now vote in favour of the Committee's position on A. A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No 2, from Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-5, from Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 6, from Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 8, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left proposal No 9, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 10–13, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No 15, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that proposal No. 2 has changed during the debate and now reads: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a mechanism to ensure that everyone who imports cars into the country is covered by the statutory return schemes and contributes to the financing of the car.’ First of all, there is the proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of whether it would be appropriate to limit the tax exemption for zero-emission cars, while at the same time strengthening the tax advantages for zero-emission cars by increasing the fossil car charges so that zero-emission cars are significantly cheaper than fossil cars in all different classes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1182	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1187	Then it's 96 votes against and 3 votes in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–13, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government of the State Budget for 2018 to propose a new inheritance tax with a redistributive device.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking, as part of the introduction of preferential housing taxes, to propose the right to defer the payment of this part of the tax to change the dwelling.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a tax model for the financial sector that respects the characteristics of VAT to a greater extent, with a view to its introduction from September 2017.’» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for changes to the air passenger fee that ensure that areas of the country without satisfactory alternatives to aeroplanes are not disproportionately affected’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1222	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the power plant tax, with a view to proposing changes that help restore the distribution of the hydropower wealth that a large majority of the power plant tax was at the root of the power tax reform.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1241	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals as soon as possible for the 2017 financial tax to be designed as a forward-looking tax on general income in the financial sector, where payments are made in part in the year of income. [[except ordinary company tax]] Such a model replaces the government's proposal to introduce a wage-based tax in the financial sector.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1259	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the means of strengthening the incentives for employee participation in start-up companies, including the ability to offer employee options in the company, and to promote this in an appropriate way for the Storting.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1278	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return in the context of the revised national budget 2017 with proposals to limit the tax exemption for zero-emission cars, including an assessment that the tax exemption only applies to SEK 500000 in the purchase price, an assessment of the possibility of exempting additional equipment from the current tax exemption.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1295	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back in the context of the revised national budget with an evaluation of the air passenger charge. The evaluation must, inter alia, identify the climate effects of the charge, the costs it incurs for Norwegian business and whether it should be organised more appropriately, including whether some routes should be exempted and whether there should be a differentiation between domestic and foreign routes.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a device for the weight deduction of chargeable hybrids that reflects the length of the reach of the car when it goes on electricity. This can be done by seeing the car’s battery capacity and weight in the context.” The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1319	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the system of duty and VAT exemptions on consignments of goods worth less than SEK 350 and to assess its impact on the Norwegian trade and government finances.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1338	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a mechanism to ensure that everyone who imports cars into the country is covered by the statutory return schemes and contributes to the financing of the car.’ The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e1356	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the right, from the forepart, from the Christian people, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that the coverage of the VAT expenditure of fresh schools for adult students who do not have legal requirements for secondary education be fully compensated by the increased grant rate from 1 January 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e8536	Now the President sees it so that the Left votes in favour. D The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party shall vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e8548	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e8574	It shall be counted against I, III and IV first. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e8586	It shall be counted against II. The right hand side and the Progression Party have notified that they will support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e8596	We then go to voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e8605	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party. Here the President believes that she is on safe ground when she now says the following – as opposed to voting on case no. Article 2 is replaced by the following: In order to reduce the number of votes, the President will propose a unified voting order. The main positions of the different batches are clearly highlighted in the settings, and reference is made to Innst. 2 S for 2016-2017 and Innst. 3 S for 2016-2017. It will in practice mean that when we have voted on the minority proposals, none of the parties will vote against the vote's recommendation. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. No objections have been raised to this proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is first voted on by the Workers' Party's proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for a return in the context of the revised 2017 budget with proposals for the inclusion of dividends in the share-saving arrangement for persons with tax obligations to Norway, in a way that prevents unnecessary red tape’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10201	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10211	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: P. The size asks the government of the revised national budget 2017 to explain the support schemes for housing to disadvantaged people made available by the municipality and how these schemes could be improved. It is also requested to assess the impact of allocation needs and possible limitations if the VAT compensation scheme is to be extended to housing for disadvantaged persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10228	Svein Roald Hansen took over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10242	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, a speaking time of up to 10 minutes is proposed to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10255	The biggest challenge in school today is non-response. One in four students ends before they have passed secondary education. There are 15,000 students in each coal. Most of our school policy needs to build up against unwanted dropouts, because it is becoming increasingly difficult to stand without a letter of formal qualifications or the possibility of further studies. The consequences for a good part are loose or unconnected with the labour market. The consequences for society are that we lack professionals, especially those with diplomas or higher education in professional professions such as teachers, different health workers or engineers. It is not good for the individual to feel that there is no need for one, and it is not good for society with such a large resource loss as unemployment is. A good education system that provides space and space for all is therefore essential if we are to succeed in this great and important task. The most important and powerful tool of Norwegian politicians is the state budget that we are dealing with today. That's what you do with the big money, that shows the political direction. Is there public common tasks that are most important, or is there financial relief for them with the highest income and wealth? Are there targeted measures to combat unemployment or so-called dynamic tax relief, which prove to be low on jobs? Is it more for the municipalities, who do the job at school and in the care of the elderly, or is it more for those with great fortunes? The government's response also at this time is tax relief, increased oil money use and too little investment in education. The government increased the use of oil by 15 billion. kr from 2016 to its 2017 budget proposal. In the proposal, there are four new school interventions with more than 10 million. kr in fresh money. There is early work, professionalism, measures to combat bullying and real-time investment. Schools are thus fed with less than 2 pst. of the increase in the use of oil money. In addition, the municipalities do not get enough to solve the heavy and important problems they have in the care of the elderly and in the school. We at Stortinget may have good intentions for both primary, secondary and secondary education, but it does not help much if the municipalities have too poor finances. That is why the Labour Party has 3 billion in its alternative budget. kr more to the municipalities. It is necessary to prevent the disappearance of teaching positions or to avoid weakening the school health service for young people — in order to take some important examples. Too little money for the municipalities and huge tax reliefs to them with the most from the past we have been used to emboldening the budgets of this government, but in the fields of education we also see another interesting pattern, namely that the majority of the population pressure the government to pursue a policy that they are more or less opposed to. The Right Party and the Advance Party have sat on the sideline of Norwegian school policy as the only two parties that do not want to increase the bet on more teachers. We're happy that the center parties share the ambition for more teachers and more knowledge in school. The right argues in the media, but the bulk of the population wants Norwegian students to have more time with their teacher and that teachers have enough time for the students. Therefore, the Workers' Party supports most of the changes Christian People's Party and the Left have made in the knowledge budget. In addition, we've cancelled more than 1 billion. kr more than the government's original proposals for more teachers, fight against bullying and early intervention. We're going to spend over 100 million dollars. SEK on reading, writing and calculating guarantees: We reverse the cut in 600 teaching positions in high school and increase teacher's density in high school – a total of 480 million. kr more for more teachers. We are also involved in the additions that came after the budget agreement. Early school success depends on early school success. A week, a month or a year is for a child a sea of time. Children are very susceptible to learning, but the ability to learn changes as the child grows. So wait and see is not an alternative. The government also says they should bet on early efforts. It's good, but the early effort of the government is rather late than early. In answer to budgetary questions, the government says they're $150 million. kr shall prepare the municipalities for a legislative proposal aimed at providing professionally weak students with time-limited intensive training, but at the earliest time it is relevant to implement these changes in the legislative proposal from the school year 2018 to 2019. So this is money to be spent on children now three to four years old and going to kindergarten. But the cut comes now and hits high school students, who also need more teachers, where they go to schools in full classrooms and full schools in the most populous parts of the country. Against this background, it is strange that they explain briefly in these secondary schools that the money should be spent at an early stage – when the law does not come into force until two years from now. Now unemployment in Norway is greater than in Sweden and the United States. It's alarming in itself. This underlines that we are in a serious employment situation in Norway. With nearly 80,000 people under 30 years of age outside of studies or work, it is quite incredible that the government did not propose a single new study place in the state budget for 2017. There will now be 500 places of study after the agreement, with the pen. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has allocated funds to 3,000 new places of study, giving more people the opportunity to study. This means that unemployed people and others outside the labour market can better secure the skills needed to get a job. Few things are more important right now. Hundreds are applying for jobs where formal qualifications are not needed today. At the same time, we lack teachers and kindergarten educators and most health professionals at bachelor or master level. Almost four years ago, we discussed the research report. At that time, a unanimous increase decided to establish a long-term plan for research and higher education in order to increase predictability for the sector. This has been good. The government responded to parts of the task, but not the whole. Higher education received hardly anything pressurised at all, and that's probably why there's going to be a big message about quality in higher education like that in the polling period. A construction and infrastructure plan was also not answered. It's very unpredictable who gets the building grant when, and why the order is just like that or like that. It is a well-known and well-documented case that there is a huge lag in construction and infrastructure in the university and higher education sectors. Therefore, in 2013, the Stortinget decided that the long-term plan would also include construction. It created hopes in many, but so to speak nothing is fulfilled. Only one project has been proposed by the government to start on the four state budgets presented by the Right and the Advance Party, and this is the museum in Bergen – nothing more. It is not good enough and does not respond to the great need this sector has for new construction and, above all, good infrastructure. Technological developments are moving very fast. If Norwegian research environments are to be competitive, they cannot be equipped with too old equipment. The sector is still in a structural process. Many institutions have joined forces, and they are still spending a lot of resources on this. The Labour Party has supported the intentions of the reform, but it is important that resources are included so that this does not weaken research activity and the quality of education. In particular, it is strange that the government and the cooperation parties choose to make a real cut, tried the make-up by using the word ‘reform’. The University of Oslo, for example, says they haven't had such a bad budget in many years, and they want to go negative. They have just been through their own efficiencies. Then it is very little motivating to get such a cut, justified by the need for less bureaucracy in the country in general. This is a rough calibre, and the result is that you're probably destroying too much. In this context, research and education are affected. So on top of this, the government has done the trick not to anchor a new funding system in Stortinget. It is a clear majority of the principles, but when they introduce indicators that come as a surprise to both the sector and the KUF Committee, governments cannot expect unconditional support. The Labour Party supports several of the objectives, such as working with employment and business and stimulating candidates to complete a degree, but we do not support the government's solutions without further delay. They break down with professional recommendations on several points, and it has untold consequences for institutions. These changes are to premise institutions for a long time in the future, and then we need to know the consequences. That's why we're going to postpone. We've all witnessed a U.S. election campaign that's been strange to us. A lot can be said about it, but one relationship all agrees. The country is divided – split. In my opinion, this is due, inter alia, to: developments in education policy over time. Many children attend poor public schools and receive no good education. Before that, colleges or university education were free of charge at state universities. This has become too expensive for many, even in the middle class. Re-schooling, means of conversion and continuing training for those who lose their jobs in industry are scarcely offered. They're left to solve the problem themselves. More and more tax reliefs for many years, especially for the richest, have provided tight public budgets. Some of the most important things a society needs to deliver to its citizens — a good and free education system. Large tax reliefs, tighter public budgets and more privatisation are a recipe that leads a society in the wrong direction. The 2017 elections will be a policy choice. The Labour Party will have Norway back on a track where community, free education for all and a safe welfare country are more important than tax relief and private wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10293	Would the representative like to include proposals in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10298	I'll do that. I'm addressing the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10303	Then the representative Marianne Aasen has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10308	After three years, the government has provided its fourth budget, and there is another budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. The 2017 budget also reflects this time that one of the main priorities of the government is to invest in knowledge. We strengthen early school efforts, we step up efforts to combat bullying in both kindergarten and school, we continue a large-scale effort to further teacher training, and we introduce a new five-year master's education for teachers. We are following the long-term plan for higher education and research, and we are strengthening the well-being of students by providing them with eleven months of student support and by building many more student homes. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right Party and the Advance Party have changed pace of knowledge policy. It notices the students, it notices the teachers, it notices the students, and it notices the researchers. In the future, we will also note the impact it has on value creation, because providing a good knowledge base is one of the most important things we can do to ensure that we are able to establish new, competitive private enterprises that can help finance our future well-being. It's about taking our trustworthiness seriously. In the last four budgets, appropriations for research and development have increased by a total of 5.1 billion. kr in addition to the price increase. And then we've stepped up the growth with a real increase of about 4 pst. every year, from an average growth of 2,4 pst. in the previous red-green period. You can certainly call that a change of pace. In addition, the tax FUNN scheme for research and development in industry is expected to increase by approximately 1.4 billion. kr during the period, inter alia: as a result of extensions made by that government in that scheme. Norway is facing major challenges in terms of migration, we knew that when we took over the government. That is why we have always worked systematically to invest in education, research, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax incentives. We do that because we know that's what it takes to create growth. It is knowledge and competence that form the basis for our future well-being. Norway has had a continuous growth in research and development appropriations over the past 30 years. But at a time when many countries are now cutting research appropriations, we are paying even more offensively than before, which will strengthen our competitiveness in the long term. While the red-green government invested the most in its first year in government, which was a down-adjusted research budget compared to the Bondevik II government before it went off, the red-green research effort varied from year to year, as a yes, and everyone remembers the rest cut from 2007. Unlike the red-green government, the non-socialist majority have combined to increase research appropriations every year, both as a share of the government budget and as a share of GDP. This is because we give priority to knowledge, and we keep our course steady. We have presented a long-term plan for higher education and research, and it has been systematically followed up every year. We also do that in the 2017 budget. The appropriations will be increased by 580 million. NOK 2017 and together we have followed up the plan with a total of SEK 2.2 billion. kr for the period 2015-2017. Research environments have never experienced a similar predictability in research appropriations, and students have been given a historic boost through eleven months of study support and record investment in student housing. We are implementing a structural change in the university and higher education sectors in order to get more robust professional environments and better education for the students. So the government delivers it sucks in school, education and research. But let me end by saying that the government delivers solidly in other areas. On 1 January we implement an important distinction between the State and the Norwegian Church. It's a historic milestone. Through this process, which has given rise to widespread uprisings in the Storting, and which has been going on throughout the reign, there is now a good basis for the Church to fulfil its role as a church of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10329	It is a good and large budget that has been adopted, but Norway is also facing major challenges in the coming years. In the 2017 budget, much is allocated to investments in infrastructure, research and knowledge. It will reduce the transport costs of business, increase innovation and innovation and increase the skills of the population. These are investments in the future, investments for necessary conversions to ensure growth and prosperity. Some parties, such as: The working party, prefers to say that this government gives the most tax relief to those who have the most from before. I will not be surprised if there are several occasions in this debate. In the Progress Party, we don't use that rhetoric. We believe that when the government follows up the policies of the Progress Party and implements significant tax relief, through, among other things. reduced corporate tax, this is tax relief that ensures existing jobs and allows for the creation of more new jobs. In the context of the necessary changes that must take place in business, I am pleased that an overall committee is behind a comment that indicates that the decline in oil and gas industries has led to both higher unemployment in the South and Western states and, in part, a substantial reduction in national value creation and exports. There will be good capacity and willingness to convert and renew business in the coming years, and businesses need long-term interaction with research and development environments to ensure sustainable transformation and continued high value creation. Furthermore, the Committee points out that it is aware of the serious challenges facing employment and industry in the South and the West, and therefore sees the need for long-term industrial change and renewal in these countries. The government’s priorities over the last few years have given particular attention to the need for change in the South and West. I have expectations that the Progress Party and the government will continue with this. I would like to stress that this has a tremendous impact on Rogaland, which has a high unemployment rate. Although we are going to live on oil and gas for many years to come and this will still be important for business also in Rogaland, it is a challenge that approx. 40 pst. jobs in the county are related to the oil and gas sector. A commitment to cooperation between research environments and business will ensure new jobs in Rogaland and contribute nationally to tax revenue. The Progress Party believes that good and predictable framework conditions for business, cut-offs in the form field and a good education and research sector are the cornerstones of the welfare society and a prerequisite for securing jobs and value creation. A well-functioning and economically sustainable welfare country is completely dependent on a good education sector. Here the teacher plays a key role. Without good teachers, there will be no knowledge or value creation in the future. As long as I remember, we've talked about how important it is with good teachers in school. In this context, I would like to quote Trond Giske from a question-time debate on 12 April 2000, when he was Minister of Education: ‘Teacher training is part of higher education in Norway and it will: be natural that it is also subject to review following the inclusion of the Mjøs Committee; its setting. And I totally agree with the representative Petersen that we have to mourn. that we have good enough qualified teachers. It is serious that very many teachers do not have the education they should have to teach in the Norwegian the school.’» I believe that both the representative of Giske and the whole of Skole-Norge are now really satisfied that the Progress Party and the government have not abandoned this talk, but have actually put in place concrete measures in this area: stricter character requirements for access to teacher training, requirements for immersion, record-breaking training efforts for teachers and the introduction of five-year teacher training are actions carried out by the Progress Party and the Government. This will enhance the quality of school, for the benefit of students, teachers and society alike. It may also be in place in the spirit of Christmas and rowdyness to emphasize that much of what has been initiated by the government has broad support, not only from the Christian People's Party and the Left, but also from the Workers' Party. Fortunately, unlike in the past, school policy is no longer an ideological battlefield. That is why I think many people are more satisfied with the government's policy in this area than they really want to admit. The progress party at Stortinget is also largely satisfied with Councillor Røe Isaksen and the government's efforts. Important points of the Party's Party's programme in the field of school are among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t prohibition of nicotine and face-to-face clothing in school real-phasic lift KRLE, with extra emphasis on Christianity – this to provide students with knowledge of Europe's cultural base better school environment enhanced and concrete response to bullying; strengthening of the basic subjects; the liberalisation of the Law on Free Schooling; teacher lift with five-year education depression requirements; continuing training of teachers; vocational traineeships with increased apprenticeship grants, hospitation for vocational teachers, etc. In all these areas, there is either something going on or concrete and practical policies have been put in place that provide a better school and a better basis for future innovation, well-being and value creation. For the Progress Party, professional and vocational training is very important. Both enterprises and the public sector will in the future have a major need for skilled workers in vocational and vocational training. This is why we provide alternative training courses, such as: practical training programmes in enterprises. The practical letter system is being extended, the offer to students who want to combine letter and study skills, further development, the vocational correction of the common subjects in vocational training programmes is under way.The exchange model is being strengthened and the apprenticeship grant is being increased. Under this government, the grant has increased by NOK 20 000 per apprenticeship contract. The Progress Party believes that professionally up-to-date vocational teachers are important. The government is following up the expansion of hostilities so that enterprises can contribute to the professional updating of vocational teachers. Furthermore, professionals who want to become teachers can now receive a scholarship to combine education with any part-time job. These are measures that will enhance quality and hopefully reduce school dropout. Many students in Norwegian school today have major problems with the real subjects, especially mathematics. The Progress Party has long pointed out this challenge and is pleased that the government is clear, offensive and practical in its efforts to gain real-life knowledge at a level that the world’s richest country can be familiar with. The real-time vocational training programme is in full swing, and the provision of continuing training to teachers places particular emphasis on mathematics and natural sciences. There is a holistic thinking behind the knowledge effort in the budget. Norway must have good education at all levels, from kindergarten and primary school to vocational schools, universities and adult education. Norway as a knowledge society is completely dependent on students from primary school to acquire knowledge to master the challenges they face later in life. Our actions will have a good impact on the long term. The important thing now is that we've been looking forward. We need to ensure that taxpayers' money is managed in the most reasonable way possible, and we need to make demands. We must not forget that Norway is at the top of the OECD in terms of both resource use per teacher and student and teacher density per student. This shows the need for sensible, school-based reforms. The quality reforms we have implemented in recent years have been in good dialogue with school and research communities. We believe that Norwegian school is on the right track, and are impressed by good teachers and school leaders' efforts and willingness to do the school well. High-ranking teachers take on-the-job training to improve their skills, for the benefit of both students, themselves and society. This we think will produce good results in the future. The latest results from TIMSS and PISA suggest that the school is on the right track. The Progress Party believes that the school policy that the government is pursuing is the right one for the school. It uses resources in school research, so we see which actions work best, and what gives the most effect. It provides the basis for a knowledge-based, effective and practical school policy, which we hope the Progress Party can help to lead for many years to come. I get to come back to the church budget in a separate post.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10426	Representatives from both the government parties and the cooperation parties have said several times that we have seen a shift in school and education policy with the new majority we received at Stortinget since 2013. You might think that's the rhythms we're hearing now, but it's probably something else, from the outside. I am pleased that we are also able to keep pace in 2017. In some areas it is now beginning to swing really. I think it is nice to see that also the red-green parts have changed their pace after they came into opposition. The main school effort for the Christian People's Party during this major period has been early efforts. One of the major challenges in school is that too many people are getting help too late. There are too many people who don't learn what they're going to do in the first few years of school, and who thus get a difficult starting point for further learning. To a large extent, each teacher is responsible for many students each, and they have too little time for each student. Three out of four teachers say they have too little time for their students, and then it's hard to give the individual the help and follow-up they need. It will take the Christian People's Party seriously, and therefore our great bet has been more teachers of the youngest students. We've been prioritizing this all over this magnification period, and now we have earmarked funds for more than 1,700 more teaching positions in the first, second, third and fourth classes. There is a strong commitment to early action, and it is a targeted action to help those who need it the most. The Christian People's Party also wants a national standard of teacher's density for the entire primary school. We want there to be a maximum of 16 students per teacher on average at all 1-4 schools. class and maximum 24 pupils per teacher on average from 5 to 10. class. In our alternative budget, we put in funds to fully finance such a standard for the entire primary school. We have not fully implemented this, but we have now fully financed a standard for primary school. It's an important breakthrough, it's the right place to start, and then the Stortinget has the opportunity to adopt a norm for the entire primary school when the Christian People's Party's representative proposal is to be considered over the New Year. I'm also glad that we've got to increase the grant for the school health service, I'm saying it even though it's under a different committee. Health sisters do an important job in school, and it is important that the students do not meet a closed door when they need help. They cannot be told that they must wait until next Thursday; they must get help when they need help. That is why it is important that the money the Stortinge grants to the school health service is actually used for more health sisters, and therefore it is both important and right to earmark these funds. The Christian People's Party is also pleased with other breakthroughs in school policy. One of them is to increase the capital grant for the high schools, because even students in the fresh school need a roof over their heads, and pending the government's decision last year to find a solution to how rent costs can be incorporated into the grants of the high schools, I'm glad that we've got to increase the capital grant somewhat. I am also pleased that we have now agreed that the State will continue to finance supplementary education for Norwegian students who live abroad, and that the grant to Norskskkolan and the Global School will not be cut. Another challenge at school concerns the professions. For many years we have had problems getting enough apprenticeships, and it has probably been one of the most important reasons why fewer than we would like to have chosen a professional career in higher education. Norway needs more skilled workers, but if it appears to be a career risk sport to choose a profession, it becomes less attractive. Throughout this period, the Christian People's Party has worked to raise the apprentice's grant, and here all the cooperation parties have contributed. The government has increased the subsidy in its budget proposals, and the Christian People's Party and the Left have been implemented to further increase it in the comparisons. There is a commitment that will make it more attractive to become a learning business, and it will hopefully help to increase the number of apprenticeships, and that is a good measure to curb increasing unemployment among young people. The Christian People's Party also added 20 million. kr to the social contract in our alternative budget, in order to strengthen efforts to provide more apprenticeships and apprenticeships. We got 4 million throughput. kr, and I think that will be a good part of this important work. With regard to research and higher education, we are now adopting a budget that is in line with the escalation in the long-term plan adopted by the Stortinget. There will be several places of study, several recruitment positions, increased research efforts and, in addition, a bet in the vocational schools. The new funding system for the university and higher education sectors is now also being implemented. I think it's a good funding system, which I think will help improve quality, contribute to more internationalisation, increased implementation rate and more research cooperation. The Christian People's Party was critical of the way the government chose to implement the new system. We saw that some institutions lost in the transition, and in our alternative budget, we proposed to give full compensation to the institutions that lost in the transition – without affecting those who got out of it. This was partly passed on to us, and this is a good strengthening of the sector in general. As far as the students are concerned, I would like to pay tribute to the Left for having been the driver of several student homes, and it is a pleasure to join in that the student support is now escalating up to 11 months. For the Christian People's Party, it is in the long run a clear goal that this should also apply to the higher education institutions. Then I'd like to mention the private educational institutions. The Academy of Music has now entered the State budget, I am pleased, and I am also pleased that the teacher training at NLA University is now escalating with 70 new places of study. The private educational institutions are an important part of our education system, but we need a review of the funding system for the private actors. The government has been given a job to deliver, and I hope that we will soon get a matter for Stortinget about this. One thing the government has to look at in that work is the criteria for getting into the funding system. There has been no reason why the Musikkteater Hochschule should not receive state subsidies. Now they get it, and I'm glad. It's a matter that might seem a bit curious in the big context, which I also want to mention, and that's the allocation for starting a piano voice training at Norway's music high school. Piano voices do an important job for cultural life, but we're moving towards a lack of piano voices in Norway, and we're not training new ones today. It's the opposition's role to be critical of the budgetary settlements of the majority parties, but I hope they appreciate at least that we're now saving too much acid music in the future. Finally, I have to say something about the Norwegian Church, for in 15 days the Norwegian Church will become a separate legal entity and an independent religious community outside the state. Fortunately, that does not mean that the Church is separated from society or separated from the people. Neither does it mean that all ties between state and church are broken. The Church will still have a special position both in society and in law, and it will be subject to requirements and expectations other than that of other religious communities. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the Church and its employees are safeguarded in this process of conversion. It is also an objective that the Church's activities should be able to continue at the same level as today. So it was unfortunate that the government provided a budget that meant that the Church must have cut heavily in the number of performances. I'm glad we were able to strengthen the grant by 60 million. kr in the agreement. I would like to see that we also had a slightly higher equity deposit than the 100 million. kr that the government submitted, in order to provide the Church with a security for future risks. We did not get this through in this round, but the Committee now asks the government to come back to the revised budget for 2017 with an assessment of the situation and, if necessary, the need to further strengthen equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10457	Over the nearly seven and a half years I've been sitting on the Stortinget, I've had one moustache on behalf of the Center Party in particular. It is to get the practical subjects on the agenda, both in primary, secondary, vocational and higher education. In all modesty, I feel that both myself and the Center Party have succeeded in doing this, sail if we have not at all been able to make all the changes that we think are necessary to give the professional subjects and vocational training the recognition and place that the subjects and not least the students deserve. The centre party is impatient on behalf of the professions. It is also reflected in our alternative draft budget. Yes, I can assure you that the Center Party is also concerned with early school efforts, and yes, we prioritise increased funding for more teachers. In addition, the Central Party, through its alternative budget, defends the objective of equal rights to education throughout the country, where the government proposes the opposite. That means that students should have the same opportunity to take whatever education they want, even where the school is not around the next turn, but maybe several miles away. Therefore, we have proposed to increase the housing allowance by NOK 1000 and to cancel the needs test of the housing allowance against apprentice income. I am proud that the Central Party was able to make an impact on the introduction of the electoral profession in high school in the previous period. It was lengthened and an important recognition of the value of practical skills, and it is important for the school to be seen as relevant for all students — including those who do not find themselves able to use only theoretical subjects and working methods. It was also a victory that we were introduced to the profession at school – a taste in the professions and a guide to the opportunities offered by vocational training. But I am disappointed with the government and the supporting parties, who obviously believe that the subject is not important enough to ensure that all students have the opportunity to choose a career. Although the Council of State will probably shake my head over the fact that I am once again cutting off the government's so-called professional initiative, I regret to say that I am disappointed that the government does not give priority to the professions. On the other hand, we are witnessing a government that has the power to act when it comes to sending experienced teachers on courses to collect study credits, and a government that has merged universities and colleges over a low shoe. But to be able to implement decisions The Stortinget did already three and a half years ago for the professions, the government is unable to do so. It's disappointing. It does not help that the government has chosen a rhetoric that gives the impression that the professions have been lifted when the facts show that this has not been the case. In 2013, Stortinget decided that: The offer structure should be reviewed small and protective subjects should be reviewed to stimulate the establishment of Y-routes from several disciplines that would facilitate earlier and more frequent exchanges between school and work life training, i.e. exchange models which should effectively target joint projects for immersion should be established into the enterprise several apprenticeships should be established through the Society's alternative Vg3 contract for those who do not receive training, should be investigated a should identify the equipment situation a should introduce hosting arrangements a should introduce a practical letter a should consider a regime for the recognition of foreign diplomas a should grant the right to be applied after a letter of formal notice The last four points have been completed. In brackets, the right of enrolment was adopted after the Central Party presented a Document 8 proposal which the majority voted against. There's more in the Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, Straight ahead. Yes, the government has undertaken to review the supply structure, and the Education Directorate has proposed a number of major changes. However, the hearing is postponed until spring. Then four years have passed since the Storting made its decisions. The fact that you have not received the vocational school report before almost two years after the state council itself proclaimed the academic year also says that it is not in the professional press. The placement of apprentices and the recruitment of apprenticeships is a local and regional responsibility that requires sustained and direct follow-up at all times. It's very good that the government has increased the apprenticeship grant, but the experience is that the number of apprentices who have been taught has dropped, not gone up. As the report from the National Audit Office shows, it is not just money for the companies that are going to get students to complete their course of study. Let me promote some of the Central Party's alternative budget proposals, where I think the government might be able to find some inspiration when they are about to launch a draft budget for 2018. The centre party has proposed to grant 50 million. to carry out local work to provide apprenticeships, such as: in Hadeland, where they have a percentage of 99. Professional motivators have proved to be gold valuable for both students, businesses and municipalities. We've also gone $40 million. kr to hospitation schemes. It is very important that vocational trainers have the opportunity to house their homes in professional life and also to bring people from business to schools. 50 million. kr extra we want to use in resource-requiring professional subjects. We have also increased the rates of equipment scholarships and the grant for training apprentices with special needs. In addition, every year we have demanded the government's commitment to enable the county councils to develop exchange models. It is both a labor-intensive and an economic challenge that the Stortinget has given to the states. The centre party has increased the framework of the county councils and municipalities so that they can better facilitate exchange models. In an interview in the nation from April 2014, six months after the government joined, i.e. two and a half years ago, the Council of State said that he would ‘remove the professions’. The evaluation of the professional subjects following the introduction of the Knowledge Lift showed that the recruitment to construction had dropped by more than 39 pst, and that the recruitment to design and craft had sunk by more than 42 pst. Still, too many people do not attend high school. It's especially from the professions that young people drop out. Therefore, it is a pity that the Council of State has not been able to do as he had thought. We want to bet on the professional subjects, and then it has to be done, not just talk. So the Center Party knows that the implementation of secondary education is also linked to how the students master and complete the primary school. This is why the Centre Party also wants to increase the teacher's density. We have said for years that we will give more teachers priority over several hours. I am pleased that several parties have now adopted the slogan – and the policy. It is important that the students can get early help with what they are struggling with. At the same time, it is important to have a teacher's density that allows for a variety of teaching and different learning arrangements, thus helping to help young people get help early in their struggles. The centre party believes that it is not enough to expand the teacher's density at the nursery. We believe this must be a general possibility. The report from the SSB, which arrived on 1 December, said that increasing teacher density in high school had no effect on increased learning. Well, I've read the report. It says that there is a great deal of uncertainty because of the comparative basis. Yeah, you can understand that. It's worth noting that the report is based on exam results in 10th grade one year. The SSB had also looked at national samples. They're not comparable from year to year, as you know, so I think it'll be like comparing ideal time from one year to another. I would have waited for the rest of the report before I concluded that increasing teacher density has no effect, but I think everyone understands that if you have two good teachers in the same class, it will necessarily give you a better chance of learning than if there was only one teacher present. I must also mention, to this extent, the so-called efficiency reform of this government. It should give a bitter taste to both the government and the Christian People's Party and the Left that, in order to accommodate the wishes of the supporting parties, one chooses to increase the cuts that are given flat to everyone, completely regardless of what they are doing, or the size of the institution or action. The example from Statped in this setting is good. To ‘get’ an extra million in grants for heavy hearing is a poor consolation when you cut 5 million. kr. So short about higher education. The funding model provides the basis for the development of the sector. The centre party believes the model is not good if we believe that we should also train for the broad welfare professions, and that not everyone should bet on being world leaders. We warned against the model already in the budget debate last year, when the conversion was presented. The effects for the next year show that there is a huge impact on the new universities versus the old ones. It's good that this is partially corrected in the agreement, but it's actually so that the biases that were criticised in the old system are now reinforced in the new. Let me briefly elaborate a little bit: the government takes from basic funding to universities and colleges and spends $300 million. to promote the institutions that are able to attract funding for contributions and assignments, despite the warnings. from the institution sector. The concern of the centre party is mainly about those institutions which are primarily responsible for vocational training, but we are also concerned that the rotation may weaken the institutions. We are particularly concerned that it will be more difficult for those who will train for the broad welfare professions to attract external resources. This will mean that the institutions responsible for these training programmes will become worse off in terms of funding. In addition, a better premium is provided for entire degrees in preference to annual studies, and a student conducting an annual study should not be as valuable. We think this is going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10547	There is a proposal from the Central Party and the Socialist Left in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10552	Then I'll take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10558	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10563	I have had the pleasure of being the operational committee leader during this budgetary procedure, and I would like to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation. It's been a demanding process for some people, but we got to the goal, and now we're here. Yesterday, the Left’s Grand Prix organised an internal mini-seminar on ICT in education. We received many recordings from a number of actors, such as the ICT-Norway, Abelia, the Lecturer Team, the Student Organisation, the Technology Council, etc. Many different themes were addressed, both issues and solutions. Common to all recordings is that there is a significant potential for improvement in the way we view ICT, use ICT and rate on ICT. For example, many still use ICT as a tool, they do not use the technology and the opportunities it provides to think in a new way and change teaching. It's still a little bit like that that our reference frameworks are analog, and then we use the technical means to do what we've always done, instead of exploiting the possibilities that technology gives us, for example. in the case of interaction with others, how more people can work on the same document at the same time and through the strengthening of typing training, or how to use games in teaching both to understand concepts and to get a different type of depth learning. It is also quite different how much ICT equipment there is in schools and how effective it is. In some places everyone has their own PC and iPad, while elsewhere there is a data room that needs to be booked, and often there are many machines that don't work. In the Left's alternative state budget, we have invested in ICT, including within the school. We've added 100 million. DKK for grants for ICT actions in training, a post where schools and municipalities could apply for support for ICT actions such as: smartboard and tablet. We had put in 150 million. extra for continuing training of teachers with special emphasis on ICT training. We had spent money moving technology and IT training from funding category E to D, and we had set aside 1,000 new places to study ICT. Technology is the future, and things happen quickly. We're talking about smart cities and autonomous cars, we're talking about technology in the care of the elderly with robots that make it easier to manage and live at home as long as possible and desirable. We're talking about the green shift and the new oil. We have to be at the ball. We have the greatest and best favoured someone in history ever had. But it's our job to follow, so that the chance doesn't miss us. I am glad that in the budget agreement we have got the government parties in 500 new places of study in ICT and 10 million. kr to ICT in initial training. But this can only be a beginning. Further training of teachers and school leaders has been an important issue for the Left throughout this ageing period. It's one of the things that it's been very easy to cooperate with the government about, because I know we're on the same course, and we have the same goal: more competent and professionally up-to-date teachers in Norwegian school. All the hard-working teachers in school must be given time and resources to receive professional and educational replenishment. For the Left, a public school of the highest quality is the first priority on the road to the knowledge society. During the budgetary negotiations during this enlargement period, appropriations for continuing training have increased sharply, in line with the priorities of the Left. Since the government in the 2014 additional proposition, approx. 200 million. For further training of teachers and school leaders, the post has now grown to approx. 1.4 B.C.E. kr with the money set aside in this budget agreement. It's historical, and unlike many other measures, we know that this is beneficial. It is useful to raise the results at school and ensure that more students get a good professional start in life. And it's been right to prioritize basic subjects. But now is the time to look at the other competences that need to be strengthened to ensure that all students can hang out with. I have already mentioned that the Left proposed a major effort to raise ICT competence among teachers. We also gave special priority to expertise in practical-esthetic subjects, to which an overall committee has pointed in the examination of the content message, and we put 50 million. to strengthen the management training of the school. All of these things are important parts of the early effort because it contributes to each individual student being taken seriously. Increased use of digital aids has an enormous potential for adapted training, which can help children not to fall from an early age. Practical-esthetic subjects stimulate creativity and creativity and create mastery for many who may be struggling with it in other subjects. With an effective fight against bullying, we can save too much mental suffering, and we can save society for future expenses. Early effort is about all of this, and it's about more teachers at the early class stages, but it's also about putting in the effort before school. I would therefore like to mention, although it has been dealt with in another committee, the work of ensuring that several families with low incomes get involved in kindergarten and SFO. With the aid schemes introduced in previous budgets and with the free full-time testing scheme introduced in this budget, many families enjoy it. Higher education and research have always been an important theme for the Left. It has also been in this budgetary process. The biggest discussion after the government presented its proposal to the government budget has been the new funding system. There was a broad majority in favour of the principles of introducing two new indicators, the BOA and the candidate indicator. But there was no one, either on the Storting or in the sector, who had considered what kind of outcome this would give, and what transfer between institutions this new system would lead to. I guess the Council of State was not aware of how big the results would be, because if he knew that, I would also expect him to inform the Storting about it. In the committee hearing, the sector through the UH Council made clear that the results were too large and that this was something we had to take into account in the budgetary process. This has not been an easy question. It's hard, because the Storting can't go in and make single adjustments without going on. We don't have any apparatus to calculate what kind of rash it's going to be if we do that or that. It has also been difficult because there are two layers in the sector. It'll be the old universities towards the new universities and colleges. No one is worthy of such contradictions, and with this system, this is a line of conflict that is not going to settle down in the next few years. The left therefore wanted to compensate those who came out badly, and we wanted to compensate them fully. We wanted to implement the new system, but add funds to those who lost money on it. The result of the budgetary agreement was that the introduction is now over three years, not two, and that negative beneficiaries receive a total of 45 million. kr in 2017. My position on this is that next year there is a new budget, and then there is also reason to compensate those who come out negatively. At least that's going to work for the left. In the alternative government budget of the Left, we have spent money on 2,000 new places of study, 200 new scholarship positions and 100 new post-doc positions. In the budget agreement, we received an average of 500 study places and 50 scholarship positions. These are the things we know are coming along well, and there are several institutions now waiting in suspense for the distribution of these scholarship positions and places of study. Student welfare has also been high with us. In the past, we have had an impact on stepping up the study support, and in 2017 the first week of the escalation will be paid, which will provide us with eleven months of study support. This is one of the most important steps we can take to hold the full-time students and to ensure that studying is a real choice for everyone. But student homes are also important. In our alternative state budget, we had 800 new student homes, so we had totaled 3,000, which is what student organizations want. In the agreement, there were 300, but there's also a significant contribution, which makes a difference. I want to draw up Oslo in particular, where we see a real estate market that is almost impossible for students to live with and in. Living in a student dwelling can make a big difference for students, and I'm glad we've been investing in it for the last three years. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Church. These are exciting times we're going to meet. We are in the middle of the division, and the Church is now to become an independent legal entity with all of that involved. We all know that the process the Church is now going through is demanding. The fault was obvious when they did not get what they had expected either to operate or equity. In the budgetary agreement, the operating grant was increased, but no additional funds were allocated to equity in addition to the government’s proposal. I assume that the Council of State has noticed that the committee asks the government to follow closely in the development and in the conversion, and that we ask the government to come back to revision with an update of the situation and an assessment of the need for more equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10599	The SV's alternative budget is a budget for learning and social cohesion to create a school that can give all children an opportunity to succeed — a school that can ensure that we realize the vision of a more creative school, a more learning school and a school that can help reduce the divisions of the Norwegian community. The future school is a school of in-depth learning, of creativity and of repatriation respect for practical learning in Norwegian school, just as the Ludvigsen Committee has recommended us – and the Stortinget followed a long way up in the work of the paper on the school of the future earlier this fall. The new school also needs a new school day if it is to be realized. Greater room must be created for active learning and physical activity on the school day for precisely practical-esthetic subjects, for the methods to be used to promote in-depth learning rather than surface learning. Therefore, in its draft budget, SV will start introducing a more practical and varied school day in Norway, what we call the all-day school. In full-time school, there's room for several hours of practical learning, room to give the kids who learn best by doing things practical, the experience of mastering at school, the breadth of the subject and the hours that are needed to make our school better in practical learning. There will be room for more active learning, physical activity related to professional input. There will be room for starting work on social cohesion, for example: by moving lessons out of the home and into school, so that everyone can get the opportunity to get good follow-up, no matter what kind of help they get at home. We also start in this budget a stepping-up of public health efforts in schools by allocating over the Ministry of Health and Welfare budget money to start introducing a free school meal in Norwegian school. The whole day school is about spending the time our kids already spend on school and schoolwork, in a better way. Today, we have a working day for most children, where they are already from the age of six, a full day at school, but where much of this time is spent on an SFO offer of varying quality and at a high price. In addition, our children have homework at home in the evening. The full-time school does not mean that children will spend more time in school and schoolwork, but that they will spend the time they already spend in a more sensible way. With that, we can also make an important contribution to solving the time squeeze for families, giving children more leisure time on their own premises. The prerequisite for a more practical and varied school day is that we get more teachers in Norwegian school. Several teachers are the most important thing for more and better learning, for better follow-up of each individual student – simply because more teachers give more time to each individual child, time to discover challenges, time to follow up the children on their own premises, both those one by one, and those one by one. That more teachers are good for Norwegian school is based on the practical experience of Norwegian teachers around the country's classroom. It's common sense that more people give more time, and that more time per child is needed. I react to the abuse we see from the government parties of the last report, related to the grades of those students who have been through high school in a school with an increased teaching capacity – through the red-green experiment with several teachers in high school. That report is not a basis for depreciating more teachers as an instrument for Norwegian school. First of all, it's a snapshot. There's a too narrow perception of what it was that experiment was supposed to contribute, and the researchers themselves take a number of reservations. Secondly, we need to have a discussion about how to use increased learning resources to get the most out of them. That debate is very interesting, but is derailed by the attempts of the right to say that more teachers are a pointless measure. We believe that the answer is a national standard for teacher density that can ensure that there are no more than 15 students per teacher between 1 and 4. steps and not more than 20 per teacher of 5 to 10. school-level steps. I will pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for the work they have done in this period of increasing teacher's density, while I will again demand information from the government about where this money has gone and how much it has had to say for the teacher's density around the country. It is also sad that it is decided today to remove 600 teachers from high school — secondary schools with special social challenges — many of the high schools most in need of increased teaching resources. It will not contribute to social cohesion in Norwegian school. Here, too, the government parties disinformation when they claim that it has always been intended that these teaching positions should be terminated this year. The whole premise for this experiment was on the contrary that it would lead to an assessment of a permanent continuation and of a teacher's norm. That assessment has not been made by the government. At all, the government has been totally uninterested in this experiment throughout this period. SV provides a significantly better budget for higher education and research than the government parties have submitted. We are committed to 1000 new ICT and technology places of study. We want to turn the funds into the higher education sector so that there is more resources for basic research. We will warn against the tendency for politicians to control more of what is to be researched, which goes beyond the free and curiosity-driven research that is needed for us to assert ourselves nationally and internationally for research purposes. We are also in favour of increasing student support and reversing the cut that the government is making in terms of the student loan rate, and we want to build 1,000 more student homes than the government suggested. After the budget agreement, we have seen that the bourgeois parties give one hand to the education sector, and then they take the other. Then they boast of the increased appropriations for universities and colleges and don't include the so-called efficiency cut at the other end of the calculation. The truth is, in the budget agreement, universities and colleges were used as balancing posts to raise money for things that were more important to the bourgeois parties. The efficiency reduction has consequences far beyond efficiency improvement. There is clearly the potential for efficiency improvement in universities and colleges, but not when there is an unprofessional cut-off proposal at the very end of the year. It then goes beyond important activities around Education-Norway. An example of that is given to us this week. The Education Directorate has made us aware that they will conclude the agreement with the National Centre for Writing Training and Writing Research and cut the learning-supporting typing tests. It is quite special that this government, which is so sworn by testing when it can be used for control and ranking, like to review the advice of professionals and make sure that learning-supporting tests in the field of writing, where we know that we have such great challenges in Norwegian school, are cut off. So these are tests that are an important tool for a lot of teachers, and as for all the overmeasures, 4 million have been used. kr on through 2016 to prepare for 2017. It's a little bit of an efficiency trick. It shows how headless this so-called efficiency cut is when it actually leads to direct waste of money. What we see is that the consequences of the cutbacks of the civil parties are that this will be less of a stake in important learning support, while maintaining its priority of control and ranking. This is possible for Stortinget to intervene. In the last few days, 119 researchers, teachers, principals and teachers have spread a bulwark against the closure of the typing tests. I have therefore allowed myself in the debate today to promote a loose proposal to stop this cut, this closure. So here, Stortinget has an opportunity to meet the professionals and stop this right here and now. With that, I take up the SV's proposal, which is distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10622	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10627	Good Saturday! I will assume responsibility for both the budget and – I guess – the cooperation parties must also assume responsibility – for us sitting here on a Saturday. But the result hasn't been so great anyway. It has become a budget for knowledge – a cooperation budget and a cooperation compromise that strengthens important efforts, for which the government parties are also pleased. First a little about the background: We knew from the first moment when the oil price fell in Norway, that the switchover – as among others. The right has been talking about for many years – came to come faster, clearer and beat us harder than many expected. Of course, the government is not responsible for the fall in the oil price, but we have been responsible for ruling in a situation that has been very difficult. One of the most important investments in a transition period is just knowledge and research — from kindergarten to school and up to universities, colleges and research institutions. The budget that we presented continues to invest in knowledge because it is also important for the conversion of Norway. But knowledge is also important for a lot of other things. One of the things that knowledge and knowledge efforts may be most important is to counteract increasing and unfortunate differences — and there are both cultural differences and economic differences. The most important challenge in Norway is if several people are lagging behind. I am not so concerned as to look at the details of the annual income statistics – there may be, for example: Changes in tax rules take place from one year to another — but I am concerned that the focus on education and knowledge is one of the most important efforts we can have to prevent increasing exclusion, which in worst cases could end up with a new, permanent social subclass. Knowledge is also important for cultural integration, precisely because the school is one of the common arenas where most children and young people meet. At school you have to learn some knowledge that you need and will carry with you for the rest of your life, but you also have to go into a community. You're going into a cultural community, and you're going into a part of an important nation-building process that's going on today. What students with Somali parents, Iraqi parents, parents from Porsground, parents from Iran or from Poland have in common when they come to Norway is that they are all Norwegian children in Norwegian classrooms. In both the budgetary agreement and the budget we presented – the last budget before the election – it is possible to see the long-term efforts of this government. I think it's one of the important things to come up with, because the point of a budget is not to come back every single year, but to build up under some long-term efforts that strengthen the foundations of the knowledge society. It has already been mentioned that during the previous government it was, for example: research appropriations went up and down like a yes, and student housing appropriations went up and down like a yes — they tended to increase sharply before each single choice — while in this period long-term, stable bets are seen. In school, there's a lot of evidence that we're on the right track. The number of primary school credits in school is increasing. We have signs of positive trends in TIMSS and PISA, which were recently reported. Not least, it is gratifying that we have a clear progress in real science compared to 2012. Therefore, the government continues to invest in basic skills in school, with a real-time vocational training effort. We still have the great effort to build a five-year master's education for teachers. It starts from the fall. It's not just a conversion where we get more of the same, but also a quality promise. The government also proposed a reinforced effort for early efforts. We would give that money through free money to the municipalities. They have now been converted into earmarked funds for teaching positions in 1–4. Great, and I'm very comfortable with that. It also gives me an opportunity to comment briefly on the discussion about more teachers and the results of it: the truth is that the research is bursting in this regard, but in general, there is nothing to suggest that more teaching positions themselves provide better learning for the students. What could be the case, however, is that if you use more teaching positions in a good and correct way, it can provide better learning for the students. That's why the government has warned that we're going to present a bill for a reinforced obligation for the schools to provide intensive training to the students who are following, early in the school run. It is also likely to require more teaching positions. Otherwise, it's worth asking the question whether SV will have more teachers into the classroom, or whether they'll really just have more teachers for more school hours. How SV is going to get their math, with both full-time school, several school hours and thus more teachers, to go up and say that they want fewer students per teacher, is a mystery. We're taking new steps towards a professional lift. The educational grant is strengthened by the budgetary agreement, and I am pleased to – NOK 20 000 in increase during this period. The previous two periods stood in practice on the ground. The professional teacher lift continues. We're going through the vocational study programmes. I agree that it takes a little too long, but the reason for this is also that we are going to cooperate with the parties. We introduce practical letters as mandatory arrangements in all counties. We come with a strengthened apprentice clause. And not least, this budget is a profession for the vocational schools, a school team that has been under-prioritized for many years – I would say, almost unanimously treated – and which is absolutely essential for us to be able to build an overall educational cycle for good world-class professionals. So are we done raising for the professions? In no way, but we're taking important steps, and we're going in the right direction. In the field of research, we also continue our efforts. When we presented a long-term plan for research and higher education, it was not surprising in itself that there was a plan that looked forward in time. That would have been done every year. The alarming thing was that there were concrete promises there, and the concrete promises are being fulfilled; they have been fulfilled in every budget and have been reinforced by budgetary agreements. This means that the research budgets have gained predictability instead of jojo policy. You have e.g. had predictability of EU funding and of the funding of scholarship holders. For the higher education sector, the budget is subject to changes. The new financial instrument was – as pointed out here – widely agreed on the indicators, but there was concern about it being too hard hit. The financial instrument is now being implemented over three years. At the same time, some of the institutions that come out poorly will also be compensated for it. I'm happy about that. I also think it is good that the agreement has given several places to study. In the end, we often spend too little time talking about adults and their skills. In our society today, learning is not what you're done with at the moment you're finished in school. Learning takes place throughout your life. One of the most interesting findings in international research is that Norwegian adults do better than their school results — why? Well, that's because they've been out in work and learned. It's an area that's had little attention for years. There has been little effort. Competence policy is important. It is essential for each employee, for example: if new machinery, software or new processes are introduced at work that you need to learn. It is essential to prevent social dumping, for example: we have good, unbureaucratic arrangements for example. Polish carpenters can learn Norwegian at work. And it is crucial for the transformation of society. There will soon be a national strategy of competence policy, which we have worked closely with the parties to achieve. There probably won't be anyone in the hall here reading about the front page of the VG, but it's anyway one of the most important things I've been working on in this period. In sum, the budget is a forward-looking budget. There is a continuation of the great efforts on knowledge, on further training, on competence, on basic skills, on research, on the quality of higher education and on lifelong learning that this government, together with the cooperation parties, has been performing throughout this period. But it is not said that we are done. There's a lot left, there's a lot of challenges that we're still going to face. That is why there is good reason why this majority should also continue to invest in knowledge over the next majority period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10669	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10674	Let me first congratulate the Council of State as a newly baked father. We are both in a situation where we have not been excessively in close contact with the budget call of the committee, but left it to others. Perhaps disappointingly, the world manages without us! However, there are important issues in the budget that, in my view, are unclear. We both know as parents and as politicians that good teachers and many teachers are the key to a good school. In 2016, we saw a dramatic decline in the search for the teaching profession. In particular, primary teacher training 1–7. the decline is severe, not because there are no graduates who have 4 maths and are qualified to enter, but because they do not apply for teacher training. If the teacher is most important, how should the government ensure a completely different development in teacher recruitment than what appears to be the case under the leadership of this Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10681	Let me congratulate the representative Giske as a father. I don't know if I've said it from this pulpit before, so at least we'll get it into the history books. If you look at the recruitment of the teacher's study, it's not like someone's got the impression that there's been a dramatic decline this year. If you, for example, Compared to 2008, there are many — over 1 000 people, as far as I remember — who have entered the teacher’s study with the grade 4, which is a requirement. But it is quite right, as the representative Geske points out, that we have an additional challenge for primary school teachers, and especially in the north, which is the biggest challenge. I don't think it's a good idea to lower the requirements. I believe that the Left and Christian People's Party, perhaps especially the Left, has got in, a reward scheme for masters, can be a contribution to better recruitment. I believe that if the recruitment, especially in the north, to primary and primary school teaching continues to be too low, we need to consider additional measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10690	I'm actually a little worried about the Council's answer, because the situation is just critical. We could have serious teaching shortages in a few years. But not only that, we have to make sure that the most competent, most motivated, knowledge-rich, stimulating and inspiring young people enter the teaching profession. This is Norway's most important job, and generation after generation will be trained. We see that we have a dramatic flaw. Most teacher studies are open, many have vacancies, and very many with the best grades from higher education go to studies other than the teaching profession. It is most dramatic for primary school teacher education. There's a huge gender difference, there's a lot of good girls, but we also have to have the boys. In the Council of State's own area, the University of Southeast Norway, there are classes with only girls left, all the boys have left. In other places, you tell me the same thing. It must be the government's job to make sure that young people want to go into school. Speak up, reduce bureaucracy, give freedom and confidence to use the subject! These are suggestions on how to get more people into the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10695	I'm 100 pst. agree with the reasoning that we need to get the best — and motivate the best — students in Norway to want to get into what is Norway’s most important profession, namely the teaching profession, there is no doubt about it. What could contribute to that? For example, raising teacher training to a master’s degree — which the Workers’ Party has been reluctant to do, it may be the right way to describe it — can be an important contribution, precisely because it increases the performance and quality of the studies, and it will also help to attract more people’s interest. So, as I said, having clear, high entry requirements to get into the teacher's study is part of a long-term recruitment strategy, simply because it sends a signal that this is an important profession. Otherwise, the Workers' Party has previously been active in this room in order for us to have the grade 4 as a requirement to get in. I think there is a lot that should be tempted by working in Norwegian school, which is now on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10702	I agree with the Council of State that the cooperation parties have put in place good knowledge budgets during this ageing period, and we will also have that in place for 2017. I'm glad we've got a bet at the folk colleges, even though the government has suggested cutting them. I think high school is an important school battle. Many have a very good year in high school, and for some it becomes the most important year in life, even in learning. Now we're on a good path towards eleven months of student support for all those who study at a university or a college, but not for those who choose to take a year at a high school, even though high school students have the same number of school days in a year. They teach on Saturdays and often on Sundays. They have no more opportunities in a year than other students to take a job and get other income besides. My question is, why does the Council of State think that high school students should not be entitled to 11 months of study support?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10710	One of the main reasons for 11 months of study support is that for some students the year of study is actually much longer than the period of study support. That is, you have the last exams far out in the eleventh month, if you could say it that way. That's not the case for the folk colleges. They have a much shorter academic year, and that's why I have previously suggested reducing support, so that they would only get for the period they actually go to high school. I think it would be unreasonable to fund high school students with a scholarship and a loan from the common fund far into a period when they are far too far out of high school. It's simply a bad use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10715	I too would like to congratulate the Council of State as a father again. In the morning issue of December 9th, the Council of State had an article there, among others. said that PISA ‘contributes to define a government period as successful or failed’. The council also said in a previous line change that we were now on the right track. The truth is, we're back again at the same level as when we got the PISA shock, in 2000. Then we learned that it was like traveling to the World Ski Championships and not bringing medals home again. At the same time, the government chooses to cut out the learning-support type tests, but retains the PISA tests. My question, then, is it more important to have tests for the sake of politicians, for the sake of ranking, or is it more important to have tests for the benefit of students, in order to learn better?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10724	It is important to have tests in school that are both for the students, for the teachers, for school management, for the politicians and for society for the rest. With regard to the learning-support tests for writing, I have also received several written questions about that, which I will answer. It has never been politically determined how many such tests you should have. This is something left to the Directorate of Education, based on their professional judgements and, of course, on the budgetary framework available to the Directorate of Education. Therefore, in this case, I have been comfortable with the fact that when the Education Directorate says that they will have a full review of their offer of learning-supporting tests, it also gets this consequence. Finally, the reason that a PISA shock occurred in 2000, was not that it was the worst results ever – they came in 2006 and also in 2003, for some subjects – it was that we thought we were the best, but not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10733	The council says he has received several written questions about the learning-support tests. Among other things, he has got one from me, which I have not received a reply yet. SV has submitted a loose proposal in the Chamber, and we shall vote on it. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State now what he means by the priority that the Education Directorate has done here, because the arguments that come from the Writing Centre are, in my opinion, good. So here we're talking about tests that promote learning, here we're talking about a work that's gone on over time. If you cut out this work now, you kind of lose the continuity that's been there. It seems difficult for me to see the justification for the priorities set by the Education Directorate. Now we see only one side – from those who come to us with the arguments – but I would like to hear from the Council of State why this should be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10740	My reason is that I do not intend to review Udir's professional assessments of this, i.e. that as of today I have no plans to go in and give Udir any other information than the one they have – and the way in which they have managed their professional mandates. So, of course, it's quite possible for the Storting to discuss it. First of all, the reasons given by the Education Directorate are that these samples are of little use. That's what the Education Directorate thinks. The second is that they want a complete review of all the learning-supporting tests. The third is budget. I am in favour of having efficiency cuts in the administration. I believe that there is room for considerable efficiency in, for example: Directorate of Education. However, it is not automatic to increase the efficiency gain and not expect it to have any consequences, even because Udir has been cut in previous rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10749	Since the Council of State now says he is comfortable with Udir's priority, it means that Storting's only opportunity to do something about this is to vote for SV's proposal. My question related to this is the very concept of ‘efficiency reduction’. I think the last government council said was very interesting. Every time we've taken up these cuts in the last few weeks, we've been met by the government with the great efficiency potential in the public sector. I do not disagree with the fact that there is efficiency potential and unnecessary bureaucracy, but this is an example of what is called efficiency reduction, going beyond professional activities. You're flying under a false flag when you say it's an improvement in efficiency. I would recommend the government to communicate more honestly, and I would simply ask the Council of State whether he agrees with me in this: this is not an efficiency cut, this is a professional priority and should not be launched under the concept of ‘efficiency improvement’. There won't be fewer bureaucrats of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10756	Firstly, it was nice to hear the SV manager use the term ‘necessary bureaucracy’. That's fine. I believe that the principle in this matter is simply about how we should govern the public sector. I believe that it is not unreasonable with an efficiency gain of 0.8. 0.5 is what the government has laid down, and that's probably what you should stick to in the years that come. I believe that this can be done by just improving efficiency. So anyway, when we have underlying agencies, they have some professional powers that they manage. There have also been other cuts and reductions to the Education Directorate in previous years that have made them even before this – because the government wants what we want a disciplined, strictly controlled central administration – have had to make priorities. There is not necessarily the main reason why the learning support tests are now being re-established, but there is one element of it. I believe, as I said, that the efficiency gain is primarily that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10771	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10776	It's when the budgets are designed to see what the parties are really prioritizing. The Labour Party has a budget for more jobs, health, climate and better school policies as well as early work, more teachers, efforts to combat bullying, professionalism, more places of study and ICT for a modern school. For the fourth year in a row, the government has prioritised tax cuts in front of most others. The result has been summed up quite well on the front page of the Class struggle today: ‘Increasing inequality with the blues’ is the title. 2015 was the first year Norway was run by a state budget that the Right and the Progress Party had made from the bottom of. The SSB has published the statistics on economic inequality, and all the inequality objectives show that the differences have increased. The richest are getting away. 4 600 more children end up below the poverty line, while almost no new jobs are created. The reason is that this government has one really big investment: they spend a lot of money on tax cuts that are distorted socially. Schools are actually being eaten with crumbs. When we debate inequality here at Stortinget, the Right often draws out knowledge as one of the solutions to the differences challenges. But it assumes that school, kindergarten and education are made winners in the annual budgets. In four years, the Right Party and the Advance Party have increased the use of oil money by 100 billion. kr. Only from 2016 to its 2017 budget proposal, the government increased the oil money use by 15 billion. kr. School has received 1.4 pst. of this increase. Schools have in fact lost their budget fight against tax cuts. It is this reality of the Christian People's Party and the Left's meetings when they are negotiating budgets with the government parties. They will change a government budget where there is no climate, cultural policy, district policy, the unemployed or the school that is the winner. The winners of the budget are again Norway's richest. When we discuss the education budget, the Minister of Knowledge often boasts of actions he has not fought into the budget, or efforts Right and the Advance Party have not prioritised themselves. The truth is, the Christian People's Party and the Left have saved the school budgets for four years. And we have a knowledge minister who administers a school policy he largely disagrees with. If the four state budgets presented by the Right and the Advance Party had been fascist, what would we have? Well, I'd like to get: no new teachers no new study places no 11-month study aid On the other hand, we would be cut off in high schools, in student associations, in expatriation grants, we would get school money for foreign students and much more. We have also seen that the government and the Minister of Knowledge have had to withdraw after the withdrawal: in the case of the nursery notice, where the Storting changed the course considerably In the case of compulsory examination in three subjects in secondary school, a clear majority in Stortinget opposed the proposal in the case of absenteeism, the government had to go a penalty round after the case had been in Stortinget, in the case of lucky facial garments, the government had to turn new higher education funding system was criticised, adjusted and compensated when it came to Stortinget And the Ministry of Knowledge budgets have been changed time and time again. All honors to the Christian People's Party and the Left who have fought hard, received more teachers and taken out petty cuts – year after year. However, the job done in the budget negotiations often appears to be more of a limitation of damage. The reason, as in climate policy, cultural policy and district policy, is that the focus of Norwegian school policy is not on the right. Now the cooperative parties have again used energy to reverse an actionless budget. But it didn't have to be like this. There's a majority on Stortinget. for more teachers in school, against the right and the will of the Party of Advancement for several places of study, against the will of the Right Party and the Advance Party for a stronger investment in ICT in the school, where the right and the front-facing parties draw their legs The working party shall have in its alternative budget: billion bets for early effort and more teachers 3 000 study places 3 000 student housing a lift for university and higher education buildings; We're going to spend 100 million dollars more effort on bullying. kr on ICT lifting a professional lift of 325 million. kr more than the government has We have a government that has the center of gravity on the right, but neither in school policy is it where the majority of the population really is. The parties that share the ambition of more teachers and more knowledge could achieve more together than what we have seen as a result in the last four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10864	There is little doubt that the representative Henriksen is trying to find a very selective story of history when he stands up here and contributes to the debate in the hall. We should rather look back at the 2013 elections. The right hand warned very strongly at the time when the Norwegian economy depended on the oil sector, and it became clear that this was faster right than we had feared. The oil price has halved since the government took over, and the need for conversion of the Norwegian economy has been great. The right in the opposition was concerned about this for a very long time, and there was a clear policy from our side. It is good that we now have a government that, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has helped to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness and contributed to safer jobs, as opposed to the Workers' Party, where financing of promises must now either be lubricated with more oil money or increased taxes on Norwegian ownership – at a time when we need more of new businesses, new jobs, new ideas and more entrepreneurs. If we are to ensure lasting well-being, we must create more – not more taxes. Norway needs more private jobs to contribute to the State budget, not more living in the state budget. For the Right, it's important that we contribute to job creation, and that's our highest priority task. That is why we are focusing on knowledge, research and innovation. That's why we build more roads, that we strengthen the social security trampoline, and that's why we guarantee companies competitive conditions. Today, we are dealing with an offensive knowledge budget that promises the knowledge society, which helps more people get into work, which ensures increased activity, and which demands the necessary transformation. This is how we take Norway safely through the long-term transition. The right and government's commitment to the knowledge society is a holistic approach — from kindergarten to students, students and adults. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we raise the quality of kindergartens. We're already starting social cohesion with learning through games. At school, in addition to the promise of continuing education, we have also had a solid boost in early schooling. Giving our children the early feeling of mastery will give them the learning joy and motivation that help more people get a better day at school. Several will complete and pass out in vocational training, where together we are once again lifting efforts against the professions. Particular emphasis is placed on vocational training. When Norway is in transition, the future will require more skilled workers, including at a high level. The statistical central agency has previously estimated that Norway will lack as many as 110 000 skilled workers in construction, electronics and mechanical engineering by 2030. The NHO competence barometer has also shown that five out of ten enterprises report the need for master’s competence. As the bourgeois parties pointed out in the opposition, we have been in overtime with a professional investment. Politicians should be measured by how to prioritize and deliver when you have power. On the road to election year 2017, it is therefore appropriate to note that the new bourgeois majority on the Grand Duchy has given Norway a change of pace in the focus on knowledge, research and not least on vocational training, which has now been given a real boost and a clear political focus. In addition to the professional correction of the common subjects, the examination, the review of the programme areas in order to better address the educational needs of the labour market, the requirements for apprentices in public tenders and State activities, the apprenticeship grant is now increased for the seventh time in just over three years, i.e. to NOK 20 000 more per contract. Before this, the investment in apprentices was almost totally absent for over ten years. And it does more. Apprenticeships with special needs are given increased support, letters of practice are required, vocational trainers are offered continuing training, there is a high level of professional higher education, and in the budget there is now a commitment to this through quality in the vocational schools. A number of measures are now being proposed through the submission of the report on vocational education and training in Norway to raise vocational education and training to new heights. We are faced with a paradigm shift, I would say, in vocational training, which is a good thing when skilled professional workers are going to become very central to the further development of Norwegian industry and industry. There is little doubt that the reforms and policies taken by the government to strengthen the knowledge society will help build good welfare services, equip Norway for the future and strengthen our ability to adapt. Our solutions and ideas will make Norway better equipped to meet a future where we need more economic engines, and where we use our tax money smarter. That way, we can remain confident that our welfare systems can be strengthened into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10890	The great British statesman Edmund Burke once wrote: ‘Clean economy is not economic. Expenditure, large expenditure, may be an essential part of a good economic policy.» In the current situation in Norway, this is a most valid reality. In this budget, expenditure is high, but expenditure on research and education is investment that will ensure value creation and well-being for the population of Norway. This budget invests in the future of Norway. There are a number of concrete measures in the budget that testify to offensive and targeted thinking. Here I want, among other things. promote a 68 million strengthening of the vocational education sector. kr to development funds in 2017, which must be seen in the context of the progress report on vocational education submitted on 2 December. In the context of the Teacher Lift, new, five-year master-level primary school teacher training is introduced from 2017. It will provide more competent teachers and thus better education in school. The rate of recruitment continues, with 50 additional posts in the budgetary agreement at the top of the government proposal. In doing so, the government has allocated funds to a total of 542 recruitment posts for the long-term research and higher education plan. In addition, funding is provided for 2 500 new student homes, and the first stage of the gradual introduction of 11 months of study support over four years is implemented. In the last four budgets, the government has increased research and development appropriations by a total of 5.1 billion. NOK, in addition to the price increase. The TaxFUNN Facility is strengthened and funds are provided to stimulate increased participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation and 100 million. kr more in permanent funding for the research infrastructure. Some claim that well-funded public universities are the most important for innovation. Others believe that it is in the entrepreneurial environment that innovation takes place. Others again believe that it is the big companies that are driving innovation forward. We in the Progress Party believe that they are all right. That is why we are pleased that there is a broad commitment to strengthening Norway’s innovative capacity and future value creation. This will facilitate the development and growth of the welfare society of today and the future. There is a holistic thinking behind the knowledge effort in the budget. Norway must have good education at all levels, from kindergarten, primary, secondary and adult education to vocational schools, colleges and universities. In future Norway, the Progress Party also believes that the oil sector will continue to provide us with high revenues for decades to come. Equally full is the future uncertain, and it's going to be less money to distribute to us politicians. We can no longer expect to be able to spend hundreds of millions, not to say billions, on symbolic items, public consumption and inefficient structures. Increased value creation depends on our being able to roll back to the state. We must continue to improve the framework conditions for real values, which means that we need to lower taxes and taxes even more, and provide incentives for value-creating investment in research and business. If we are to achieve real growth and value creation, there must be more jobs in the private sector. Now we have to be clear that it is in the private business that the value creation takes place. There are now many new jobs to be created, and that development must continue. Innovation and value creation must therefore be even stronger in our educational and research institutions if we are to have hope of future prosperity and well-being for the citizens of Norway. Finally, I would also like to mention that it is gratifying to note the comments made by an overall Committee on Transport and Communications in the context of the budgetary procedure, where the Committee welcomes the plans for the research and testing arena of future automotive technologies and intelligent transport systems, which are being developed at Hell Arena. There are great opportunities to play a leading role in the development of future traffic systems, involving heavy players such as SINTEF, NTNU, Nord universitet and ITIC in South Carolina. It will be an important area for the further investment in road safety, and not least in research and development in future Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10916	The saying says that the one waiting for something good is not waiting in vain. And guess if we waited – but for something good? I think we would rather say that the person waiting for a completely necessary adjustment is not waiting in vain. This year as last year, and the year before there again, we see the same pattern. The government is putting forward a rather narrow knowledge budget. Most are continuations of bets from last year, or the year before there again, or the year before there again – bets on which there is essentially much agreement in this room. Or wait a minute: is there really agreement? For this year as last year, and the year before there again, it is the Christian People's Party and the Left that ensure that the budget is adjusted more in the direction agreed by the majority in this Chamber. I have great sympathy for the fact that it must be frustrating to cooperate with parties where a bet on several teachers every year has to be forced through in twelve hours. And not enough: the government parties even argue against the bet on more teachers. The working party is clear that we want more teachers at school. We are making a big effort. We want to introduce a read, write and calculation guarantee to ensure that all students have the necessary follow-up so that they quickly learn the basic skills. In our alternative state budget, we cancelled over 1 billion. kr more than the government party proposed, for early efforts and more teachers. But primary school is also more than primary school, and I'm a little concerned that high school gets a little bit in the shade. The youth school is three important years, three years in which there is an enormous amount of happening in the lives of students, where there are tougher demands for personal and professional development, and where the transition to higher education is a critical point. The Labour Party does not wish to remove the grant for 600 teaching positions in secondary school. In Telemark, Skien and Porsgrund lose grants to under 30 teachers. A Vice-Chancellor in Skien expressed strong concern in Telemarksavias at the end of November. He said, «Many students have received much extra help thanks to these additional jobs. And it's given better results. In addition, students who are not well-being at school have improved.’ But that quote unfortunately helps little as long as the Right believes otherwise. Here the government has decided a long time ago: more teachers in high school are not necessary – yes, let us make sure that it gets fewer. Over the past few weeks, we've been presented with a number of school results, and several of them have been positive. The researchers characterize the results as a bad course, and the last time I checked, it was an old Workers' Party saying. It's hardly random. Many proper grips were made when the Knowledge Lift was introduced in 2006, focusing on basic skills and not least on reading. When they say, "It's the employees, the teachers in school who do the job every day, that we owe a big thank you for your hard work." But the PISA results also tell a different story. Compared to 2003, there are twice as many students who experience bullying and feel outside. We know from the student surveys that 20,000 students experience bullying weekly. Too many students start the math class or the Norwegian class with a lump in their stomachs. The working party believes that measures to combat bullying in school are urgent. We think the government has been too slow to follow up on the work of the Djupedal Committee. We therefore promoted 25 proposals for measures that could be implemented quickly, but which the government parties voted against in the Stortinget. In our 2017 alternative state budget, we came up with a new power cap for a more inclusive school, and we put a total of 100 million. kr to combat bullying. We want security teams against bullying in all municipalities. We want efforts to be made to employ more social educational and environmental advisers in those schools that have had the greatest learning environment challenges over time. We will strengthen school-home cooperation and focus more on the development of the skills of school staff. We want to increase the allocation of organisations that work for inclusion and against bullying. We want to increase the funding for the school health services and health centres by 300 million. kr – to mention something. We want this because it's urgent, because it's necessary, and because safe students learn more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10942	The government's commitment to knowledge, education and research has been evident in all the budgetary rounds of this enlargement – a policy area that has been reinforced by the comparisons with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Over three and a half years, the government and the Minister of Knowledge have held a tough course. To the representative, Bjørnø, I can clearly say that this is a well-known term in the Right as well. We have implemented a tough course and implemented a knowledge policy that provides opportunities for all, regardless of background, and that forms the basis for good social mobility in our society. If we are to succeed in the challenges our country faces now, we need a school where students learn more and are well equipped to participate in society. And we need a education and research sector that can assert itself internationally. Not least, we need a school that can reconcile knowledge dissemination and education. These two aspects of the school’s mission are complementary to each other, and not contradictory, as one can often get the impression of political change. I am pleased that the government has prioritised a knowledge policy with clear fields of activity throughout this process of expansion. It builds soundness and predictability. I would like to draw up some of these initiatives in higher education, at both universities, colleges and colleges. During this period of government, the commitment to the Teachers' League, with a record commitment to continuing training for teachers, has been of great pleasure and benefit to many teachers and school owners, who have long waited for this opportunity. Compared to 2013, the bet has more than tripled – to over 1.3 billion. kr. I share the government's opinion that increasing the quality of teacher training will provide competent and professionally strong teachers, who will make a clear impression in our schools and help students learn more. Therefore, it is a milestone when the new five-year master training for teachers is introduced in autumn 2017. I'm glad that this budget allocates 252 million. kr to ensure that this is properly implemented. I have to say a few words about the professional sector, which the government is implementing, and to which the cooperation parties have also made a strong contribution. This is how, as the representative Gudmundsen said earlier, since this government joined in the fall of 2013, the apprenticeship grant has actually increased by NOK 20 000 per apprenticeship contract. In a situation where large parts of industry and industry are struggling, and it may be difficult to assume responsibility for apprentices, while we know that in the years to come, the working life will have a major shortage of skilled workers, and so this is an important measure. One of the most joyful bets in this budget, as I see it, is the strengthening of the vocational schools by 68 million. kr to development funds, where ten of these came in agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. These means shall be used to promote quality-enhancing measures and to develop the provision of education in the vocational education sector. And the important thing about this is that it has to be seen in the context of the recent news of vocational schools. A greater focus on the quality and capacity of this education segment will help to open up entirely new opportunities for young people who will invest in higher-level vocational training. That is why I am particularly pleased that there is a Right Party government that has so clearly signalled that this school battle should be strengthened, so that this educational path becomes a more attractive alternative to the university and higher education sectors. I have said in several contexts that this area may have been one of the major failing sins of Norwegian education policy for a long number of years. Now something finally happens. It's high time. And it's driven by a Right Party government. On 1 January 2017, an important time gap in the relationship between the Norwegian State and the Church has also been identified, as several have been mentioned earlier in the debate. It is also within our committee area. That's why I'd like to get back to it in a later article, because this is an important time gap for an important social institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10963	This is the government's last budget. It's time for inventory – and we're with the fasit. It shows that the Progress Party and the Right have proposed cutting in the folk colleges, cutting in the student associations, cutting in the Global School, cutting in the web schools, cutting in the Geneva School and cutting in adult education organizations to name something. This was not a large budget line, but a small cut, which would get and have great consequences for those involved. That they have not received a majority for all their proposals, we can thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for, but unfortunately too many are being cut. We have to bet on primary schools, secondary schools, colleges and higher education, but for the Workers' Party it is important that we also take care of other valuable arenas for learning, because all learning can neither be measured nor should be measured in grades, credits or degrees at the university. We need a varied offer, for example. for some of those who are struggling during the training course and where the motivation has failed. Many of them can be given a new gift, gain a mastery feeling and thus a new and different way to education and working life. And the cut list I mentioned in the introduction, is about institutions that can contribute in that way. Last year, the study federations held 44,672 courses with 507,909 participants across the country, from bandrooms to music, from stageroom to theatre production, ensuring both empowerment, continuity and quality in the rich organisational life we have in the voluntary sector. They also do a good job of integration, and many associations have good offers for adults who will strengthen their basic skills in reading, writing and billing. And not least the course and event where refugees receive Norwegian training and language training. This says something about how important they are to our education and social development, and as cultural and traditional carriers to us as a nation. Summary: The study federations represent an arena for training that is not bound by syllabus and exams, but is very valuable for working life, community, organisations and institutions. That's how I could talk about the national colleges and the importance of Geneva School in their fields – schools that help us get the best out of each other, good forces that contribute to good integration, social building, cultural exchange, religious understanding and knowledge of faith and traditions between all people in our country. The representative Gudmundsen said that the government should be measured on what it prioritizes. Well, then it's just for the voters to notice that these are not priority areas for the sitting government. However, once we have a study association, we believe that, like other parts of the voluntary sector, the study federations need to develop on their own premises within the existing legislation. It is important that the grant they receive is predictable and that the scheme is flexible, so that it can cover a broad societal purpose where user management and local needs are taken into account for which courses are offered. In this setting, there is a comment from the Right and Advance Party, which refers to a comment last year on adult training, which they are now using as a reason to give guidance on what the study federations are to offer and the direction they are to take. I just want to make it clear that the Workers' Party did not attend any comment on this last year either. Since the Grund-School, set up by the Stoltenberg II government, presented its NOU two years ago, the Workers' Party has been waiting for the vocational education message. Finally, it's here, and we're happy about that. But there is a great need for more skilled workers, and the need is no less in the future – something the representative Gudmundsen was very concerned about too. But the Workers' Party has proposed an increase of a thousand places over three years and has granted money for this in 2017, which the majority and Gudmundsen unfortunately vote against. When we received the post-secondary education message on 2 December, our comment was that this looked positive and interesting, and that we looked forward to the major work. We were somewhat surprised when the Right Party and the Advance Party in the budgetary position entered conclusions – before we had a hearing, before a good, broad and democratic treatment. Now, individual representatives have been out and concluded with both study credits and state funding in the past, and the parties probably have certain opinions on the occasion of the case, and that is of course quite right. It is also up to each party whether you are interested in listening to other people than themselves, but we believe it is in the setting of the vocational school message that we will conclude on the subject schools. Now they're alone in the conclusion, and that's good. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Centre Party and the SV were not there either, and I can guarantee on behalf of the Workers' Party that we will add up to a thorough and good treatment. It deserves to be done. It deserves the colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e10982	On 1 January 2017, we get a clear distinction between the State and the Norwegian Church. It's an important event in the millennial history of the Church that takes place in a few days. The process out here has taken some time. It is based on the reforms of the state church system that have been in progress almost continuously since the 1980s. We've taken one step at a time. The 2008 church agreement and the changes to the Constitution in 2012 were important landmarks on the road. The legal basis for the change that occurs on 1 January was dealt with by the Storting earlier this year. Today, the financial framework that the Church will receive in 2017. The church came up with some criticism when the government's draft budget was presented. However, I believe that the proposal we made would have provided the Church with a sound financial framework. But through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Church is now getting an increase in its 60 million framework grant. kr. The Seaman's Church also receives an increase on proposals from the Left and Christian People's Party. I am pleased that the Church is now, in total, getting a better framework for its activities than the proposal that was initially there. So the Christian People's Party and the Left have made this budget better. Now it is the Church meeting that will decide how to distribute and use the money. The admission which the Church has to dispose of itself of the state's appropriations is a natural and important consequence of the Church's release from the state. The Church gets greater autonomy, but also a great financial responsibility. The Church will certainly face many and major challenges, but they are well prepared. I'm sure the Church will master the transitions that are coming, in a good way. At the same time, I think it is good that we review the situation, and that is why I look forward to meeting the proposal that the Committee is putting forward today, namely that the government in the revised budget for 2017 should come back with a review. With the legal and economic framework that will now apply in the Norwegian Church, I am sure that there is a good basis for the Church to continue to fulfil its role as a church of the people. In the church reforms we have carried out, stability and continuity have been important values. My expectation is that the changes that take place from 1 January will not change the character of the Church as an open church. In this church there's room for everyone who wants to belong there. I trust that this responsibility and this task will be carried out in the very best way by the Church. We are not completely finished with the church reform work when we now establish the Norwegian Church as a legal and economic independent entity outside the state. The next reform phase has already begun. The aim is a full revision of the legislation currently applicable to the religious and life-view societies, including the law of the Norwegian Church. I believe the time has come to see the legal provisions on the Norwegian Church and other religious and life views in the context. Therefore, the ambition is to establish a common law for all religious and life-view societies. For the Norwegian Church, it would be appropriate to repeal many of today's legal provisions, so that legislation becomes a framework. At the same time, we aim to propose new financial instruments to the communities of faith and life, as the Stortinget asked the government in a request decision last December. The work on new legislation and financial instruments is now under way in the Ministry. I hope to be able to send the matter to the hearing before the summer next year. At the same time, we are working on a growing message of belief and life-sight policy. Faith and life-seeking policies affect many areas of society, and on an initiative – an excellent initiative, I would say – from the Left we are in the process of a big message on this. In the Communication, we want to discuss the issue of belief and life views in a wider societal and cultural policy framework. It is a demanding field, where our Christian cultural traditions are challenged by other and often more foreign cultural traditions. New religions, new customs and cultural expressions have come and affect our social life, work and everyday life. We also see this in the fact that there are constantly new discussions about whether the children should be allowed to walk around the Christmas tree without having permission from home, if you are to be allowed to go into the service of Christmas – you are allowed to do so, but how the school should practice it. These debates are constantly emerging, and there is a very good opportunity through a big message to discuss these issues in a broader perspective. This is important because we need to work together to find solutions that reflect the multiplicity that is increasingly influencing Norwegian society. I think the way forward is through dialogue and conversation. If we're to live together together in a multicultural and multicultural society, we need more than ever to listen to each other and understand each other, to be safe and secure from each other's point of view. Then you must also be clear in your stand. Being neutral is also a choice, but I am not sure that it contributes to greater understanding and more security. We who belong to the Christian cultural community and are engaged in passing on the Christian cultural heritage shall not be silent. We expect to be met with understanding and respect, and with the same respect and understanding we're going to meet other values, other beliefs and other cultural traditions. No one has said that a life - visioned society will be free of disunity and strife. The political debate on what framework we are going to have in the open society of life will certainly also bring many suggestions and different solutions to the table. I look forward to good political discussions on this in the future in the Grand Duchy and good cooperation with the Committee, which I believe it has been so far. I hope it continues with the big and difficult things we have in this field, also in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11005	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11010	When we dealt with the church law and decided that the church would become its own legal entity from 1 January, the economy was also a big question. In this context, the Committee agreed that ‘the current level of government appropriations to the Norwegian Church should be taken into account’. The Committee also said that the changes should lead to the Church ‘maintaining and strengthening its role as a national church’. Since the government presented its draft budget, we have had many discussions and meetings with the Church's staff, all of whom say that the assumptions on which the committee based were broken in the proposal. This was also evident in the Committee's budgetary hearing, and, as the Council of State itself said, she is well aware of the Church's view. The question then arises: does the Council of State mean that the Church does not speak the truth when they believe that the budget was not sound?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11017	I believe that the government's proposal is based on the fact that the Norwegian Church has a potential for more rational operation after it is separated from the state. 15 state enterprises will be grouped together in the new legal entity as a separate enterprise. I believe that the equity grant of 100 million. kr gives the Church sound equity, and I believe that the framework we have set is a framework that the Church should be able to deal with. Now we're increasing the frame by 60 million. So after the deal, we're up to 1.97 billion. kr. That I think would be a good starting point for the Church to have a good drift.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11024	Another point in the distinction now to be made from 1 January is about the church officials who will not be employed in the new legal entity but who will still be employed in the State. As far as I know, there are currently seven-eight officials, and that probably means a cost of approx. Seven million. kr. Why does the government think it is right that the Church should pay the salary for someone who is not employed in the legal entity? Or, in other words, does the Council of State consider it right and fair that the State does not pay its own employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11029	With regard to the issues that the representative mentions, we have a dialogue with them, from the Ministry's point of view, to try to find good solutions. It is a great responsibility what the Church is now charged with. There are great opportunities for the Church, but the distinction that is to happen now also imposes on the Church some challenges and a responsibility that we try to be in good dialogue with them to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11034	Now we're writing history: in 15 days, the Norwegian Church will become its own legal entity and an independent religious community outside the state. I'm glad we got an increase in the grant to the Church in the conciliation, so we drop a situation where the first Church has to do is to cancel a large number of priests. Then I am glad that the Council of State has noticed that the Storting is now asking for an assessment in the revision of a possible need for strengthened equity. But the Christian People's Party did not get through everything we wanted with regard to the church budget, and I want to follow up on the previous question about the government's wish to send the bill to the Church for those who reserve the right to be employed in the new legal entity and choose to remain state employees. Now the Council of State says there's a dialogue going on, and my question is, is the government open to the fact that the government itself takes the financial responsibility for those who choose to remain employees in the state, or is the idea that the Church is still to be drawn into the grant for those who remain state employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11042	It's a dialogue, and I'll answer in this way: we'll come back with a clear answer to what we're going to do with those relative, I'll say, get the things that have appeared up to now, but that we have to deal with in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11047	There are enough people who are concerned about whether we are able to maintain a broad nation church throughout the country, both those who are employed in the Church itself, and those who are believers, or belong to this religious community. So I'm very happy that the Christian People's Party and the Left have increased the framework grant, which is very, very important. At the same time, the Council of State, as far as I remember, said that it was important to operate rationally, and that equity of 100 million. kr was enough. I'm glad the Council of State opens up to look at it, because it's after all an organization with 1,600 employees, and 100 million. kr is not then very, very much. It is difficult to recruit for performance positions and difficult to recruit for performances throughout the country. I wonder if the Council of State is concerned about the future possibility of the presence of a broad people's church throughout the country, in each municipality. Because there are many opportunities to reduce the number of parishes while maintaining services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11056	That is a good question the representative asks. It also means that there is now a certain special treatment for the Church, because they have a responsibility – and are entrusted with a responsibility from the Stortinget – that none of the other religious and life-view societies have, and that is exactly what the representative points out: presence throughout the country. Then we have to make sure that this is a good enough economic starting point for the Church to drift on and get priests around the country. The Stortinget was also clear about what they say in relation to the parishes, when we discussed the matter earlier this year. So this is something we have to follow very closely. When we have been very clear that the Church is going to have a presence throughout the country, we must also give them the opportunity to do so, while I also believe that we must make demands for effective operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11063	Nylund School is located in Stavanger, in Storhaug Town, which is perhaps the most multicultural and tolerant district we have in Stavanger. This week the annual debate on school services took a slightly new and perhaps more extreme turn when we could read in Aftenbladet that there was no jubilee service in Nylund, but they should not sing Delicious is the earth – it should be humiliated. And in the Christmas songs, the word ‘dinner’ had been replaced by ‘friends’ and ‘Christmas’ had been replaced by ‘winter’. This made a lot of effort over the country, and you get some reactions on social media that aren't always as lucky. You accuse both one and the other and Muslims – there's no way this can take off. Now we're getting a big message about belief and life's views. I look forward to that. Can the Council of State say something about how we're going to create a framework around this big message that makes us discuss things like this in a slightly bigger context than just blowing up singles every time they show up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11070	I am very pleased with the question from the representative, because that is exactly what the debate over the last few weeks has shown us about different things, including. This psalm is the earth, and how strong it is in the people. It also shows just how important that initiative from the Left was about a big message on this, so the debate is not just black and white, but that we can put it into a larger framework. Then I've also invited the committee to join in and set up that process, because I think the way we now choose to meet these difficult and thoughtful discussions is just by talking about it, spreading knowledge about it and trying to understand it. Then I think it's a little important that we also take the debate outside this room. My invitation is also attached to the Committee on how we can contribute to it in the future, jointly in a cross-political manner, in order to provide a good basis for the large-scale communication to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11081	It was liberating to hear a government council say that the debate on religions must not be black and white. I hope she will repeat that at the government meeting of some of her colleagues. That would be a great advantage. One of the things that Stortinget has asked the Council of State to work on towards the big message is an assessment of whether it is possible to do things related to the support of religious communities that provide us with the means to knock down, for example. extremism or serious cases of social control. It is a demanding question – I am aware of that – but for that very reason, I think it is important that it is thoroughly elucidated. It's been a few months since the Stortinget asked for it, and we haven't had the opportunity to ask the Council of State for a looping message on that work, so I thought I should do it right now and hear how it works, and whether that is how we can expect a proposal from the government in that announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11088	Yes, I will answer that affirmatively: we will come back to that. I fully agree with the representative Lysbakken that it is a very demanding question, but I am very concerned that we have to try to get a good process on the cross-political, and that it is also our responsibility to help not to polarize very many of the difficult questions here more than necessary. But I think it's time to take the debates on that and other of the difficult questions that we might have pushed a little on, and put them into a larger framework through a comprehensive law, but also through this big message. For something will come in the general law that comes before the summer, and then something will be taken up in the big news. Then I hope we can contribute together to a good and thorough debate on these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11093	The cord shift over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11098	My mother uses to say that you notice that you're getting older because it's getting more often and more often Christmas. So we can also say that we notice that we are getting older at the fact that there is a more frequent and more frequent budget debate. They're getting closer and closer, and now we're already at the fourth budget debate in this big period -- the last opportunity to settle accounts, to correct yesterday's mistakes, maybe the last chance for this government and this majority to put their mark on Norwegian school. We know that for the kids the time is going to be completely different. For them, time goes slowly. Four years is a long time for a high school student. The government boasts of what they do, the measures they adopt, and the projects that are being implemented, but the truth is that for the kids they come too late. There's to be new teacher training. The first teacher-trained students who go to school after a new arrangement from this council will meet students who, if they started in the first grade when the council was appointed, will already go to the end of high school. In the case of the accelerated early effort notified from the school year 2018 to 2019, coal will be after coal that has gone from 1 to 4. class under this Council of States, for the longest time be past the early means of intervention, if any. What they want to meet is a high school where it's been cut in the number of teachers. The students who fear going to school, who are bullied and harassed, who suffer life-long health damage, are not helped by the waiting time that agreed to send the Djupedal Committee's investigation to the hearing, sit and assess legislative changes and finally bring a relatively thin package. Young people who today, yesterday, last year and the year before chose teacher training and took other career choices will not be able to easily be recruited back to the teacher's school. If you look at the results that this government has contributed to through four budgets, there is only one thing left for the Right-Fremskrit party government. It is an increase, a further increase, a doubling, of the means of continuing education for teachers, unanimously adopted in this Chamber. It had happened whether Røe Isaksen had become State Council or Erna Solberg Prime Minister, because there was a broad majority for this. Most of the things that the Right boasts of when we meet them for debate outside this Chamber have been settled in budgetary conciliation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. All credit to the Christian People's Party and the Left for drawing budgets in the right direction every year – in the direction of the Workers' Party – to increasing teacher's density, to increased early efforts, to increased bullying or other good measures, but they must be frustrated, all of us, that we lose coal after the coal that misses this. A new ICT strategy comes the last year of the Minister of Education's period. Worst is it in the sector where we really needed to build top skills for new jobs, competitiveness and growth in the years to come. In a situation of 80 000 young people under 30 years of age out of work or education, in a situation of 130 000 unemployed, in a situation of falling oil investment and the need for innovation, this government is hardly going to have a single additional place of study. We have a 50 pst. increase in qualified applicants rejected by Norwegian universities and colleges, from 2013 until today. The Council of State has well now made a record of being the Council of State which has, over most years, been able to avoid making a single substantial contribution to the construction of the university and higher education sectors. That is completely incomprehensible, because this should not even be a political struggle. This is, of course, a strategy for meeting the growing unemployment rate, the need for skills and the demand for relevant labour. This government has had more oil money than any other government. This government has spent more money than anyone before them, but in this sector — knowledge, research, study places, efforts for the future — the results have been very thin. It is the wrong priority, it is the wrong direction, and Norway deserves better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11113	Very often when we discuss school and education policy, it is argued with macro-economics, that the nation needs competence, or that we are in transition. But basically, school policy is about how we meet the six-year-old who goes into the schoolyard for the first time one August morning, let go of Mom and Dad's hand and go into the classroom. What school do we meet that six - year - old? We meet them today with a school that does a lot of good. Very much works well in Norwegian school, but we know that we have two challenges. Students in Norwegian school do not learn enough, and background, the educational level of parents, plays a major role in how to deal with a child at school. Some reason is that for too many years, there has been an equalism in school policy based on the fact that the fairest thing is to treat different students in a completely similar way. But if you do that, what determines how children do it at school will be what happens when they get home from school. Some come home to parents with higher education, who may even have fallen into a position to follow up their children. They are told that they are not allowed to go out and play until they have done their homework, while others come home to an empty house, because Mom and Dad work shifts. There's nothing wrong with it, but it obviously gives a completely different chance of success at school. This is why we need a school policy that focuses much more on just early efforts, which says that two six-year-olds entering school — as different as they are — are going to meet with a school that adapts education and quickly compensates for the differences they have had to bring with them, so that everyone can have the same opportunities. In 2013, all four bourgeois parties went to the elections to do what we know is the most important thing for students' learning, namely to ensure good, competent and professionally up-to-date teachers in the classroom. So far – now we are in the last budget for this period – there has been a teacher's promise. Three times as many teachers receive continuing education every year, compared with under the red-green government. The representative Geske said it would happen anyway. Well, why didn't it happen in eight years, and why does it happen now? We have introduced skills requirements for teachers, which means that all teachers should be immersed in the common subjects in which they teach. We introduce from the fall of a five-year master's education for teachers, and we have introduced recording requirements for teacher training that have created some noise. The representative Geske asked a good question in reply with the Council of State when he asked what to do in order for more people to apply for teacher training. Well, the debate that emerged, also from the representatives of the parties in the education committee after the admission requirements were introduced, I think for some reason, because then it was said that it was completely hairy that some students did not get into the teacher training. No one talks like that about engineering education or the law or medicine study, that it's so sad that someone doesn't come in. It is, of course, a demanding profession and a demanding course of study, and it means, once again, that it should be difficult to get into teacher training. All of this is a requirement that will give results over time, just as the results we now see in Norwegian school, once again as a result of the last civil parties managed and introduced the Knowledge promise, introduced national tests, introduced the first recording requirements for teacher training — took all the steps we now see the results of. So it's been a round of these 600 teaching positions. The representative Lysbakken said that on the civil side we abuse the report we have received. The representative of Tingelstad Wøien says that the report has a great deal of uncertainty. Well, it's just to go back and see what former knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen himself argued with when she introduced this attempt. She said this should make the students learn more, and she said that the evaluation should be based on whether to introduce a teacher's density standard in Norwegian school. You don't even have to read so far in the report, you can read the second sentence in the indent, where it says: ‘The initiative led to a lower average group size in ordinary education, but we find no sign of an increase in pupils’ learning outcomes.’ I must say, I am quite surprised that representatives of the parties who even started the experiment ordered the research report, not now interested in the results of the same research report, because they do not like the results of it. The whole point, of course, is that Norway has a high teacher density. So the question is, does it have an effect if you just generally increase your teacher's density? On the civil side, we disagree. On the other hand, there is a need to invest more teaching resources in 1st to 4th. the steps to meet the six-year-olds I talked about at the beginning, by adapting them to the teaching so that they can come to the same level when they are going to learn the basic skills, it has an effect. But the fact that you don't care about your own research report is quite shocking.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11136	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11141	Talking about the north and north of Norway, you often focus on areas that are rich in important natural resources – and that is, of course, the case. But most importantly, human resources. The high drop-out from secondary education is therefore a serious obstacle to both equalising social and geographical differences and to the development of society in the north. In the last ten years, there has been largely a positive trend in the country, but it is dangerous to settle down on the fact that it is going to continue by itself. With the record-breaking use of oil money that the government has invested in, there was a great opportunity to invest in knowledge about, about and in the north. Instead, the government has invested in large social tax cuts in the order of 20 billion. kr, which essentially does not benefit the northernmost states. The combination of a low school budget and a weak municipal structure, which barely covers the bills that lie there, affects the ability of the municipal sector to invest in the children, the pupils and the future. For Troms and Finnmark, the budget agreement unfortunately meant that a precarious economic situation for county municipalities in the north became even worse through new cuts. It is the county councils that are responsible for secondary education. The implementation in Finnmark is increasing. However, a pressurised economy in municipalities and county municipalities will necessarily undermine the ability of school owners to develop quality and performance. That is why the local economy needs to be strengthened. In the spring – in the context of another report on high school dropout in the north – the Minister of Knowledge said that he would send experts northwards. My acquaintance has not sent any experts so far, and it may not be that dangerous either. Strengthening the implementation of higher education requires more than guest appearances in the national community. The most important thing is to train and recruit new experts, namely teachers who can make a targeted effort over time. That's what's required. This is why the Workers' Party proposes to improve the study funding schemes for teachers' students taking up their jobs in North Norway after completing their education. I heard that the Council of State, on its side, earlier in the debate, said that he would consider action as a matter of course. Then I ask, how long will it take for the government to stop waiting and see and actually do something about the recruitment? Students in North Norway do not need more seminars, reports or politicians acting as commentators; students and North Norway need a policy that prioritises school rather than tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11156	It is as the representative Tyvand has said several times in this debate: it is only 15 days until we face a time gap in the relationship between the state and the Norwegian Church. A centuries-old tradition with a state church and a very close relationship between church and state is changing – 500 years after the Reformation, led by Martin Luther, and the establishment of our Evangelical Lutheran Church. With this also an important point is realized in the Sundvolden Declaration of a clear distinction between state and church. This distinction has been prepared here in Stortinget through a number of cases, from the large church settlement in 2008 and 2012 to the last law we had for the second time here yesterday, Prop. 9 L for 2016-2017. This is how we are at the end of a long process, and I have experienced that this has been a process that has had broad support and has been very well worked through, and that there has also been a process that responds to the expectations of the Church. Now the financial envelope is put into this budget, with a grant of €1.97 billion. NOK 100 million and equity. kr. I believe that there is now a good basis for the Church to be mastered in its own house and to be able to discharge its obligations as a nationwide church. Then I understand that there is some uncertainty about such a conversion and not least about the economy in that regard. For this reason, I am pleased that the entire Committee gathered on the budgetary note, which calls on the government to follow up the economic situation in the future and come back to the Stortinge with an assessment of the situation and equity requirements up to the revised national budget for 2017. I would also like to take the opportunity to wish the Norwegian Church good luck with the conversion in the coming year. It's going to be a demanding year, but it's also going to be an exciting year. So I'd like to comment on a completely different relationship, which I would like to comment on in my first post, and it's related to the students' everyday lives. The everyday life of students is an important part of our education policy, and I think it is worth noting that the government and the cooperation parties continue to be very offensive in this year's budget, where 2 500 new homes are supported. In addition, the government is now proposing that the first stage of the planned introduction of 11 months of study support be implemented. This shows that we give students high priority. Spring will also be marked by the rise in the quality of higher education, and the government's efforts to strengthen higher education in Norway – a long-awaited action in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11173	I spent my main post on school and education, so this post I'm going to spend on church stuff as a whole. The Advance Party greatly appreciates the important work done by the Seaman Church for the Nordics abroad. In recent years, the Sjömann Church has been largely involved in helping and assisting the Nordics abroad, including the Nordic countries. in cooperation with the protection of children in the case of Norwegian children who experience external care failures. We are therefore very pleased that in the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left here on the Stortinget it is decided to grant an additional 2.5 million. to the Seaman's Church. Church buildings are historical buildings of great religious, cultural and social value. This applies not only to believers, but also to people who are not part of a religious community. Many of our church buildings need much maintenance and fire protection. It is therefore positive that the government as part of the employment package grants State grants of 25 million. SEK for the repair of church buildings. In addition, the budgetary agreement means that the interest-rate compensation scheme for church buildings is maintained. This will result in several of our church buildings being maintained and upgraded. After many years of work and decisions, the historical distinction between: state and church, on 1 January 2017. This implies that the Church now assumes responsibility for the priests, who since the Reformation in the 1500s have been civil servants. The financial framework for the Church in 2017 is in place. In the budget agreement, the operating grant to the Norwegian Church increased by 60 million. kr. So the grant is $1.97 a.m. kr. It should get a lot out of it. It's a challenge for the Church to control this, but I think that if they look at the way they operate and by other ways of operating, it can go very well. This conversion simply means that it is no longer the Stortinget to allocate the Church's budget, but the money should go for the same purpose as before, among other things. for training in faith. The big change is that the Church meeting is now going to dispose of the funds and give priority to their use. The church is still subject to laws and regulations that prevent it from being entirely mastery of its own house. The Progress Party believes that the Norwegian Church and other religious and life views should have the same legislation and regulations to a greater extent. The government has started to review legislation and financial instruments for all religious and life-seeking communities, and we look forward to the further work of giving the Norwegian Church full freedom, while the Church is still in a special position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11190	Psychiatric disorders are the country’s main health challenge measured by prevalence, burden on children, sick leave, disability, lost years of work, the relationship between the cost of treatment and the cost of not treating, the burden of illness and mortality. This health challenge must be avoided as a society. First of all, we must prevent by creating a health-promoting society. A health-promoting society is a society that ensures children's growing-up conditions, which means that children living in this society get the sense of identity and self-respect, the feeling of being something and being worth something, that makes children and young people feel mastery, that they do something, that helps children and young people to know that they have a place at home and are connected to someone, that they can know about security, that they can think, feel and unfold without being afraid. They must be able to experience social support and social community, know someone who cares, and that they are part of a larger community. Norwegian schools are important for creating such a health-promoting society. Norwegian schools must contribute to giving children and young people identity, self-respect, feeling of maesterdom, belongings, security, social support and social community. Such health-promoting schools with a focus on the whole-skilled learning environment are also crucial to prevent mental disorders and problems in children and young people. The well-being and chiseling of the school are decisive for the pupils' learning outcomes and overall development. Today's young people are more decent, law-abiding and schooling-adapted than before. At the same time, population students show that anxiety, sleeplessness, and hopelessness in view of future increases among our teenagers. We in the Center Party are very concerned about this. What is even more worrying is that several researchers point out that the strict demands of the challenge society on individual chimpanzees can be expected to contribute to such a development. This is serious. In fact, if the Norwegian School of Testing and the measuring regime itself are to help increase the mental pressure on our young people, more parties must go on their own and be willing to change their policies. In the budget, the Centre Party prioritises the reversal of the government's proposed cut in support of the mental health programme at school. We're adding 150 million. in ear-marked funds for a municipal mental health escalation plan which will also be aimed at strengthening the scholastic services. We're also prioritizing 10 million. kr to strengthen mental health care for students. The Central Party will contribute to the creation of health-promoting schools in the budget. Norwegian school needs to get more focus on the whole learning environment. Today's sloppy target management doesn't contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11199	As the Minister for Culture said in his speech, the Norwegian Church is now established as a national legal entity. This will include, inter alia: means that the Church will take over administrative duties and, in particular, employer responsibility. I stress that this matter is a follow-up to the church settlement, so when the representative Vinje presents it as a great and good proof of the government's executive power, it's a bit strange. This distinction stands the whole Norwegian potion behind it, and it would be very alarming if it had not happened. That's about. 1600 staff who are now to be involved in a major reorganization and conversion, and all know that such processes are very demanding. As I said in the change of line, I have received many enquiries and concerns from the staff of the Church after the government presented its draft budget. For the first time, bishops have even been at the door asking for a meeting to present their case. They say that the proposal for a government budget would weaken the ability of the Norwegian Church to provide assistance, guidance and help to people in crisis and who have come into a difficult life situation. The proposal would lead to the centralisation of some functions and to the reduction of the presence and supply in many communities. As an example, I can refer to the Hamar diocese, which would have a subbalance of approximately. $12 million. kr in 2017, which is equal to 15 pst. of the total performance resources — or in other words, a reduction of 17 performance positions. Another moment was equity. In the budget setting, the left has pointed out that the 100-million-dollar allocation. kr means about 5 pst. of annual operating costs, and that this is much less than what is regarded as sound capital and reserves in business. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important that everyone should have security during the transition. What the Church's employees experienced was great anxiety and insecurity, and that in a situation where everything else is changing, while at the same time performing their daily tasks. One might ask whether it was really necessary to create such a situation, because thanks to the Christian People's Party, there was an increase in the conciliation, and that's good, but there's still a great deal of uncertainty about this process, and I would like to stress that the committee asks the government to follow closely the development, so that the Church can safely and properly carry out the conversion, also in relation to equity. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Stortinget, when dealing with the new legal entity, decided that the Norwegian Church should be nationally and locally anchored. We're going to impart evangelical Lutheran faith and tradition, give all baptized children religious training and be organized in accordance with democratic values and principles. And we have a responsibility for the Church being able to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11212	In his post, the State Council asked for answers on how SV would get to several hours in primary school while we wanted to increase the teacher's density. He'll be very happy to know. It is not the case in Norway today that we lack teachers; we lack teachers in school. Therefore, it is a major challenge to ensure that the school becomes such an attractive job that we can both get more of those who have left the profession back, can ensure that more of the graduates remain in the profession, and can increase the status of the education and thus get more people to choose the teaching profession. SV suggests in its structure e.g. a national mentoring system, as requested by the Pedagogical Students. We want to do the opposite of what this government is doing, which is to make sure that there are now many unskilled teachers in school, at the same time that places are available for education because of the meaningless and failed character requirement of 4 in mathematics. And we want to provide a full cost coverage related to continuing education for teachers. Speaking of this, there is one thing I would like to ask the Council of State about, and that is what the budget proposal says about trying out models that give the profession influence over competence development measures for teachers. That's something we in SV think is very positive. But then it is stated in the proposal, and it has also been repeated in the Committee's comments, that the Ministry of Knowledge should do so «in cooperation with teachers' organisations» – and «the teachers' organisations» in majority. But we have been informed that the Ministry of Knowledge has not discussed this matter and has worked with several of the teachers' organisations, such as the National Association of Schools and the Lektor team. I'm just wondering if that's right, and if what's in the proposition, in that case it's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11221	It is alarming that, in a situation of high-record unemployment, the government does not use the opportunity to prioritize places of study. The initiative in the study places has been raised in the election campaign from the right side in particular, and now we see what they deliver: not a single study place for 2017. On Østfold Right websites we read the following: ‘Eastfold shall be a knowledge centre with important institutions such as, inter alia, the College of Eastfold. It is important for the further growth and future value creation of the county and has a significant impact on the municipalities in the county. [[...]] So these are the words of the Right's own written words. The University of Eastfold has given explicit notice that they want and need more places to study. They refer to the need for, inter alia: 30 health and social education places, and that this can be integrated immediately in 2017. Then we look at the numbers that the Right in Government has provided in terms of places of study at the University of Eastfold. The number of places to study at the University of Eastfold in 2014 is 0 places, the number of places to study at the University of Eastfold in 2015 is 0 places, and the government proposes to continue this in 2017 – with 0 places. So much was the insurance and election fees of the Right-Worth in terms of investing in study places in Eastfold. The Labour Party, on the other hand, will be investing: we propose 3,000 new places of study. This means that unemployed people and others outside the labour market can better secure the skills they need to get into work — and get things more important than it is right now. For example, it would. were able to provide 70 study places to Eastfold in 2017, while the government has proposals for 0 places and, as I said, 0 places in 2014 and 0 places in 2015. This simply shows that it means something who controls the country, who controls the Ministry of Knowledge. And the Right Party and the Advance Party of Government have not served Eastfold well; they do not carry out Eastfold as a center of knowledge, as the Right Party itself has promised. So instead of studying places at the University of Eastfold, Eastfoldingen got segway and poker teams – so it was possible for the Right to be a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11243	It is a good knowledge budget that will be adopted here today. One of the most important things that politicians can do is bet on those who come after us, those who are going to pay a lot of the bill for the things we prioritize today. They deserve such a good starting point they can only get, and that starting point will always be based on a good education: a school that sees everyone, that has motivated and skilled teachers, and that has good leadership. We are therefore betting on the people. A strong commitment to education and skills is necessary for everyone to participate in the future's work and value creation. We're betting on early school work, we've increased the apprenticeship grant six times by NOK 20 000, where it was still between 2005 and 2013, and we're giving more than three times as many teachers the opportunity to take on further education as before the Right Party and the Advance Party came to power. What's about as important is that we have something to live with, that we have employees who take on the boiler harness, the work gloves and the boots and go to work every day, that we have employers in the private sector who have chosen a different path from the very one, the safest one. They are the ones who have been betting what they had, and met the wall several times, yet have never given up. The cake has to get bigger in the years to come, so we have enough pieces for everyone. Everyone knows how a babysitting day with too few pieces of cakes is: first murmuring, then full war. If the cake is to get bigger, more people have to deliver to the state budget, not live off the state budget. When businesses and business leaders are asked what they want from us politicians, there are often known issues such as lower taxes, stable and predictable framework conditions and better transportation solutions. All are themes where this government and this bulk of population have increased their investment. However, what is often forgotten is that the enterprises that almost always mention are access to relevant and good competence and strengthened commitment to relevant research, development and innovation. The extraordinary, strong appropriation of 2.3 billion. kr from the 2016 budget for industrial research is proposed to be maintained. It is definitely a change of pace from the appropriations of the previous majority. Key business programmes, such as: The BIA – The User-Controlled Innovation Arena – and research-based innovation through the FORNY2020 programme have been strengthened. I also notice that, fortunately, in its alternative state budget this year, the Workers' Party, which last year cut off the FORNY2020 appropriations, has not done the same thing. It's no shame to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11254	The working party proposes a professional effort of a total of 325 million. kr, because Norway needs good tradesmen. Then more people will have to invest in the professional field, and we will have to ensure that teachers with good equipment at school are well equipped, and then students will have to have a place to learn when they are ready to do so. It is also important that one can change the direction of study in the course of the study. If an e.g. have started specialisation in studies and would like to move to a professional field, it must be possible. There are some places happening, but I think it should be a possibility for all of our students. So I'm sure that if we work to change the gender-based professional choices so that we get more girls in typical good times and more boys in typical girls' subjects, then it'll be more attractive to take a career, and our kids will have twice as many opportunities. But it has to focus on to get to change. It doesn't happen by itself. Students must first be given better advice — in the youth sphere, but perhaps also by parents and those around them. But the county must have someone responsible for equality. We need to create networks for the boys and girls who choose untraditionally. Then the students who start a professional must know that they have a place to learn. Last Friday we discussed here in the Stortinget Riksrevision's report on apprentices. He showed that every year there are several thousand elephants looking for a place to teach and not getting it. There may be several reasons for this, but there is also a lot more that can be done to prevent it from happening. Different surveys showed that ten municipalities say that they are not actively disseminating information about searchers. Two thirds of the county councils have not themselves identified the potential for new apprenticeships in their own countries. 15 out of 19 county councils say that they mainly leave the recruitment work to the training offices, while 40 pst. by the training offices, they say that they do not carry out much of any recruitment work. As you can see, there's a lot we can do there. In the Labour Party, we will put in place additional measures against the industries and the most remote regions, and will facilitate companies to benefit from flexible schemes such as apprenticeship schemes where more than one enterprise combines to provide apprentices with a holistic training. If we're going to get more good trade union workers, we have to do everything we can to get students to choose a professional and to complete them, and we have to set them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11267	I also have to get into the church budget a little in the end. As you know, the final distinction between the Norwegian Church and the State is carried out at the turn of the year. The Norwegian Church is now a legal entity of its own and has to manage financially on its own. This has been a long-standing process, with which many have been involved, and it may well have been known that I personally did not want this distinction – not because I have intended that we should politically interfere in the church's own affairs in some way, but because I have been concerned about the consequences for the wider church and its presence throughout the country. The centre party has a sincere wish that the church should exist for everyone in all hooks and crickets of the country. Time will show if fear was unfounded, and of course I hope it was. However, the church and the state are not completely finished with each other yet. With regard to the transition to framework financing and future financial bases, it is known that the Norwegian Church was in close proximity satisfied with the government’s draft budget. Even if something was corrected in the agreement, there is still a great distance between what the church believes is the need and what is now adopted. The church points, among other things, to on the need for 300 million. kr in equity, and in addition, there has been a desire to increase operating resources in order to implement the transitions resulting from reorganisation. The centre party therefore proposed 50 million. NOK extra in equity and SEK 50 million. kr in the framework grant, in Appendix 10 million. kr for religious training and other church purposes. In addition, we have proposed to increase the interest compensation for church buildings, and it will be very interesting to see how this year's unanimous decision of the Stortinge to develop a programme for conservation stone churches from the Middle Ages following a template of the stave church programme will be followed up. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this matter should have come as a matter of its own, and not been part of the treatment of a grant to a society of faith and life. This case is about cultural heritage, not about the Church as a religious community. The centre party has also proposed to grant 6 million. kr extra to the pilgrimage centers, and I would like to say to you who have pilgrimage centers in their area, that there will be no life for the pilgrimage centers if the same sum as before is to be divided into twice as many centers. It is important to be aware of this. We've also proposed 4 million. extra to the important work of the Seafarer’s Church. Finally, I would like to repeat from the pulpit that, as far as what the Central Party has written in the attitude about the ongoing processes around the state's relationship with both the Church and other religious and life-view societies is concerned, we believe it would have been more orderly if matters had been promoted and dealt with in a different order than the government has proposed. Now it's very fragmented and divided, and the basic questions literally come in second order, and it makes it difficult to ensure a whole range of policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11281	Young people who do not complete secondary education have an increased risk of health problems, lower life expectancy and major challenges of entering the labour market. If we're going to give every opportunity, it requires a school how much more successful. In addition to good teachers who see and develop the talent of each child, early efforts in other areas, such as health, nutrition and physical activity, also have a positive impact on learning. The proportion of young people struggling with mental health is increasing. The National Institute for Public Health estimates that about every five children and young people suffer from mental disorders that go beyond their daily lives. There is a broad consensus on strengthening school health services. The working party is not particularly dependent on earmarking funds for municipalities, but in order to ensure an equivalent offer for all children, we believe it is absolutely necessary to reserve the funds at a construction stage. We therefore commend the Christian People's Party and the Left, which, through the budgetary agreement, increased both the framework of the school health service offer and the proportion now earmarked. Early intervention is essential to avoid developing health challenges into serious illness. The most effective preventive public health measures are giving all children one meal per day. Although it has the greatest effect on health, it also has a very positive impact on learning. The Labour Party has therefore given priority to decommitment, allowing 50 municipalities to test out such forms of daily school meal to several children. Physical activity is the third area, and it is now being researched why active children are learning best. Sometimes I think it's pretty obvious, when they indicate that the brain is 2 pst, while the body consumes 20 pst. of the energy. Physical activity stimulates blood flow, and physical activity – it turns out – promotes especially memory, movement control, thinking and motivation. So here's a context. Previous Minister of Culture asked Jan Åge Fjørtoft to lead the Strategy Committee for Sport. His conclusion was quite clear and clear: the documentation is good enough. Now it has to be done. Statutory one hour of physical activity each day by 2020. But since it's been quiet in this area as well. The Labour Party believes that policy should be knowledge-based. Children are the future, but neither children nor schools live in bubbles. The ability to succeed in getting more through advanced education requires that we put new knowledge into practice, manage to see things in a larger context and build up the silos, and not least that we can see all children, so that everyone succeeds. Although we've been working on this for so many years, it turns out that the percentage of children who don't complete secondary education hasn't gone as far down as we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11298	When I started in the 1st class at Strigsklev School in Porsgrund in the 1990s, we didn't have computers and the Internet in the classroom. "The woman," as we then called her, didn't teach us what e-mail was for anything. There has been an incredible amount of progress since then. Schools shall deal with a rapidly changing society. That doesn't mean that the school is going to pick up all the trends, but we can say that the data and the Internet have come to stay. The working party believes that students should not only be able to use but also create digital content and services. If we're going to get there, there's going to be an offensive investment in ICT and digital skills in school. We have therefore made proposals in Stortinget that a national strategy for digitisation in school should be developed. We want such a strategy to include proposals for a national effort to develop educational software, a competence development plan for teachers, a commitment to infrastructure and, in particular, proposals for a purchasing system for digital learning material. In our alternative state budget, we are preparing the basis for this by setting aside money to enhance the competence of teachers. In the fall I was at Lunde Kinderschule in Skien in Telemark and saw how they worked with ICT and digitisation there. At Lunde Kinderschule they arranged voluntary code courses for the students, and the courses were very popular. The EU has encouraged education ministers in the Member States to promote school coding. They justify this because coding is an important skill for the 21st century, both by promoting creativity, by teaching students to cooperate, and by drawing parallels, among others. to the real subjects. Today, some students have experience in programming through courses, such as: what they have in Lunde Kinderschule, or as an electoral profession. The working party wants everyone to have experience in programming during the school day. We have therefore spent money on it in our alternative state budget. However, the basis for positioning and participation in technological and digital developments is also higher education and research. We need more people taking higher education in ICT and technology. In our budget, we have proposed 1 000 new places of study for these disciplines. Research on ICT is also important. The Research Council has asked for about 56 million. kr for research in the field of ICT. This has not been followed up in the State budget. The working party will therefore set aside 20 million. kr for ICT research. The Labour Party believes that Norway should be the best place in the world to take advantage of the opportunities offered by new technologies. That is why we are focusing on an offensive technology promise, which starts at primary school and lasts throughout our professional life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11311	As a day-to-day political responsible for higher education in Finnmark, I have some thoughts about higher education. I think it makes sense for all of us to raise our eyes beyond what we're talking about here: the budget for next year. The proposal that has been notified by the government to increase the youth right to education beyond the age of 25, I think it makes sense. Just talking to the stakeholders and making a good proposal, I think that makes sense. But you have to remember that it will cost money – if it is good, it is probably spent money. In the state I come from, we know that people often spend longer on education. They travel a little bit on the mountain and a little bit on the sea before they figure out what to do and see that it makes sense to take an education. It should be included – the basic understanding of how this has been combined. We also have a high drop-out in the county. I've been in dialogue with the Council of State on how we're going to solve this, no later than an hour ago. The council has told him to get up to Finnmark with expert help when the paperwork is over. But I've said that quality, and especially change when you're going to make quality better, will cost you a little bit of money. I would recommend to the Council of State to have money with them. I also think it makes sense to see primary school with high school. What kind of quality are there on those students we get from high school? It's one of the factors that apply when we're about to drop out, and that Finnmark is about to improve. I want to talk a little bit about student housing. In Finnmark, for example: – there are several other states that also have very large distances – we need to internalize, to use that term, the students, and we need student housing. It's not legal. When we build student housing in the Finnish county municipality, we do not get the VAT refund. It was discussed to consider building student housing in Alta for approx. 60 million. kr. VAT would be between 10 and 12 million. kr. It could have been crucial, we didn't have the economy for it. If the student relationship does that, they get the VAT back. I'm asking the Council of State to consider it especially for those states that need this. In the case of continuing training for teachers in the north, if they are going to go to Bodø, Tromsø or Alta, it may cost from 80 000 kroner to 130 000 kroner in extra costs per teacher. There are also additional costs that have to be borne in the districts. I see some boasting and clapping on my own chest here, but I don't see much of a paradigm shift, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11330	It's possible that it's because it's late on a Saturday, but I really think the whistle has gone a little out of the government parties. If you compare this debate with, among other things, The budget debate we had in the autumn of 2013, there were representatives who boasted of a new majority. They were full of protests and talked about the great ambitions for the school. School was the big flagship. It wasn't quite like that. The school has, as I said, lost the budget fight against tax cuts year after year. It almost seems like they've gone a little tired. It is possible that they are tired of us – I understand that. Perhaps they are tired of endless budgetary negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left and constantly budgeting their way into the last hour of the grand process. Or there wasn't much more in the Right School effort than what we heard about in 2013. It is only now – after three years – that the government is making new proposals. One thing is that they come up with the proposal on teacher's density because they're pressed for it, not because they're taking the initiative. It is not until the last six months that they are going to leave a big message about quality in higher education, and only now do they see the need for an ICT strategy – after they understand that it would have been adopted in Stortinget anyway – or that they are making early efforts to be implemented at the earliest in the school year 2018–2019, after everyone else has talked about it for a long time. What is the explanation that several of the cases are coming so late? I think, first of all, that the government parties have realized that this is the majority for the Storting, and they'd rather prepare for it than go on more defeat in this room. It is much better that the majority who really want this policy governs. That's possible what we see is some kind of government wear. In any case, it is certain that there is little left of new ideas and better solutions. Finally, I personally think it is funny that there are right-wing representatives on this platform and refer to what they themselves said in 2013 about the Norwegian economy and Norway being too oil dependent. Since then, they've spent over 100 billion dollars. kr more in oil money, increased oil money use more in four years than the red-green government did in eight, went to the honey pot on every single occasion, became the most oil-dependent government in history and had the most oil-smurred budget in history without any particular reference. So we almost didn't create any new jobs. Under the red-green government, 355,000 new jobs were created, two thirds in the private sector. The statistics for this government are that 30 000 new jobs have been created, two thirds in the private sector. When representatives Bjørnstad and Gudmundsen say that we need more people who deliver to the state budget and fewer who live on the state budget, it must be a disappointment to them that their own government delivers so outstandingly poor precisely on that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11341	It is approaching 2017 and I have to say that I am looking forward to 2017. Now there are many reasons to rejoice until 2017, but one of the reasons is that we are going to deal with the primary education message about vocational schools. It's a big message we've been waiting for, but now it's coming. My experience is that it is well received out there in the sector. There has been a need for a big message for a while, and to discuss the subject schools a bit wide here in the hall and in the committee. It is an important educational provision for those with a professional background, and it is an important educational provision for the business community. When you talk to the business community, some of the greatest people they can get access to are those who have taken vocational education. They also say that about those who later go on and take an academic education like this. engineer, that you can hardly get a better engineer than those who first have college and then have gone to university or college. The reason is that they just have the diversity of their education — they don't just have the theory, they've actually been out at work. When they talk about problems that need to be solved, they actually know what works and what doesn't work. It's an important offer, and that's why it's also important for the Storting to lift it up in such a debate that we're going to have, and that we're getting it lit up. What we know is that there's a little bit different prioritization of colleges around the different counties. We know that it's a little bit different status, we know that the colleges are enormously diverse. It's everything from nail academy to the more traditional maritime and technical colleges. So there's a width here that we're looking forward to discussing. To get to college, you have to start quite a lot before. For us in the left, it's about that we have to bet on the entire width, we also have to bet on practical-esthetic subjects in primary school if we want to bet on college. Because it's not like people are just good at one thing. It's not like you're either an academic or an internship. Most of us are good at something both academic and practical, and then it's a little random what kind of education you get and which way you choose in life. Then you have to have those possibilities in front of you, so that you can choose things that you are both good at and like to do. Apprenticeship grants are important for those who choose the professional path. It's important that we have enough apprenticeships, it's actually crucial if we're going to succeed in that area. Now there are several who have taken up the happy news that there has been 20 000 extra kroner per contract during this government period. But I want to add, for history's sake, that 14,000 of the 20,000 have come as a settlement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11354	There is no doubt that children and young people’s health and growth conditions are a high priority of the government — as is the budget for 2017. One of the most important measures is the strengthening of health centre and school health services. It is important to prevent mental distress among children and young people. We know that children and young people report major challenges in this area now than before. Through good comparisons with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have, here at Stortinget in the last four fiscal years, totally strengthened health and school health services by over 1 billion. kr. It is an enormous boost for prevention services for children and young people. The positive thing is that we see that the bet benefits. In 2013, the last year of red-green government, the number of health-creams decreased by 9. If we see the figures in 2014 and 2015 as a whole, there is now a strengthening of 292 health sisters out in the municipalities. It means several health sisters with an open door — which can accept children when something is difficult, when it is important to talk to an adult. But our efforts in this area also strengthen the possibilities in the municipalities to create a more interdisciplinary school health service. That is why we see several physiotherapists, several psychologists and other important occupational groups contributing to this work. We need municipalities that are offensively committed to early action. When the Health Committee visited the Municipality of Oppegård a while ago, we met a really offensive municipality management. They told how they systematically built up their school health service with psychologists, health sisters, physiotherapists and others. It is clear that it creates an exciting working environment for these disciplines. And then they were sure that it had an enormously good effect, both on the social environment among the kids and on the learning environment in the school. Building safe kids, who have learned methods to handle even difficult days, is incredibly important. It's hard to acquire knowledge in school if your head is different from where your teacher hopes to get you.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11367	It is nice to be here on a Saturday and sit in the office and listen to the debate. It was the post of the representative Pedersen, from the Labour Party in Finnmark, who got me to take the road away from here – not to let the claims she made about municipal economy stand out. She repeated a lot of what she said on Thursday, when we treated the finances of the municipalities. But it's not going to be right if you say on a Saturday that it's a skinny and bad setup for Kommune-Noreg. The special representative of Pedersen should be a little careful, because one goes in and reads the propaganda one had before the 2013 election, sees that she had been on the calculator and found out that the municipalities of Finnmark would lose 230 million. kr with a government of the Right and Advance Party – 230 mill. kr. Now we've come to see what happened these four years. There was no cut of 230 million. kr. On the other hand, there was an increase. If we look at the municipalities in all three states of North Norway, they see that under this government they have had an increase in free income, while during the period 2009–2013 one had a real decline for Finnmark and Troms. It will be very strange to say that the students in North Norway have poor conditions under this government, when the arrangement that we adopted on Thursday, in addition to what we adopted today – extra early effort – rejects it so well. She was also a member of the county councils. There was another claim that the county councils were going to get the worse after the budget agreement. That's not correct either. The Nordic counties have improved following the conciliation. The Christian People's Party and the Left have strengthened the loss compensation scheme for county municipalities, which they are completely free to use for whatever they want, including further training. Nordland County gets 12.6 million. kr extra in the agreement, Troms gets 2 million. extra kr, and Finnmark gets extra NOK 308 000 – at the top of the schemes they already have, and at the top of the economy that you have. So I thought it would be a little bit special when one of them gives the impression that there is a particular sin on the students in North Norway. Then I have to almost show you the facts about what the Nordic counties have per capita, compared to the others. In the original draft budget, the average for a county municipality is NOK 12 000 per capita, while Troms receives DKK 18 000 per capita. Nordland and Finnmark are SEK 19 700 and SEK 20 200 per capita. Then it is wrong to say that the students in the three northernmost states have poor conditions – when the facts show that a person spends money on the northern Norwegian county councils as well as on the northern Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11380	The representative Martin Henriksen has a somewhat creative mention of oil money in his post here earlier on the pulpit. It is then that the difference between the representative Henriksen's party and the government made up for oil money is 4 billion. kr. We're talking about that it would be 7,890 billion. kr on the oil fund with the Construction of the Workers' Party, while there will be 7886 billion. kr with the arrangement of the government. At the same time, he forgets to mention the other effects of the State budget of the Workers' Party, among others. a tax increase of 10 billion. kr, and that over the years you have actually engaged with about 33 billion. kr, for which there is either an increased use of oil money or a further increase in taxes to meet. What's so important is that you talk about how to use the increased space of action available over a government budget. There we come to the very core of what is important policy to discuss here in this room. The government has set up a journeylift for the time being. Getting goods and services on the market means a lot for districts and Norwegian competitiveness. You've skipped the rest section and now you've got the research promise of the times. We've never trained more teachers than we do now. We're building student homes that never before, and we've now got a big stake in early work. It means a lot to our kids and the future of Norway. We need more kids who can succeed in school, who learn basic skills early, and who thus get mastery feeling. Then I find it strange to hear that the big school effort of the Workers' Party is to continue 600 teaching positions in high school, which is otherwise quite late to take action if you're really going to lift our kids to primary school. A report from the SSB has confirmed that this is not of such importance. But at the top of everything, I think it's important to point out how these teaching positions are arranged. So out of the 600 teaching positions, there are three teaching positions for Finnmark. There's no one for Alta. There's no one for the Kirkenes. In my county, Troms, it's not a teaching position for Harstad. For Finnsnes, it's not a single teaching position either. The whole of Sogn and Fjordane get one teaching position. If you're going to boast that you really have a big stake in these 600 teaching positions, you should go a little by yourself and look at who it is that really gets to enjoy and take part in this effort from the Workers' Party. There are at least not many students. I don't have much to do with such discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11391	I continued a bit where I left off. We're talking about professionalism, and we need more good professionals. Then we'll have to work, for example. by getting good teachers. For this reason, the Labour Party has seen 20 million. kr in addition to continuing vocational training. It's positive. So I want to say, there are a lot of good teachers out there who are both capable and creative. There are unlikely many teachers who work well, for example: with the professional correction of the common subject – there may be lavishness in the workshop, cooperation with the business community, and cooperation with, for example: The highlight. I also know about a lot of good teachers who work with elephants who may be very weak when they come, and who still work with them and get them through school and get them ready to go to school. That's what I thought was very good, and I'm impressed with all of them. Nevertheless, we see that there is a great failure. With the new absenteeism limits, there are actually many of the weak students who may have already been informed that they are not allowed to take the exam. What is the motivation to continue in school? What's the motivation to get together if you don't even get to take the exam and finish the school? Then you already have even more non-responses, which can already be confirmed. I know there's been a bigger show at school following the new rules of absence, but there's a group hanging out. It seems to me to be very serious, and I really hope that the evaluation to be carried out at the time of the absence limit will take account of the situation of these students. Because, as I said, if you've already been told that you can't take the exam, what's the point of sharpening?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11400	I would first of all like to say that I thought it was nice to hear that the representative Bente Thorsen of the Progress Party used his contribution on the Church to praise what was in place in the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that the government itself did not include in its draft budget. It was the strengthening of the grant to the Church, there was funds to the Seaman Church, and it was the continuation of the interest compensation scheme for church buildings. All that's breakthrough that I'm also happy with. But what I wanted to say about was the debate on the impact of several teachers in school. The Council of State said in its statement that research is breaking up. That's right, and there's a lot of research where you've looked at, for example. the effect of reducing only the number of pupils in a class without altering the teaching at all. Then it might not have that great effect. But the whole point is that with more teachers you get flexibility in school to teach in other ways. Then you get flexibility to follow up on each student more closely, and then you get a flexibility – and time enough – to adapt the teaching to the individual student’s needs. That's what's the challenge in school today, and that's what three out of four teachers say they don't have enough time. If the Council of State and the representative Henrik Asheim have not read the KS report ‘Special Education — Drivers and Dilemma’, I would recommend that they do so. It is very clear that too little teaching resources in ordinary education provide too little space to adapt the teaching to the needs of the individual student. It creates an increased need for special education, and it steals resources from ordinary education. Then we're fast inside a vicious circle. So there's not an increase in teacher's density in itself that has an effect, that's what the school's ability to do. Then I want to give credit to SV, who has fought for an increase in teacher's density for a long time, but who did not get it into government cooperation with the Workers' Party – because the Workers' Party would not. The Right Party and the Advance Party do not really want it either, but the Christian People's Party has had a solid impact through the negotiations with the government parties. Then the representative says Giske that the Christian People's Party draws the policy in the Labour Party direction when we bet on more teachers. But the truth is that this was not a bet the Workers' Party was willing to give priority when they themselves put into government. This is a matter in which they have turned around, as far as the issue of teaching standards is concerned, and it is not good to know what the Labour Party's policy would be today – if they were still in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11411	As surely as Christmas comes every year, this debate is turning into a debate on oil money. The representatives Giske, Henriksen and Pedersen seem almost indignant, dismayed and personally offended by the use of oil money in recent years. But when you look a little away from the hollow rhetoric and look at politics, you find something quite interesting. For example, you had to do this. believe that the Workers' Party, with its rhetoric, cuts oil money use significantly in its budget – significant. That's not the case. It's like the representative Gudmundsen said that while the majority spends 225 billion. kr, uses the Working Party 221 billion. kr. So the big difference between the irresponsible and the responsible, between the leper and the healthy, is 4 billion. kr – or 0,3 per million of the State budget. That's the big difference. When Gahr Støre was asked about this at the Political Quarter earlier this week, he said that this shows a new course. That change of direction is so small that it's clinical impossible to see with the naked eye. One thing is rhetoric; another is politics. The representative Sønsterud mentioned in one of his contributions seven to eight cut governments have proposed in the field of knowledge over the last three years. Yes, that's right -- it's called priorities. Of course, she doesn't mention what government parties have prioritised, but that's the opposition's privilege. What we have prioritised is a powerful teacher's vow. Three times as many teachers today are offered continuing training as when the red-greens were in government. This majority has made clear what the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left promised for eight years, but never was able to hold, namely eleven months of study funding. Correctly, they had mention of eleven months of study funding in their last budget, but it was not followed up with a single penny. There are differences between text and appropriations. The councils were earlier involved in the Jojo budgeting. Of course, that's absolutely right. While the number of student homes went up and down with the red-green ones, the direction in the last three years has only gone one way. The apprenticeship grant is another matter. It's increased by NOK 20 000. Of course, this means something when companies are going to hire apprentices. It also understood today’s opposition in 2009. Therefore, they increased the apprenticeship allowance as part of an action package. The problem was that it was only in 2009 that they understood this connection, because in 2010 this increase was gone again. So from 2005 to 2013, there was no change in the apprentice grant. It's absolutely right that there's a difference between rhetoric and politics. I'm glad today's government parties run the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11431	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11436	Given that the government parties send the bill for eleven months of student support to the students themselves, I might be a little more moderate in self-confidence than the last speaker was. I would also like to remind the Council of State to answer the question that I asked him instead. - It's nodding, very good. Then I have a last call to the Christian People's Party and the Left. In this debate, the Council of State has made it clear that he is comfortable with the cut that the Directorate of Education has notified in terms of the learning-supporting tests in writing. This means that we have to assume that if Stortingen does not use this opportunity to intervene, this will be carried out – under major protests from what is available from professional expertise in this area. So I would strongly encourage the Christian People's Party and the Left to support this proposal. It is as far as I understand, now clear that all the red-green parties will vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11445	The representative Njåstad said something that made me wonder a lot. It's not that I need to defend the big-time representative Helga Pedersen, but I can defend and explain the Finnish marks. We don't get it in my view the legitimate credit for the extra costs we have of living so far in the district and having such great distances. We're struggling with a cut of the competence that we should have done last year, at 20 million. kr., which we have pushed in front of us. Now, in the state budget we're adopting these days, we've got 21 million. NOK i plus, of which SEK 7.2 million. kr is ear-marked traffic. Then we're going to use everything else, including competence. There's going to be a little bit left, but not much -- really it's smoldering, and it's too little to get out of the difficult situation we're in. When it is so serious for, among other things, Finnmark, which is a picture of a district council, that we have to put down several lines, and that some even now talk about putting down one or two of the eight county high schools that we have – the state has two, in Karasjok and Kautokeino – then it's very serious. It's my political everyday life. It's my headache, and there's a lot of other people's headaches out in the districts. I know what the medicine for that headache is -- there are more transfers to our young people, to our kids and to education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11452	I would like to say thank you for a good debate, which has been very civilized, it must be allowed to say. I don't know if it's because the budget was so good at first or that we're people too, it's Saturday and stuff, but at least thanks for the discussion. The representative Lighthouse asked a specific question. Of course, when we're going to try out a system where the professional gets more responsibility for parts of the further education funds, we're going to talk to all the teachers' organisations as well. But the source of this initiative was a congress, an international conference, with education ministers and representatives from the largest teacher unions in the respective countries, which were in Berlin last year or this year, I don't quite remember. It has been followed up in the cool water by it in the first round, but of course it is to be discussed with all the teacher organisations. So just a little clarification for both the representative Ingebrichtsen and the representative Pedersen. Of course, the leading experts in the school system in, for example, the United Kingdom. Finnmark, they're the ones who work at school, and they're elected to Finnmark. I am very concerned that we should have local responsibility and local control over the school system. What I've mentioned is not a special arrangement where you're going to send so-called experts from the south to exactly Finnmark, but there's a system where the state goes closer with, among other things. help and support for those schools and municipalities that have persistently low school outcomes over several years. If it works as it should, it does in partnership with the school owner. Finally, I was in Alta just a month ago or something like that. I then unfortunately did not notify the representative of Ingebrichtsen, but I promise that I will come back. Of course, it's even easier to come back multiple times if there's four new years for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11463	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11468	I almost had to take the floor because I know that the representative Asheim wanted me to answer his comments from instead. This was the case with competence requirements for teacher students. The most important thing is that we make sure that we have enough students who leave high school and have 4 in character, which is the requirement to get into the teacher's education. Today, you can work as a temporary worker in school without having any claim for anything – you may have gone to school – and we therefore have 9 000 non-qualified people working in school today. It was said that there was no one talking about one not getting into the law and medicine and engineering and the requirements that are there, but there is no political requirement to get into those subjects. It's a paradox that today it's like nurses don't have a math requirement, but it's those who are going to figure out what kind of drugs we're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11475	There is every reason to thank you for a good and constructive debate. Unfortunately, the fun seems to have gone a little way out of the government parties in school policy. This was the big flagship in the election campaign in 2013. Taxation and school have been talking about the Right for 20 years, but it is quite clear that tax cuts have been a bigger winner in the budget conferences and in the profile conferences of the government than school has been. The efforts we have seen have been largely financed by the corresponding cuts in the school sector. A co-ordinated increase has been in favour of a boost in continuing education, but the government parties have chosen to raise money from the cultural school hour, from scholarships, from fruit and green and now recently funded early efforts with free resources through cuts in the school teacher's density. The representative of the Christian People's Party took this up with the fact that there was no bet on teachers in the eight red-green years. Here, I think Tyvand combines earmarked grants for teaching positions and general community economics that provide opportunities for hiring teachers. It is quite right that the Christian People's Party has pressured the government to put more money into earmarked teaching positions, but in a lot of municipalities, there are similar or more cuts in ordinary teaching positions, and then the sum becomes minus. Ask Christian People's Party's own members in Stavanger how it feels to get a few ear-marked teaching positions while cutting 70 teacher's annuals. So just to take the numbers, in 2005 there were 53 092 teacher's years in school – now Tyvand has to hear – in 2013 there were 57 614, i.e. approx. 4,500 more years of teaching at a time when the number of students went down. It was not earmarked, but it was the local economy that gave access to bets. Since then, the number of apprenticeships in school has been completely flat – completely flat. So these earmarked positions that Tyvand with all reason is proud of – it is a good effort made by the Christian People's Party for early efforts – are eaten up because the money goes to tax cuts instead of municipal economy. Politics is linked, and yes, the Christian People's Party and the Left have drawn the budgets in the right direction when reconciliation has been made in the field of school, but unfortunately the Right and Advance Party have given free lines to prioritize tax cuts over school, care for the elderly and health, the community economy and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11484	I just have to stress that there is no whiff that has gone out of the government parties or the cooperation parties, but it may well be that you are a little tired of listening to the suture when the Workers' Party is going to settle accounts on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party in the Government. I understand that Giske & Co. do not like to be in opposition, but they cannot ignore e.g. NIFU statistics, which state that, for example: research and development appropriations are stable and much higher both as a proportion of gross domestic product and of the total government budget than they were under the red-green government. After three years in position, we have put forward a strong budget for knowledge. We have strengthened early efforts, we are strengthening efforts to combat bullying in kindergarten and school, continue a large-scale effort to further education of teachers – three times more than what the red-greens themselves did – new five-year master's education for teachers, follow up the long-term plan and strengthen the student's position with eleven months of study support. And to Audun Lighthouse, it's not like we're sending that bill to the students. We're sending that bill to adults who've been educated and who's at work. It is interesting to follow up on the Workers' Party's own efforts in the knowledge policy over the previous period and this period. When they themselves sat and had power, they left to the SV to rule. There was rest cutting in research, and the promise of eleven months of study support was never introduced. Yes, it is true that the Workers' Party is focusing on the further training of teachers, but it is therefore the Right that has tripled that effort. While it was long obvious that something had to e.g. is done with our educational institutions to enhance quality, passively put the Workers' Party and watched. The government is now implementing reforms in the UH sector rather than suspense, as the Labour Party does. It also concerns the funding system and its modification in the higher education sector. It's been a broad consensus, it's been a long process. The working party is for, but they're suspising in the process. This also applies to absenteeism, to skills requirements, and to master training of teachers, for which they are, but they criticise the process and end up supporting the government. Then I would just like to say that the free income of the local government sector for 2017 is about. 4 B.C.E. kr – approx. 3.6 B.C.E. NOK to the municipalities and SEK 450 million. kr to counties. The municipalities are growing more strongly than under the previous government. The average real growth in municipalities from 2009 to 2013 was 1.4 pst. – on average, we have had 1.9 pst. So it's bigger, and the municipalities are now better off than they were under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11495	The representative Anders Tyvand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11500	The representative Geske points to a perfectly correct dynamics. Although we grant earmarked funds, we have no absolute guarantee that there will be more teachers employed in the municipalities. That is why it is important to put in place a national standard of teacher's density, and I hope that the Workers' Party will be involved in and support when the Christian People's Party's representative proposal is being discussed over the New Year. But then it's probably not quite right that it's completely flat in terms of the number of teacher's years in school. The last GSI figures show, on the contrary, that there are 986 more teacher years in the first step in 2016–2017 than in 2014–2015. And now we've granted even more in earmarked funds for more teaching positions in 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th grade, so we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11514	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11519	I would first like to say to the representative Kristin Vinje that it is absolutely right that the Workers' Party does not like to be in opposition. That's why we're going to make that role very temporary. We don't sue over the process, but it has to be allowed to point it out when you, for example. issues a regulation with a proposal for 4 character requirements in maths and makes it so poor that you can get in with 2 only you have completed an advance course – an example of a work error. And it's the same thing that repeats whether it's text messages for the treatment of private school applications in Oslo, or it's the rules of absence or other things -- it's the opposition's role to point out bad craftsmanship. To Tyvand I can say that yes, we are for a norm for the youngest students. There, research shows that it has the greatest effect. And once again, at the Workers' Party you can find support for an early effort as monks. There have certainly been several teaching years in the first stages, but we also know that this room is today going to decide to cut 600 positions in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11526	The representative Trond Giske made me speak in this debate, which is coming to an end. This is the result of the whole day, for the representative Giske appears to be a political magician – and to the extent that the Workers' Party as a whole. Now it is the government parties that have concluded agreements with the Workers' Party on defence increases for 2017, and they have also formed a majority to establish a financial tax with a device that disagrees with the Left. It is clear that it is easy to negotiate when sending the bill to other lots, which is to conclude the majority settlement when both revenue and expenditure are to be covered. The left agreed in the red-green period with the Christian People's Party that there would be 15 000 more places in the care sector. The golden municipal economy in that period was to indicate that it was easy to achieve that goal. We know the result, it was about. 2 000 more, so that the local economy in the red-green period could hardly be so brilliant. Then more people have been in the discussion about 600 more teachers in high school. The evaluation shows that there was very little effect, and we are now moving 600 positions for early school participation. There's a lot of agreement that will give effect. In the same way, the Left and Christian People's Party does so in all negotiations with the government – it's about kindergarten, it's about community psychologists, it's about health stations, midwives and health sisters – we're putting the effort in place as early as possible. We know that a good childhood lasts life. Unfortunately, a bad childhood lasts out too. We can also turn a round on research and development. It was in the red-green period a rest slice. Governments and majority parties have significantly increased research efforts. It will serve Norway in the future. So I'm not very impressed with the magic that the Workers' Party is doing here today. They have relatively little to point to for the future. It's enough to remember about unconstructed biofuels and bankruptcies that unfortunately resulted from that period. Now we can read in several media around Norway that one has ready-to-use projects in the field of biofuels. So there are possibilities for future ones. The early effort, and putting the money there, is incredibly important. And the local economy today is nothing worse than it was eight years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11539	I need to make some comments to the representative Kristin Vinje after her assessment of various good actions by the government and her attack on the Workers' Party. Then I'll say a little bit about research. Norway has seen a sharp increase in research appropriations over the last ten years. Research and development appropriations increased by 64 pst. from 2005 to 2012. They were at 15.5 billion. kr and ended at 25.5 bn. kr, which corresponds to a real growth of 27 pst. Under this government, growth has continued. There is a broad consensus on research – fortunately. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party has a different profile of research policy together with the Centre Party and SV. We think it's too fast to bet too much on pointed disciplines. In addition, it has been evaluated in other countries and proved not to be an unconditional success always. We must not forget the need to provide good framework conditions for the wide range of research environments, such as: provide good training to teachers, nurses and engineers throughout the country. We need to strengthen the welfare state's professions and the research into professionals. There's more to it than the government adds up to. In particular, this is important when we are now going to have a five-year teacher training. In addition, the UK and government have agreed that business-oriented research, global challenges and research-based welfare and health services are important. Nevertheless, these leaders are not reflected in the government’s draft government budget. So when it's bred by the growth of research, these are appropriations that don't directly affect the volume of research, and then I refer to the same NIFU report that the Kristin Vinje talked about. Rather, it is due to investment in a new research vessel — which costs a lot of money and which everyone supports, but then there is a lot of money there — and a research tax on agriculture, which has been included in the budgets. In addition, gross domestic product is lower than previously. So it looks nicer. Again, there are many departments that do not take seriously that they are responsible for allocating money to research in their own field. One Council of States sits in this room. It's the Minister of Transport. He's not particularly capable of giving money to research, even though we spend a lot of money there. The same applies to police and preparedness. It doesn't follow money for research. We should be sure in areas where we grant a lot of money, that we actually spend the money right. I would like to make a short comment in the end on something related to the continuing training of teachers. There's a change there. The Labour Party would say clearly to the Minister of Knowledge that we believe that all the trade unions and all the teacher organisations should be involved in that arrangement, not just one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11554	We've been holding on for a while, and I'm going to try not to help prolong the debate. But there were some claims from the Workers' Party representatives that I feel need to respond to, and to some extent also some other things. To take the last thing that was said, first, research. Our criticism of the red-green government's research effort is that it was very unstable. One thing is that it increased from 2005 to 2013. It was supposed to be missing. But it's a fact that it grew up and down, while we've now created a long-term research plan that gives the research institutions and the higher education sector predictability. This is not something that only we from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left mean. This is something that the Swedish Research Association itself has developed as very positive. So to this with the 600 teachers. What you're really doing now is you're following the schedule that the Red-Green government posted. This was a temporary pilot project to see whether to maintain or introduce a learning density standard. Our criticism has not been that it cannot be good to have enough teachers and enough time in school. Our criticism has been that we thought it would have no learning effect to increase the teacher's density, while at the same time it was a requirement that it should happen in ordinary education. We have a lot of research that underpins that. Now we have a research report that underpins it, namely the SSB's own evaluation of the red-green project with 600 teachers in high school. Then the representative asked Tyvand if I had read the KS report. I've read some of it. I'm not going to brag that I've read the whole thing. Perhaps the representative Tyvand has done so. But the interesting thing is to put it next to the pilot project. For the truth, when you say that the teacher's density is only to be used in ordinary education, so that the classes go from 20 to 17 students per teacher, it doesn't have any effect. So you've spent $1.5 billion on a measure that doesn't increase learning for the students. But if you increase the teacher's density at the beginning of the school year and allow schools to use the teaching resources as they see it is best for students, for example. it may have an effect by providing special education to those students who need it early. Norway has one of the highest teachers in Europe. It's 40-50 pst. higher than the OECD average. The only question is whether spending money on multiple teachers is automatic learning promotion. The SSB checked it for the red-green government, and the answer was no. The opposition parties seem to be demanding a lot of things we should have done as they didn't do, but as we do. They say, "Why didn't the ICT strategy come before?" The red-green government cancelled to put forward an ICT strategy. I'm sorry we didn't get into government before we did, but when we did, we also started doing these things. The same applies to the long-term research plan. The same applies to continuing education, all of which are clearly agreed on, but which we have had to do by treble the effort. And the same thing is about early effort, where the opposition has talked a lot, but spent the money on the teachers at high school. We're the ones who put resources into early school effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11569	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11574	I thought people in this room were going to deal with what the matter was actually about. When the representative, Mr. Kjeseth, goes up to this pulpit and starts to debate and talk about completely different things, things that have nothing to do with this budget, you can wonder and wonder if this was really just a small one – what to call it – revenge on the first matter we had on today's agenda. To the representative Vinje, who was concerned that we are suing and talking about the government's accounts: those who have joined the debates since this government took over, and listening to everything that has been said about the red-greens at all times, you can ask who is spending time on what. To put it this way: I guess there was no sunbeam standing on the platform during that post either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11581	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11586	When I hear the right-wing representatives in this room, inter alia: When the representative Kristin Vinje accuses us of suing, I think they should hear the recordings of themselves when they were in opposition in the last few years. It is wrong that the red-green government did not bet on early effort. We increased the income of municipalities by 60 billion. kr, such as more teachers, both in high school and in primary school, were required by law to take early action, with six more lessons in mathematics, Norwegian and English being introduced in 1–4. Steps and requirements for immersion in all teaching subjects for new teachers, doubled the state support for further training for teachers, and a wide range of other things. The only thing that has happened is that the Right has brought the opposition rhetoric into the government. Finally, I shall say something I had never thought I would say: I miss Per Sandberg. The majority of the budget of the Minister for Fisheries is for research and education. Former fisheries ministers have always been present during the debate on the bulk of their own budget. I do not know what the Minister for Fisheries is doing, but I did not think I should ever say this: I miss that the Minister for Fisheries is actually here in the Chamber and is debating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11595	The President then thanked the President for concluding this debate on the subject. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Laughter]] At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4-6 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11631	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 7-9 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11665	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11674	First of all, thank you to the Committee for the smooth and good treatment of the 2016 budget changes. We are well on Saturday afternoon, and I am not going to contribute to any long debate on this, but will just give some comments on the most significant budgetary changes and the orientation given on the process regarding both Haugesund Airport and the Arna-Bergen railway project. The Ministry of Transport reports a small consumption of Item 30 – i.e. investments in the line, which is then railway investment – of 744 million. kr. The deviation consists of many smaller items and is due to several factors, including: reduced progress on some projects, supply problems of some suppliers, shifted payment schedules, dispute in settlement and adaptations to more rational progress of some projects. In addition, some projects have come out at a lower cost than foreseen, which is good. These are normal deviations and adaptations which may arise from the implementation of this type of project. Of that amount, 592 million. redispatched for operation and maintenance, which further contributes to the reduction of the railway maintenance set-aside. That is what we believe to be a sensible redisposal. Haugesund Airport, Karmøy is today owned and operated by Avinor. The local company Airport Development AS has had a central role for several years and, in cooperation with airports, has operated the marketing of the Haugaland area and the work of several international routes from airports. In 2017, the government will start work on a service concession model at Haugesund Airport, whereby Avinor will continue to own the airports, while the entire operation will be outsourced to other operators following a competitive bidding process. We consider that a good solution, in which we have great faith, will contribute to the continued positive development of Haugesund Airport. Already in the 2016 state budget, it was briefed on the risks and extent of the Arna-Floeen railway project, which has been underestimated. A new external quality assurance system has been followed up to confirm this and provides a new overall cost framework for the project and for the Bergen station-Fløen project for a total of 6.9 billion. kr. We are pleased that the Council of State has a good process and follow-up of this project and will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way, and that solutions are sought that are both cost-effective and offer the least possible disadvantage for the travellers. I therefore see no reason to vote in favour of the proposal by, among others. The working party in this case, since this is already an ongoing process. Prop. 31 S for 2016-2017 also deals with some other budgetary changes in the Ministry of Transport. Among other things, there is a small consumption of some items, increased appropriations related to damage caused by storms, landslides and rockslides, increased sales and fee revenue related to the renewal of driving licences and backlog for the purchase of postal services for 2015, which actually brings reduced costs of 160 million. kr. I'm not going to go into any of these changes. They're well described in the proposition. When we have a minor consumption in some items, I will give full support to the re-postings that have been made, and that, among other things. contributes to a further reduction of the maintenance set-off in the railway sector. It's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11689	The treatment of the ejaculation in the respective departments should normally be a simple matter and a quite out of date affair. However, in areas of the Ministry of Transport, dramatic events often require changes in budgets. Typically, the destruction of our common infrastructure, as a result of race, storm or other events, will require additional appropriations. There is also an example of this. I am thinking about the profoundly tragic helicopter accident on Turøy earlier this year. This has made it both right and necessary to increase the appropriations allocated to the State Disaster Commission for Transport. When I take the floor on behalf of the Workers' Party, it is to point to two aspects that we have mentioned in the setting. The first relationship relates to the volume of minor consumption at the railway station's investment post of a total of 744 million. kr. As is apparent from the comments of the representatives of the Workers' Party in the Committee, this has several unfortunate aspects, although the money has been used mainly for another good purpose: maintenance and renewal of the railway. The second relationship to be mentioned is the Workers' Party and the Centre's comment on over-costs for the Bergen-Fløen and Flöen-Arna railway projects. This is one thing with multiple dimensions. This is a dramatic increase in the cost of the project. Attention is drawn to the consideration of cost-reduction measures that can have a significant impact on travellers. Finally, the note deals with the particularity of the fact that in two subsequent budget proposals, the Storting has only been informed of an increase in costs. The size has not been given any indication of the size of the cost increase, although this is information the Council of State has known about about a year and a half. I bring this up with the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11700	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11705	The rapporteur has carried out a good review of the Committee's views on the amendments to the appropriations proposed in Prop. 31 S for 2016-2017. So I just want to focus on some of the proposed changes. The Christian People's Party is pleased that one has become a model for the further operation and development of Haugesund Airport. During my time in the Transport Committee, I must say that I have met a lot of concerned local politicians from Haugesund and Karmøy who have expressed great concern about the future of the airport in relation to the model to be chosen. The airport has been owned and operated by Avinor, but a local company has been responsible for marketing, with a special focus on foreign routes. The model now proposed continues to give Avinor the full ownership of the aerodrome, but the operation is put on the market. A fixed rental fee is paid to Avinor, and then it is up to the concessionaire who receives the tender to determine the fees and take full and complete responsibility for the operation and maintenance. The Christian People's Party records so far that there is a great deal of satisfaction with such a model. It continues to place the ownership of Avinor, as we do at most airports in Norway, while providing private operators with the opportunity to create an economic operation that can develop the region as a travel destination and create freedom and actually new opportunities to appear as a somewhat different airport adapted to regional needs. It will be exciting to follow up on how the model works in practice. Due to some large investment projects that have had less progress than planned in the railway sector, 592 million are proposed. kr from investment for operation and maintenance on the railway. In order to make the train an even more attractive offer for more travellers and owners of goods, it has been important, in our view, to prioritize maintenance. A aftermath that has been allowed to build up over many years, we are now in the process of reducing. Over three consecutive years, the bulk of the population, the Christian People's Party and the Left, together with the government parties, have started to work to reduce a lag, which will clearly make the train attractive to new customers. Punctuality and fewer unplanned train stops increase people's confidence in the train as a means of transport. Together with several departures and purchases of new train sets, we now experience that more and more people choose the train as their preferred means of transport. To achieve our climate objectives, the competitiveness and attractiveness of the train must be strengthened. That is why the Christian People's Party is very pleased that we now have a reverse operation in this period of strengthening the role of the train in the collective offer. Together with increased appropriations, the new steps represented by the railway reform, with a new allocation of responsibilities and authority tasks, will help to make the train more attractive in the future. Then we notice that there has been a new external quality assurance of the Arna-Fløen and Bergen station-Fløen subproject. This is an important part of the connection between Arna and Bergen, and we're looking forward to it coming into place. In this respect, it is important, in our view, and also in the Committee's view, that this should be organised and implemented in the most cost-effective way possible, but also that it should not be necessary to close Bergen Station for months, as some newspaper headlines have suggested. It will be important to find solutions to minimise the impact on passengers. I refer you to the rapporteur's review.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11722	The central party supports the proposal of the Labour Party referred to in the Innst. 129 S for 2016-2017, to ask the government to come back quickly with a thorough and holistic review of the Bergen-Arna railway project and, in addition, to ensure that the Bergen-Arna railway project is implemented in such a way that the closure of the Bergen station is limited to a minimum. To the first proposal, we have been concerned about what has emerged, primarily in the media, that there has been a very large increase in the cost of the project, but we have not felt that we have received that information from the government. Yes, it has been referred to as an increase in costs, but that magnitude has not been known, even though the order of magnitude was known to the government. That is why we are in favour of this proposal. To the second proposal, which concerns the possible closure of the Bergen station, there are several parties who have responded to the proposal to close the entire Bergen station for eight months. I understand that when we're going to do a big upgrade, there will necessarily have to be some shutdowns of a station. It's okay. But when the Council of State in written reply to me indicates that this has been necessary and good, for example. in the implementation of the Oslo project, there is a difference of two weeks – one week in July and one week in the beginning of August – and eight months in the closure of a station in Norway’s second largest city. When one of them hooked up with Oslo S for one week, the railway works went out on their websites and encouraged the travellers to avoid travelling on the routes during this time, or to avoid travelling on the rush traffic. But it's good to close Bergen Station for eight months. I thought it was a rather pointless proposal, so I hope – and the Council of State has also said in written reply – that this was not concluded, but that one could come up with other proposals that limit the closure of Bergen station to a minimum. The centre party is concerned that we need to know about the Bergen-Arna project, so that we can do the right priorities here. We are also concerned that if the project is exposed for different reasons, it will also have consequences for the large, important project on Vosabanen, i.e. double tracks between Bergen and Voss, finally. That's why we're on this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11733	Through the new aging process, we are going through and small-scalely correcting the budget that was adopted for the current year. There are relatively small corrections that happen — some because you have unforeseen expenses, some because you have unforeseen incomes, but all in all no drama. The appropriations for, inter alia: Racial and flood clearance is increasing little – as a result of things that have happened, which have been dramatic where it happened, for those who experienced it, and where we are concerned about getting the infrastructure back into operation as soon as possible. Appropriations of 50 million. extra kr is necessary for this. Changes are made by taking the money that has not been spent on the investment side in 2016 and spending it on the maintenance of the railway. This means that both on the road and on the railway we have cut back in 2016 as well. After many years, yes many decades, where the decay has increased and increased, and although everyone in this room has rhetorically agreed that this should not be the case, one has nevertheless not been able to do anything about it, until one now got a bourgeois majority who has prioritised money and does something about it. That means that one with the extra allocation that's now on the railway, cuts another half billion in excess. That's good. That means that the railway is getting even better for those who use it daily, for commuter trips and for longer trips. This means increased predictability, increased attractiveness and improved customer base. That is also the reason why one can cut the post afterwards, in the case of appropriations to the NSB for the purchase of train journeys – simply because the passenger growth has been greater than one expected, a record growth in already high passenger numbers. There is good reason to believe that that growth will also continue, because today we mark the opening of Holmestrand station. 14 km with new double tracks through Vestfold reduce travel time from Tønsberg to Oslo by 6-7 minutes. This means that there are now express trains from Tønsberg to Oslo, which means that you will get a better offer again and more people will be able to travel with it. I just have to remind the travelers to check that it is the express train they are going on, so that we do not get more examples like those that have been mentioned, among other things. in the newspapers of the past, about people who are just going to Sandvika but who have to go to Tønsberg because it is not a descent before Tønsberg. Then it's important that we have good control of the projects that are in progress. The mountain project on the railway is an example where we have had to go through the project thoroughly to look at what is happening, and how the cost growth has been, in order to be able to inform the Storting properly. I record that some people are trying to give the impression that Stortinget has not received any information. I have in many responses to the Storting, both orally in the Questionnaire and in response to written questions, informed about the course of events. The size was informed in the last year's budget that there were problems, but then we didn't know the sum. It was estimates from professionals, but we started a quality assurance so we got an answer that we could stand for before we announced it to Stortinget – but we informed Stortinget that it was troublesome. Now, in the new age, we've got the numbers. So as soon as the government gets knowledge, we'll pass it on. We shouldn't dictate the knowledge ourselves just to have given a number, I hope the Workers' Party will take over. We need to inform Storting at the right time, but we also need to provide correct information, and that has happened in this case. We can look back soon in 2016 – a year when we invest record money in road and rail, and where we maintain what we have. So we're both doing the same thing. In addition, we can look back on a year which fortunately has relatively low traffic accidents. Although there is an increase in road traffic deaths compared to 2015, 2016 is the second best year since 1947. We can enjoy that, even if we're also going to show concern for all the families that get affected when things don't go as they should. Not least we have the Turøy accident in memory. Experience an accident of that dimension, in an area that we normally experience as safe, is also thoughtful – even though safety has been well maintained for many years and things are done, things happen sometimes beyond our control. Then, as a society, we're going to take care of those who are being hit, and we're going to understand why things have happened. That's why the additional appropriations in the budget are our handshake to better understand accidents that happen, and how we're going to avoid them in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11744	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11763	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Marianne Aasen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Directorate-General for Education’s work on further developing and making available learning-support tests, in which, among the written tests currently announced, are continued, and to maintain the agreement concluded with the National Centre for Writing Training and Writing Research related thereto.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11794	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to promote a case on the criteria for the inclusion of new accredited private higher education facilities in the funding system for higher education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e11811	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that camp schools or similar schemes are ensured through the curriculum so that all pupils are offered, in line with the national objective.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to identify the real equipment needs at schools in order to meet all the curriculum objectives and the relevance of vocational training with a view to introducing a top-level funding for specific resource-intensive training programmes.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to postpone a new funding system, to explain in greater detail the conversion of the new funding system and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. The Government should explain in particular the points in which the proposal violates professional recommendations.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e15310	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e15759	It is now added over II to V and VIII and IX. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e15773	So we're going to add it to the x over the x over the y over the y The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e15787	And then it goes over VII and X. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e15814	The Labour Party and the Center Party have notified support for the adjustment. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e15848	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e15867	The right hand side and the Progression Party have notified support for the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e17676	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back quickly with a thorough and comprehensive review of the Bergen-Arna railway project, including new cost estimates for the project.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Bergen-Arna railway project is carried out in such a way that the closure of the Bergen station is kept to a minimum so that the disadvantages of the passengers are minimised’. The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-17.ana.ud83e18654	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
