ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e62	The representative Morten Wold, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e72	I have the honour to make a proposal – I had almost said on behalf of all the passengers on the 31 bus and myself – about 50 pst. State contribution to the tramline north of Sinsenkruiset over Tonsenhagen to Linderud.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e77	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters 1 to 4 be dealt with together. – It is deemed to have been adopted
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e135	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e148	I also use the 31 bus, so it's going to be interesting to follow a case that comes later. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control. With short deadlines, we have delivered a solid piece of work to have an adjustment for Stortinget. Budgetary work this year has focused primarily on a discussion on climate action and on climate action that has an impact, which may be especially true for Norway, but clearly right to do, one year after the adoption of the Paris Agreement. According to the Paris Agreement, leading an international approach is to implement measures at home and be at the forefront of meeting the commitments given internationally. This is a good climate and environmental budget. It is a good budget for what was adopted yesterday for public transport towards the big cities, but also for the railways between the big cities. It is a good budget in the case of fuel, with blending of biofuels up to 20 pst. towards 2020, with significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. It is a good budget to continue the benefits of a zero-emission vehicle, so that we keep the pressure on the decision taken by the Committee in connection with the energy notification, that only a zero-emission vehicle from 2025 should be sold. We have a significant increase of 300 million. NOK, to Enova, so we can build an infrastructure for the zero-emission vehicles. There has been a lot of discussion during the autumn about the level of fossil fuel charging. After all, the increase in petrol and diesel is now the largest in Norway in more than ten years. Although the green tax shift – which should also be a shift of relief – could be greater on the left side, this is a budget that goes in the right direction. But perhaps the most important thing about climate work is that we build on putting in place a systematic approach to climate work in Norway. We took a big step in the spring, with the climate communication, where we set clear objectives for what is to be achieved in the national transport plan, and targets towards 2030. In this budget, some of the verbal decisions are perhaps as important as the figures, namely that we have to put in place a CO2 fund to convert heavy transport, that we have to have a gradual introduction of a flat CO2 tax, and that we have to have a climate law, which has a strength and content that is more in line with – what is depicted – a British climate law. I have to say on behalf of the Left that it is special that we now have such a broad consensus on a climate law. When a climate law was first proposed by the Left in Stortinget, there were only two votes. Now this is an important part of the foundation we're going to lay to achieve the 2030 targets. The last – and perhaps most important – issue of this year is that we want to join the EU in order to achieve the 2030 targets, which on the left is considered absolutely necessary to have a commitment to and a certainty that we will achieve the targets. But this isn't just about climate. There is also, to a large extent, a budget that strengthens classical nature protection and cultural heritage protection in Norway. At the time of the presentation of the budget agreement, there must have been a good day in the Environment Directorate, which has not only recovered its 30 million. kr, so that they have not cut, but have a budget which follows up the decisions taken by the Stortinget in connection with the communication of nature, which was examined by the Committee and adopted in spring. It is a matter of continuing to invest in knowledge raising, but we are now working on both an environmental quality standard for wild rain, an action plan for endangered seabirds, a strengthening of the conservation of endangered species and natural habitats and the follow-up to the water regulations, with money for salmon traps in the Wefsna – 10 million. kr. There are measures in protected areas, increased protection of forests, duplication of measures against marine pollution and not least the restoration of bogs. In a later article, I will take the part of cultural memory protection, where there is also a significant increase in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e171	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e176	After two months of intense negotiations and several billion extras on the table, the Left and Christian People's Party achieved emission reductions of 13 000 tonnes extra in 2017. It can hardly be called a green shift or a change of pace in climate policy. In the Workers' Party, we launched our alternative budget in the harvest, with a climate package that celebrates how the Workers' Party will achieve the 2030 targets; 40 pst. discharge. So that's 10.5 million tons by 2030. The cooperation parties have a cut of 5.3 million tonnes by 2030. Does the Left believe that the government parties – and the Progress Party in government – are the best to achieve and achieve the 2030 goals, or is the Workers' Party package too tight?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e183	I believe that the measures we are now implementing on the civil side offer significant cuts to next year. The figures we have from the Ministry of Finance, which is from the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, provide a cut of over 600 000 tonnes. What's going to be the final number will show. Otherwise, there is no doubt that during this period there is a significant change in the pace of climate policy in Norway. I also think that the system approach we are building, given both the link with the EU, what is going on with CO 2 funds, what is going on with a flat CO 2 tax, having a strengthening of a climate law, is the right decision where we are pointing forward towards 2030. I am quite sure that the budget presented by the Left as its primary position has also helped to influence the budget of the Labour Party. But the most important reason that this is something that's civil is that we're in favour of a tax shift, that we're going to increase on what we're against, but we're also going to decrease. The alternative of the working party is mainly tax increases and tax increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e198	Some might argue that when it comes to the budget negotiations for the autumn, there was very little life. But at the same time, there are some things that appear as proposals that a broad majority of the Stortinges eventually agree with. The Centre Party proposed in its alternative budget a CO 2 business transport fund. We also see this as reflected in the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Left and Christian People's Party. It is a measure that, according to TØI, can cut up to 600 000 tonnes of CO 2 before 2020 and several more after 2020, if one gets started quickly. But then the question is, how fast does a person intend to get started? For the budget agreement is rather vague at that point. It is said that a revised national budget will report on a process and a possible timeframe. We can't wait every six months for someone to get a new investigation or a new one. If this fund is to work, it must be set in motion quickly. Then my question is, how quickly does the representative of Elvesuen mean... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e213	Yeah, isn't it like with all the big decisions, that it's without undue delay? Then we have to come back with an opinion on how to do this. So I expect it to come into place from next year, because this is also linked to an increase in the CO 2 tax, which is just going to go to a CO 2 fund. But I think that's right, because it's also going to be a close collaboration with the industry, that you have a process of setting up, so you get this properly organized.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e226	I would like to congratulate the Left and the Ola Elvestuen on two things about this year's budget. One is to raise the climate and environmental perspective high in the fight they have waged against the government on the budget, and the other is a number of very concrete environmental measures for which both the representative and I have an commitment, such as. Action plan for seabirds and a number of other very specific items in the budget. But the big picture is sadly gruesome. I wonder if the representative is not wondering when he only brings out the positive impact of the measures on CO 2 emissions, but forgets all the negative decisions for CO 2 emissions in the budget. When the representative says that this is a good climate and environmental budget, my question is very simple: if you want to reach the climate agreement, next year's budget will have to cut almost two million tonnes of CO2. Kutter next year's budget nearly two million tonnes of CO 2 compared to this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e245	First, I want to thank you for the rose. I think maybe I should have got praise for more than just two things. I really believe that this is a good budget. This alone does not cut emissions by 2 million tonnes to next year. The main reason for not doing so is that, where the increase in Norway is the largest, the oil and gas sector — often because of decisions taken many years ago, when SV was in government — and that is also because there is no decline in industry. What this budget can do is reverse the trend we've had in the transport sector, that we're able to start driving those emissions down. For what the representative also knows is that we need to achieve our climate goals by 2030, but also show that we are on the right track by 2020, it is within transport that we need to make the major changes. As far as measures are concerned, I believe that we are at the forefront in many areas, including internationally – this is the case with electric car investment and now also with biofuels, but also with CO 2 funds and other proposals we have in shipping and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e259	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e265	Norway is a country of opportunity. But despite that, we are now living at a time when unemployment is record high, where job growth is almost gone, and where greenhouse gas emissions are still increasing. The record high unemployment rate and the weak growth in employment, as a symbol of a total misguided policy, were not the ones that received the most attention in the fall. The climate, on the other hand, was overwhelming. It began forcefully in the debate on the throne, in which the parliamentary leader of the Left made an unreserved declaration of love for the climate policy of the Progress Party. It is a quotation that fits that situation perfectly: ‘People are so simple and so burdened by the daily burdens that a fraud always finds someone who is fooled.’ When the Right-Fremskrit party government joined, they did not give priority to the climate – it was not of the eight main issues. After four budgets from this government, we can establish that the observation that was then made is at hand. They don't give priority to climate. In 2030, Norway shall have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst. It's only 13 more years. Emissions do not go down. It is not just past decisions that give rise to it. The road sector also has an increase in 2015 with greenhouse gas emissions. There is therefore an urgent need for concrete and effective measures that actually work, and in our alternative state budget we presented our climate package – a climate package that was well received, not least from the environmental movement. There we show the sectors where the emissions are going to be done, we specify the measures, we figure out the emission cuts, and we do budget priorities that are in line with that. There are in particular four areas in which we focus: zero-emission technologies in road transport, biofuels, climate-friendly shipping and carbon capture and storage. In our climate package, we propose that 8.3 million tonnes be cut in emissions in the transport sector and 2.4 million tonnes outside the transport sector. So we are focusing on a radical shift in the transport sector. The size has decided that the new car sales in 2025 will be based on zero-emission cars. We are therefore doing much more than the government and budget agreement to make infrastructure for zero-emission technologies available throughout the country. The very prerequisite for success with the zero-emission vehicle from 2025 is that we have an infrastructure in place that covers the whole country, but despite that there will be a lot of fossil cars on the roads. There is a need to invest significantly more in biofuels, and therefore the Workers' Party will have a commitment to a requirement of 40 pst. biofuels by 2030. We know that biofuels are only a good climate action if they are based on sustainable biofuels, and the availability of enough sustainable biofuels in the market is a challenge. At the same time, however, we believe that a clear requirement in 2030 is a great opportunity for, among other things. Norwegian forest industry. We will therefore facilitate the increased production of sustainable biofuels in Norway. It will mean new jobs and it will mean reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The most important thing to get the capital and knowledge environments to invest in biofuels is not the 2020 target, but the 2025 and 2030 target. In addition, we must invest significantly more and be clearer than that of the government and to the extent that the aid lots are in carbon capture and storage. We spend more money than the government, 150 million. kr more, to clarify the critical point concerning storage and storage capacity related to Norwegian base. We also want an investigation now where we can clarify and look at the possibilities that the North Sea and Norwegian Socket can be a future European stockpiles of CO 2. We think it has a lot to do. With regard to the major issues affecting our time, we need to be more concrete and more solution-oriented than the majority is. The Labour Party has shown how we will achieve our emissions obligations, and we have a long-term plan for emissions cuts of well over 10 million tonnes in 2030. The Government Parties and the Support Parties have not undertaken in a similar manner. We have clearly and concretely set up our alternative budget to achieve the targets, and the emission cuts are implemented. After four budgets from the government, we can state that the government has not delivered on climate. For most of us, it's not surprising when we know that the Progress Party is in charge. Carl I. Hagen, the junior and senior candidate of the Progress Party, warmed yesterday up to today's climate debate. He claimed that man-made climate change was a nonsense, and at the same time he claimed that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a pure fraud. To believe that a government with the Progress Party will assume a climate responsibility is to fool itself. If Norway is to succeed in the transformation of the possibilities and the emission cuts are to be achieved, it is recognised that today’s government needs to be replaced – by a government that has the will, the ability and the ability to manage the major tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e292	When the Workers' Party ruled the country, the number of diesel cars on the roads was recorded. Now there's going to be a record in the number of electric cars. I assume that the representative of Aasland has read the report of the Green Tax Commission, and I think it is very good that the Workers' Party is now really taking a hold on the transport sector, because it is crucial for reducing emissions in the future. The Green Tax Commission is very clear that increased climate and environmental taxes should be compensated for by sector and also give back some relief at the other end. In its alternative budget, the Workers' Party increases fuel taxes more than the government and cooperative parties do, but they do not at all compensate. The working party also has ambitions to co-manage with the Centre Party, which does not want any increase in fees at all. How does this relate? Does the Workers' Party believe that it is right to increase taxes and not compensate anything? Does the Labour Party realize that not everyone lives in a big city and actually needs a car?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e301	I'll try to answer many of the questions that came up in the line. First about the Center Party and the Workers' Party: I encourage Tina Bru to read the settings from the Energy and Environment Committee very well. There she will see that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party agree very much on the major lines of Norwegian energy and environmental policy. We agree very much in most areas, and it's almost like we could sit down and write the setting together – together. So that cooperation doesn't need Tina Bru to fear at all. Of course, when it comes to different conditions around the country, we are aware of that. That is why we are now moving more towards the early phase, before we have to achieve zero emissions from new vehicles in 2015, among other things. in the case of a stronger deployment of a zero-emission vehicle infrastructure than is done by the Right and the Progress Party and beyond that provided for in the budget agreement. We clearly see that conditions in the country are different. In the case of the Green Tax Commission, the Green Tax Commission does not have the fasitivities on all the issues. I believe it was wrong to put the ultimatum when the car package was presented. I believe that this is the wrong policy in a climate perspective, such as the government and the support parties put up with car policy in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e312	The Labour Party seems to believe that there are only increased taxes and taxes that work to change behaviour in the private and business world. The budgetary consistency between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left modified device and increases the wreckage system, giving vehicle and vessel owners an incentive to surrender their end-of-life vehicle or vessel. Why does the Labour Party not want to give priority to this type of incentive rather than to increase taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e317	First of all, with regard to taxes and taxation and the fiscal policy that has been in place in this country for the last three years, I think it is a good expression of misguided policies at a time when you need massive efforts and support, not least for business, to create new jobs. Job growth is completely gone under the blue-blue government. Almost no new jobs are created – those created come in the public sector. It's a historically weak job growth. The Labour Party does not believe that taxes and taxes are the answer to everything, but we think that is the answer to a lot. We think that's the answer to a good community, a well-functioning society. We also believe that taxes and taxes are part of motivating people's behaviour on a daily basis. We have not added to any brutal tax conversion in the budget we have proposed – on the contrary. We are continuing a solid and faithful policy in the area that we have been doing in recent years. So we think most of the things are best solved in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e326	I want to start by giving some praise to the Workers' Party. The alternative budget they have provided is a good budget, I think – almost as well as the budget we are discussing today. My question is then whether we want to see an equally offensive climate budget if the Workers' Party comes into government position? The efforts of the Labour Party have not been as offensive in the past when they have been in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e333	Thanks for the rose and nice words! I agree with Mr Eide that this is a good budget. I also think that the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party was a much better government budget than what the government presented. With regard to the climate commitments we have presented in our alternative state budget, that is what we stand for, that is what we believe is feasible. We are showing this through a clear action plan for emissions reductions of more than 10 million tonnes by 2030. We've now launched the way we think it's right to go society, and we think it's a good policy for the climate, the future and for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e342	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e347	There has been an eventful harvest in political Norway. The discussions have been tough, the speculations have been many. What we have seen is policy and parliamentaryism in practice, proper discussions about real disagreements and political realities. Many have tried to represent the budget harvest as a ‘game’, and the political commentators thought it was exciting to use words as a ‘government crisis’ in their headlines again. But the reality is that we have good discussions between four different parties, the result of which is a budget that further strengthens climate and environmental policy. Eight years of majority rule and closed-room negotiations have obviously influenced the memory of many on how a budget gets a majority when it has a minority government. Actually, it's been a pretty normal budget harvest, and out in the hiking hall, the Christmas tree is already on. And there's a lot of nice packages under Storting's Christmas trees this year. The first package, which everyone talked about, and which several would open long before Christmas Eve, was the car package. It was large and fine and it was wrapped in with a blue loop. Many were probably in doubt whether it was going to be left untouched for a very long time, but it got it, and I know that there are more in this room that are particularly pleased with that. When the budget unit was in port, there were finally many fine – and green – packages under the tree. It was Enova packages and CO 2 fund packages, biofuel package and forest protection package, to mention something. With so many green packages we have that are concerned about climate and environment, most to rejoice over this Christmas. So maybe some people even want to claim that this year's green Christmas gifts were made in the most expensive way, but what are you not willing to give to those you're most happy about, and especially when it goes to a good cause? This is the government and the last budget of the cooperation parties in this period. We have co-operated with a historically good budget for climate, for natural diversity and for the environment. By doing so, I mean not only a budget that adds up to spending more money than ever on climate and environmental measures, but also that we are making some courageous choices for the future – when we strengthen the commitment to carbon capture and storage, on biofuels and with the commitment to create a new climate law. I would commend our cooperation parties for hard work and willingness to find constructive solutions that all four parties can stand together on. The climate debate can be confusing and difficult to understand. It's hard for us to work on it every day, but in between I think it must be completely incomprehensible to most people. We surround ourselves with concepts such as the ‘non-quota sector’, the ‘IPCC’, the ‘carbon budget’ and the ‘climate neutrality’ with the greatest of course. These are words that most people will have problems explaining the content of, or understanding. I think that's a challenge for all of us. In addition, the debate is marked by the fact that we too often forget the global perspective, because climate policy is not a Norwegian championship, nor is Norway a lag in climate policy, nor is it particularly wise to reduce the debate to a yes or no to the extraction of oil and gas on a Norwegian base. But it happens – over and over again – and we're going to hear it again today. I do not lose the night sleep because a few representatives in this assembly think it would be wise to wind up the country's most profitable industry, but I regret to say that many who work in the oil industry have slept poorly at night in the last year – not primarily because of the debates we have on the Stortinget, but because of the low oil price and downtime in the industry. 2016 has been a tough enough year for our most important industry, and too many have lost their jobs. The decline has hit some areas harder than others, and therefore the government has also had targeted measures to remedy the situation in the South-West. Fortunately, it now seems that the worst is over. This week, Norwegian oil and gas produced their short-term report entitled "Towards Better Times". This does not mean that the downturn is over, or that the exact cost cut requirements have been met. Also in 2017, investments on the base are expected to sink, in the rigging market the situation is still very demanding, and we have hardly seen the last rounds of downsizing in oil service. Nevertheless, there are traces of optimism. The interest for both 23rd concession round and TFO 2016 was high. This government will continue its efforts to offer attractive search areas, and as late as yesterday we sent TFO 2017 to the hearing. We who listen to the industry know that this is the main demand: predictable framework conditions and access to search area. That's what the government delivers. I know that not everyone agrees with this policy. I have already talked about those who want to wind up our oil and gas production. I have realized that someone will be effective in their struggle to liquidate profitable jobs and make the future unsafe. That is why we need others to take the task of making sure that this premise does not prevail in the climate debate. I'd like to do that. The government's proposals for the government budget and the outcome of the negotiations with our cooperation parties take a step closer to the 40 p.m. target. reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in 2030. We are strengthening efforts in all our priority areas of climate policy: transport conversion, green shifts in shipping, CO 2 management, development of low-carbon technologies in industry and strengthening the role of Norway as a renewable energy supplier. There is no doubt that the sum of the measures we are implementing under these measures will lead to a reduction in emissions. Transport is the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and emissions have increased steadily since 1990, as wealth increases and a larger population increases. Road traffic represents the clear largest share of these emissions, although shipping and aviation are also significant sources. These are trends we have to turn around if we're going to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. We're not just going to get more zero-emission cars on the roads, but we're also going to take action to phase in more biofuels. This is particularly important for heavy transport and in the long term for aviation. The escalation shall be fixed to the regulation, which is a clear signal that biofuels are worth betting on. This will provide predictability for both carriers and business alike. We have already seen examples of exciting synergies between established businesses, such as farming and the woodworking industry, among others. with the opening of Biokraft plants in Forest, which is the Nordic largest liquefied biogas plant. I have no doubt that increased demand for biofuels will lead to new jobs and new value creation here at home. However, Norway’s most important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions globally is our international effort and our contribution to the development of new climate-friendly technologies. Norway is and will continue to be a priority country for the conservation of the world’s forests. I am particularly pleased that the leaders will leave in the last year's position to increase their efforts in particularly carbon-rich forests, have been followed up. Our other major contribution to the international effort to reduce emissions is our effort to research and develop new climate-friendly technologies in industry and transport. But in this work one of the paradoxes of climate policy arises. Let me give you an example: all the games on Stortinget want to bet on climate technology. As a result, Enova has supported the aluminium pilot on Hydro Karmøy by 1.5 billion. kr. But this is industrial production that will lead to new greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. I am willing to defend that, because it also leads to technology development that reduces emissions globally. Unfortunately, there are some parties who choose to be on the shelf of this, but at the same time do not defend the consequences. It's the same batches that also refuse to deal with Norwegian oil and gas production being part of this same quota system, and that we ourselves have been involved in adopting new expansions on the base. That's to target a climate policy completely without coherence and logic, and that's why the climate debate gets so confusing. I wish we were in between a little less Norwegian, in the sense that we had a little less hurt by boasting about ourselves, because Norway is a precursor country when it's going to develop new climate-friendly technology. The advantages we have given electric cars have made our small country an important international market for the major car manufacturers, who are fighting to develop new models. Carbon capture and storage is another area where Norway’s efforts are significant in the international context. During this period of ageing, this work has cooled right after the disaster in Mongstad, for which the previous government stood. Norway is uniquely positioned to be a leading country in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We have the skills, businesses, people and resources to cope with the transition to a low-carbon society. Today is the day to cultivate our differences and highlight the differences between the parties, but we must not forget that, after all, we have a broad consensus on the direction of climate policy in this room. 2016 has been a alarming year in international policy, with progress for forces that are not going to be an ally in international climate work. More than ever, there will be a need for countries that are willing to go ahead and show that we are taking the climate challenge seriously — and that is what makes Norway, regardless of who controls this country. I think it's worth thinking about when we're going into Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e397	The representative Bru showed in his speech that climate could be incomprehensible to most people. After observing the budget negotiations in the autumn, I think maybe the incomprehensibleness of the climate is greater in the government and among the government parties than in the people most. For most people, it's pretty busy with the climate. But that's not what I'm going to ask. We have tried to do some calculations and understand what is contained in the budget package presented by the four parties. Our calculations show that the budget agreement for the non-quota sector up to 2030 will have an emission cut of more than 5 million tonnes of CO2. Can the figure match the estimates made by Bru regarding the impact of the budget agreement on greenhouse gas emissions by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e404	The figure we have referred to in the budget agreement on emissions reductions in this year's budget has been a 2017 figure. Then we have shown that this agreement and this year's government budget will cut emissions by approx. 600000 tonnes next year, in 2017. But I fully agree that it is 2030 that we must reach for and look for courage now. I have also tried to calculate the things we have done, both in the previous budget and what we are doing with this consensus, and I have tried to use the same calculation model that the Workers' Party has used on its actions. Now I don't know where the Aasland representative gets his numbers from, but when I use the same calculation model that the Workers' Party has used in its model, I end up at 11 million tons of politics run by the government parties and the cooperation parties. Now we don't have these models here, so we'll have to wait and see. But I think it is gratifying to see that there is no doubt that the cooperation parties and government parties are pushing the Labour Party in climate policy, and that they need to step up their efforts vigorously to keep up with it. I hope it will continue when one day they will return and rule the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e413	I think it's pretty bad to listen to Tina Bru now, because she makes it as if the Right has almost never been to have national climate targets. She says it's very confusing with all of these parties that sit on the Storting and are followers of cutting in the quota sector, and it's confusing the debate. The truth is that when we agreed in Stortinget that we would cut emissions in Norway down to 47 million tonnes by 2020, Tina Bru and her party traps came and said, "We're going to do better than you." The red-green government was miserable to do this. We need to do better. Tina Bru is now running from the promise to cut millions of tons – down to 47 million tons – by 2020. I think that's pretty bad, because the sum of her policies leads to increased emissions. Then the question is, does Tina Bru and her party do the job they promised before the elections, to achieve the climate goals for 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e422	All the years SV spent in the red-green government, increased emissions in Norway, with the exception of during the financial crisis, which is also the reason the representative’s batch traps have provided for how the emissions growth was under the red-green. My criticism when I say that the debate is confusing is just about this. The representative Holmås was a member of a government that helped to adopt not only very ambitious climate targets by 2020, but at the same time, right after that, helped to adopt expansions on the socket, which has helped to increase emissions in the quota sector, as it is now. My party was in on it, too. I've never tried to hide that. But when SV is in Stortinget and complains that emissions are rising, they must also agree that they have also contributed to this. That is what I think is confusing in the climate debate – that there is no distinction between the quota sector and the non-quota sector, and that parties that have been involved in adopting policies – whether there are Enova support or extensions on the base – do not take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e431	Man-made climate change is because we pick up carbon from the ground and pump it into the atmosphere. How much climate change we get is a direct result of how much carbon we pick up from the ground, and how much of it gets into the atmosphere. Then the representative Bru goes to the frontal attack on us who wants a planned closure of Norwegian oil operations according to the whole purpose of the Paris agreement, because it creates an unsafe future. For some of us, the unsafe future is just a result of excessive climate change. Does the representative Bru agree that the oil picked up by the Norwegian base contributes to further global warming, or does she think it does not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e440	Any fossil energy burned or produced results in emissions. There's no doubt about it. Of course, the representative is absolutely right. It also applies to Norwegian oil and gas. I fully agree that we are on our way into a future – and we have to go into a future – where there is renewable energy that should be what gives power to the world. But we are not yet where it can replace the enormous energy needs of the world. If we close Norwegian oil fields, that need will only be met by other countries. And all the time Norwegian oil and gas are produced with lower emissions on average, with strict environmental requirements and strict requirements for HMS, I think it makes sense that Norway is also involved and contributing. Not least I think Norwegian gas is going to be a very, very important bridge builder into the renewable society. You need something that can play with the renewable sources, like wind and sun, until you have, for example, Superb batteries. That day comes too, but it's not here yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e449	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e455	The representative of Aasland started his post by showing that there is a record high unemployment rate in Norway. Troms County is part of Norway, and there is 2pst unemployment. There are nine more unemployed this year than it was last year at the same time. Saying that it's record high means either that you're falling in fact, or that you don't realize that the country has more states. For unemployment has decreased in more counties than it has gone up. Then there is a situation in the South and West, which has increased unemployment, but there has been a number of measures taken by the government throughout this year and also last year to reduce unemployment. The environmental and climate challenges are global and require national as well as international solutions. The Paris Agreement and Norway’s joint emissions obligations with the EU are committed and ambitious objectives of climate policy. It is therefore important to use the precautionary principle and a generational perspective in the formulation of climate and environmental policies to provide a framework for all our policy fields. Norway, with its strong technology environments, a highly educated and competent population and renewable energy resources, is in a position to cope with the transition to a low-carbon society. Therefore, it will be important to prioritise climate and environmental measures that are cost-effective or that can contribute to major technological advances in transport, industry and power and in the construction sector. The market must also be used to make good climate and environmental solutions profitable. Good climate and environmental policies are not primarily budget lines and appropriations, but also many decisions that do not have a direct impact on the state budget. This means that all sectors and actors in society contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and local environmental pollution. The priorities of the 2017 government budget are very good and support the government’s five priority climate policy areas: reduced emissions from the transport sector, development of low-carbon technologies in industry, CO 2 management, renewable energy and environmentally friendly shipping. The Ministry of Climate and Environment’s budget is strengthened and contains several new initiatives. The Government proposes to strengthen the transfers to the Energy Fund in 2017, resulting in an increase in funding to Enova compared to 2016. Much of the solution to climate challenges lies in technology development and the replacement of fossil energy with renewable energy, resulting in lower greenhouse gas emissions. The Government proposes to strengthen research efforts in the non-quota sector to help achieve the 2030 targets. Stable energy supply is essential for a modern welfare society and a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. We are in a period of significant investments in the Norwegian transmission network. Statnett is planning investments of the order of 50-70 billion. kr in the period until 2025. These investments are mainly financed through the network tariff and are designed for the socio-economic efficient use of resources. The world will still need more energy. Fossil energy sources will be an important part of the world’s energy supply for many decades to come, and Norwegian oil and gas will be extracted with one of the world’s most stringent health, environmental and safety legislation. Therefore, Norwegian oil and gas, with its low environmental impact, will be an important climate contribution in the future. Today's newspaper reads that there is a majority in the Workers' Party who are opposed to oil drilling. In fact, the national meeting of the Workers' Party will make a decision on this, but it is interesting to note that the oil resistance in Troms and Finnmark is formidable on the part of the Workers' Party. I think that sends a signal to both the oil companies and the industry and to all those who fear their jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e486	We were many who warned against climate action when the Advance Party was to be brought into government and Siv Jensen was given the decisive word when the budgets were to be written. I believe that the sum of the four budgets presented by this government shows that those who warned were right. In this way, almost all we have to do is congratulate the Progress Party on its impact on climate – in its way. Korsberg has his last budget harvest here at Stortinget. One who might take his place in this debate in a year's time is Carl. I. Hagen, who has just been nominated in Oslo. He goes to the elections against climate hysterists. After being nominated, he stated that we see no progress in climate, and that IPPC cheats and cheats and deceives prime ministers and finance ministers in many countries to believe that CO2 has something to do with climate. This is easy to laugh at, but there is nothing to laugh about. Knowledge denial from a government party is not funny. That's why the Progress Party and Korsberg can take an unreserved distance from Carl. I. Hagen's view on climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e495	I think that Carl I. Hagen is going to affect the political climate more than he's going to affect the climate the next year. Carl I. Hagen is a fourth candidate on the list of the Oslo Progress Party and, when the Progress Party has adopted its new party programme, is to join an electoral campaign. Then I think it will be that everyone who has ambitions to get into the Storting, and who is on the different lists, will relate to the party program they are going to vote on. This four-year period, the Progress Party has been guided by the Government Declaration and the Cooperation Agreement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We've done that in a good way. Of course, the opposition is not satisfied with the climate policy we have pursued, but we have conducted a modern, forward-looking and solution-oriented climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e503	The party of progress is a party that boasts of not having to increase the taxes and charges to people. In this budget, first of all, fuel taxes have increased in a way that does not really have a particular impact on the climate. However, in addition to this, the Progress Party has been involved in increasing taxes and taxes for the power sector, i.e. a sector that contributes to high value creation in Norway. Firstly, power stations suffer a significant loss of income. In addition, the tax on basic interest is increasing for an industry that will in future contribute to significant value creation in Norway. How convenient does the Progress Party feel to help increase taxes on the hydropower industry in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e508	Let me just say that the car package is fixed – with which the representative started his question. It is also the case that the Progress Party in Government, together with the Cooperation Parties, has reduced the overall level of taxation and taxation in order to strengthen both business and individuals. With regard to the general level of taxation, or changes in the tax rate for municipalities, we have also made a change in that way, and believe that there is a proper way to get an adapted tax system – as is also stated in the budgetary position of the Committee on Finance, which deals with this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e513	I think Øyvind Korsberg knows Carl I. Hagen too well to believe that he will primarily follow the party program in the debate of the coming year. Carl I. Hagen follows Carl I. Hagen first and foremost. That aside – I am more interested in what Øyvind Korsberg means. It is, after all, that proposals have been made, and we had a climate deal to which Øyvind Korsberg and the Progress Party agreed, with a goal of reducing emissions in Norway to 47 million tonnes. Then my question is: Does Øyvind Korsberg think it is important to reduce Norwegian emissions to 47 million tonnes by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e520	What Carl I. Hagen is going to do in the future, gets the time to show. Øyvind Korsberg is going to mean what is in the cooperation statement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I'm going to follow out this period. After this period I will not be on Stortinget. Then I'm going to do completely different things, and I'm not going to raise the pay back. As far as emission reductions are concerned, a lot of time can be spent on a number debate on how much to do. What is crucial to me is that we have clear and good ambitions to achieve the objectives of the international agreements. At the same time, action is also taken to ensure that you do not enter a street where you change the framework conditions in such a dramatic way that it leads to unforeseeable individuals and businesses and high unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e527	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e532	Budgetary negotiations this year have been demanding. This is because we have negotiated a budget that will take us a step further towards a low-carbon society, because there is a transformation that will affect the whole of society, and because it will also involve unpopular measures. But what's the alternative? As politicians, we cannot sit still and see that climate change is becoming more and more evident, and do nothing. One of the three main ideological pillars of the Christian People's Party is trustworthiness. That means that we manage our planet on loans and have a responsibility to deliver it in at least the same condition to the later generations. Then it's worth listening to the children. The environmental agents wrote in a paper we got at the climate summit in Marrakech, seven points. I want to mention two of them: Point 4: Norway must cut its greenhouse gas emissions now! Point 6: Norway and the world must work towards a cleaner and more sustainable future! This is the order we got from the children, and we also have to deliver on it. The heading of the year's budgetary process is climate. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to have a climate budget that cuts emissions, sets up the pace of conversion to the low-carbon society and, not least, shows direction. It has been important for us that the measures are feasible and allow the citizens of Norway to end up with the measures. There have been tough negotiations, but we managed to move forward in the right direction. We have to keep doing this, because the climate in focus is not going to go away. We are also very pleased that a concreteisation of the Climate Act became part of the negotiations – a law that sets the target of the low-carbon society in 2050 for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway in the order of 80-95 p.m. from 1990 levels. A law with carbon budgets embedded in annual reporting to the Stortinget will ensure a longer-term climate policy. A climate law will oblige any government to follow up climate objectives. The size of the population must ensure that all social planning goes in the same direction. Here all states have to do their own thing, and we have to sweep at our own door. The considerable impact of interventions in other countries must never become a sleeping pad for their country’s migration. In the discussion of nature and governance, it is important to look at the contexts of nature and to think completely. Measures that have a good climate impact also have a positive impact on other nature-related issues. Better Ant Management is both a climate action and an important measure for species diversity. In the Arctic, we see a strong impact of climate change. One of the consequences is changed living conditions for the animals at the top of the food chain, the ice-dependent mammals. I'm glad we got an average of 5 million. kr for research on just this – an important acquisition of knowledge about the consequences of the biggest change in the world's living conditions over a very long time. It will be a quick pessimistic speech when we have these questions on the agenda, but we must not lose sight of them. It's valuable in itself, and it's part of raising the consciousness of ourselves, and not least of our children. There is a significant strengthening of measures in open air areas in the budget, and I am particularly pleased that we have put in place an extension of the archipelago service. I'm also happy that we got 15 million in place. kr to start of the Åknes project in More and Romesdal. This means an NVE can start the investigation of a drainage project after experience from Italy and Canada. If you can stabilize this mountain side, it means a lot to the ten thousand inhabitants who live along the fjord on Sunnmøre. The balancing of transmission tariffs is also important for many. This is a scheme that balances the differences arising from geography and housing patterns. We are pleased that we have managed to maintain this item in the 2017 budget as well. This is my last budget debate. I really know a little resentment, but I am proud to have been with and contributed, and hope I can tell my grandchildren that the state budget for 2017 had a curved path, but became the historic turning point for the green-shift thinking and action in Norway. Then I will report that we do not promote proposal No. 14, which we are with the Center Party, SV and MDG about in the setting, because it was adopted during yesterday's nutrition debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e568	Thanks to Rigmor Andersen Eide for a good post. I want to start by giving praise to the Christian People's Party and the Left who in the last two months have had a lot of debate about climate and the environment. They have definitely improved the state budget to the Right and the Advance Party. We understand that there has been no easy way, and that you have had to go and walk and use almost all the political instruments you have. It doesn't have to be like this. The Labour Party presented a government budget that cut emissions far more than the government budget did, but also more than what it ended up with in the conciliation. My question to Mr Eide is therefore: does she agree that the government we have, and the budgets it has provided, have proved to be an extreme in climate and environmental policy, and that there is a real majority in this Chamber for a much more offensive climate policy than the government is leading?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e575	I believe that what we have achieved, not least in the last budget, has taken climate policy in a new direction. Then I have already given praise to the Labour Party for the budget which, when it finally came, is good for the green shift. Surveys – yes, of course, we could have had an impact on climate policy in cooperation with the Labour Party and the second majority in this Chamber, but once said, cooperation is much more than climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e580	I have a question about fuel oil. During the entire period, SV has been committed to a total ban on all fossil energy used for the heating of barley. There we have seen that the Christian People's Party has been a gunman and our supporter. We first had an investigation of a total ban on heating oil in commercial buildings, too, and then in connection with the energy notification we received a unanimous decision in the Stortinget to ban any fossil heating of all constructions as soon as possible. Nevertheless, when the climate minister sends out a regulatory proposal at the hearing, in which he is reversing with the unanimous Stortinget, the Christian People's Party will not take part in criticising the government for doing so, while our friends in the Left are taking part in criticising the government. Why does the Christian People's Party refuse to criticise the government for so grossly breaking a unanimous decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e585	It's better to give praise than to criticize. The Christian People's Party has demonstrated that fossil warming is to be phased out. There's no doubt about it. There's no change in it. It is important to remind SV that this is a consultation proposal and not a matter that has been submitted to Stortinget. So I expect the government to work in line with the order of the bulk of the population, and that the matter will be submitted to the Stortinget in line with that. At the same time, I respect the government's efforts to streamline. They need time to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e594	I would also like to congratulate the Christian People's Party on a good contribution to making this year's government budget a little more environmentally friendly. As a result of the climate commitments of the Christian People’s Party, Norway needs to cut an average of 800000 tonnes of non-quota emissions in the non-quota sector from 2017 to 2030 each year. The Green Party is the only ones who put forward a budget that does. For that we have received a lot of criticism, including from the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad of the Christian People's Party, and the criticism is that this is unrealistic. Does the representative Andersen Eide agree that the only realistic also for the Christian People's Party is to cut 800,000 tonnes each year from 2017 until 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e602	We agree that there is a need to cut. We note that in its proposal, the Green Party is doing more work and is increasingly trying to force changes in behaviour on the part of the people in a short time. It's not a way that the Christian People's Party wants to go forward. This is a major intervention in people's lives and everyday lives. Then we think having the population with us is a wise procedure. Putting on petrol, as the Green Party wants, for example. So let's say I have 5 cents, I don't think we're going to go. We have to take the necessary steps, but we have to bring the people with us to get this through.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e607	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e612	What we're dealing with today is a very wide area, so let me take a slightly different angle of incidence than what we've seen so far in the debate. The Norwegian energy and power policy is a 100-year social compromise that has proved very sensible. It is a combination of repatriation and local ownership of the natural resources that has been the framework, which also ensures that the community receives its share of the values. In the autumn’s budget, the government proposed changes which resulted in Norwegian power stations facing a large loss of income from 2016 to 2017 – over 400 million. kr. The reason for this is that the capitalisation rate for hydropower is not adjusted in line with the market rate, thus having an adverse effect. In addition, the government promoted a proposal for an increase in interest-rate taxation which, on the other hand, hit the power industry very hard. It will provide one of Norway’s most important industries with poor opportunities to participate in the renewable energy value creation they should be in for years to come. These two proposals were very unfortunate. Suffering if the government didn't choose to get on the very core of the social compromise that I talked about, the right of return, the two proposals that one came along with, in combination with previous attempts at structural changes and the privatisation of foreign homes, are being experienced as a contribution to trying to break up the power sector in a very unfortunate way. We live in a country with an abundance of renewable energy. We all have opportunities to contribute to green growth based on those resources, but it requires a consistent and clear commitment to further renewable energy production and to technology development that provides the basis for value creation in Norway. There is no doubt that, from a climate perspective, the renewable sector will contribute to reducing emissions and also provide many opportunities for the Norwegian society. If one is to move on in the climate field and not be stuck in a discussion about calculations and figures, strategic and targeted efforts are also needed to achieve the objectives. It is not then a simple measure that is going to be decisive, but it is a set of measures. There are a couple of interesting points after this budgetary procedure that it is worth moving on with the parties in Stortinget and that we should also look at how we can follow up as quickly as possible. One concerns heavy transport, which accounts for a large proportion of emissions in the transport sector. It is positive that there is now a majority of a CO2 fund in which affiliated enterprises, instead of paying CO2 tax to the State, pay into a fund and, at the same time, apply for aid for emission reduction measures. However, if this measure is to be effective, it will have to start — and it will have to start as soon as possible, and there will also be uncertainty under the budget agreement. The central party believes that in order to kick such a measure in progress, the state must also be willing to enter into a fund with a share capital, and we propose that it be set aside for 1 billion. kr for that purpose. Another area where action is good is a long-term commitment to biofuels. Norway is very low in the proportion of biofuels compared to our neighbouring countries, Finland and Sweden. However, it is crucial in this area that biofuels producers are given long-term and safe framework conditions, so that they also make wise investment decisions over the years to come. It is therefore necessary to implement a plan for increasing the turnover requirement for biofuels and advanced biofuels in the years up to 2030. All the parties have reasonable notes, but we haven't been able to gather on notes related to that point. There seems to be a lot of sin in the Central Party, because where there is will, where everyone wills, it must also be the will to finally sit together and be ready to make a broad deal that creates security for those who are to bet in this sector. Green business conversion could be a significant strength for Norway. This is why the Centre Party is also committed to a strong strengthening of Enova, of environmental technology schemes, while proposing a green investment company to invest in companies that play a role in the development of climate-friendly solutions. There will be many sectors with development potential, both the maritime sector, the marine sector, the aluminium and ferro-alloy industries, the forest and wood processing industries and the food industry. Then I also want to underline the need to succeed in projects that can contribute to carbon capture and storage. Then, in a new article, I will come back to the question of another important area that is also covered in this budget, namely cultural memories. And with that, I would also like to promote the proposals that the Central Party is behind, or is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e640	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e647	We have dealt with many important issues in our committee in the last year. I can mention wolvesone, various protective items, lead hail, snowmobiles and a lot of oil and energy things. I would like to commend the Central Party and the representative Arnstad for showing great willingness to find different compromises in these matters, even though we do not in any way agree on all the details. The representative Arnstad and her party have obviously found it easier to find with the government parties in more of these classic policy areas than with their former government partners. Therefore, my question is: which of these areas would the Centre party be willing to sacrifice in a new government option with SV and perhaps also the Green Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e654	Firstly, the central part of this period is in opposition. Then we will follow our programme and vote on a case-by-case basis, and then we will also end up with the Right and the Advance Party in some cases. We think that's all right. It has helped us to have a majority on a number of issues, as the representative said when it came to snowmobiles and lead hail. The Center Party is very pleased with that. Unfortunately, we think that the Right Party and the Progressive Party have abandoned what they really think about predatory policy, and that is a little sad, because there we could also have formed a sensible majority. With regard to the budget for the autumn, the budgetary position shows that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party agree in very many areas on energy policy and climate policy. It's also good, it's also important. I can promise the representative that if the Senter party were to come into a position where we are to negotiate with other parties about a government platform, the Senter party would be advised to make hard demands in this area as well, and make sure that we get as much through as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e661	In the Central Party's alternative budget, 50 million have been allocated. kr extra, in addition to the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, for grants for predatory measures. In this context, it is natural to ask why the Senter Party left the negotiations for less than one hour, and therefore chose not to contribute to the wolf settlement in our country in order to ensure a long-term and predictable framework for the management of predators, and in particular wolf, in Norwegian nature – which in turn helps to reduce the conflict between predators and livestock farming. Is this an attempt to repair a self-inflicted damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e666	I was not aware that the representative put a stopwatch attached to the negotiations on the wolf earlier this year, so he was aware that we left the negotiations so and so long after they had started. We were in there for a period, but it's true that we left those negotiations, because the Central Party has a different view of wolf populations in Norway than the majority suggested. Then it would also have been wrong to sit in those negotiations and join the majority on that point. With regard to other aspects of predatory policies, which concern you, bears and the relationship with grazing priority areas, we have repeatedly invited the Right Party and the Advance Party to join a sensible majority in order to have a more sensible predatory policy in those areas. Unfortunately, the Right Party and the Advance Party have rejected it again and again. It has greatly amazemented the Centre Party, because we believe that there are great potential for improvement in Norwegian predatory policies, not least when it comes to taking into account grazing areas and those dependent on grazing production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e673	During this period, we have built up a significant investment in biofuels. It concerns both biogas with a new plant to be opened in Forest and other biofuels, both with reduced fees and with a new marketing requirement for biofuels. I perceive that the Center Party – despite the fact that when they were in government, this bet stopped – is now for an offensive investment in biofuels. At the same time, the Central Party on Stortinget is the party that is most opposed to using price mechanisms to make fossil fuel more expensive. Then my question is: does the Centre see no correlation between the prices of fossil fuels and the consumption of biofuels and the economic development that it provides, both with new production and not least for forest industries in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e680	The central party seems that these climate policy-related tax debates are often marginal. We also think that the budgetary procedure for the harvest shows that. Here we sit for almost three months and discuss some tigers on fuel, and later on, as if it were somehow the solution to climate policy in the future. People are shaking their heads. It does not create any legitimacy for the overall climate policy to conduct that kind of debate. I think that the Left and the Center parties have different starting points in terms of fiscal and climate policy. The left has an infinite confidence in the Green Tax Commission. It doesn't have the Center Party. We believe that the Green Tax Commission is bombing a lot of fields. It is very narrow and does not see the value creation potential that lies in climate policy. But what we can agree on now in the future is the marketing requirement for biofuels. I fully agree with the representative and with the Left that there are great opportunities here for Norwegian forestry. But then it is necessary that we go beyond the budgetary position, that we do not stand on every note, but gather in a common settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e689	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e695	Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is not a Norwegian championship, Erna Solberg said. It is repeated by Tina Bru today. It is possible, but if she thinks it is a national match, we lost the climate country fight against Sweden yesterday. The numbers' speech is clear: even though they in Sweden are twice as many as we are, they're dropping out less than us. If you think it is a European championship, Norway will be in the second place. It doesn't seem like Erna Solberg is worried, and it worries me. Cutting the world's greenhouse gas emissions to zero is more to compare with a skill than a championship, because we're all sitting in the same boat, and because everyone should deliver by ability. The message from the acclaimed Paris climate agreement was clear: each country must cut as much as possible, and it is important to get it by 2020 – good enough. The problem is that Norway is sinking climate change with today's government. Emissions are increasing, not only because of increased CO 2 emissions from new oil fields for which the Right and Left were jubilant, but because the sum of government policies and support batches does not cut emissions – emissions are increasing. Energy policy is a dark chapter – cut off renewable aid in Norway after 2021, almost eradicating renewable energy aid in developing countries, cut off the offshore wind deployment of Statkraft, no budget follow-up of the Storting decision to cut 10 TWh in energy use in the construction sector through Enova by 2030 and continued oil subsidies through the oil tax system. The size will have at least 11 pst. Biofuels. The Minister for Climate Change reversed the budget and wants lower ambitions. The size will prohibit all fossil energy use in buildings. The Minister for Climate Change takes up the fight again and opens up to use gas, and for commercial buildings to be able to get guys when it's cold. Transport policy has cut rail, cut cycle paths and extremely low follow-up of urban environmental agreements in government proposals. On the other hand, there is full pressure on motorway construction in competition with trains. The same is true in industrial policy. All investment decisions for carbon capture and storage have been pushed to after the choice. The problem of financing billions of investments has not yet been resolved. As far as the hydrogen content in industry is concerned, nothing has yet been done – including Enova in the new Enova agreement and post-election reports, in 2018. Coal intensity in the industry adopted by the Stortinget – nothing has yet been done, including Enova’s new agreement and post-election reports, in 2018. Offshore wind betting has not yet been addressed – address it with Enova, reports in the state budget after the elections, in 2018. I could still do that. In addition, it is such that the representative Tina Bru will soon have to look himself in the mirror and start to speak the truth. Emissions did not only decrease due to the financial crisis, when the Statistical Central Agency presented the annual emissions figures for 2015, they said: ‘After a long-term trend in greenhouse gas emissions reduction, emissions increased in 2015.’ That's the speech from the Statistical Central Bureau. Corresponding to future emissions due to our policies – the government’s own Environment Director’s presentation of the report published in 2014 says: ‘Our assessment is that measures and instruments implemented after 2007 and up to now will contribute to emissions reductions of between 5,3 and 6,1 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent in 2020.’;» In other words, in less than half the time, about half the work was done. A loop fit for the government that took over is called this in the football language. In reality, emissions have increased subsequently. The government has no plan in place for clean and safe air despite the fact that the Storting has adopted it. Low-emission zones have been pushed to after the election and environmental-differentiated charges through the bombings have been pushed on. Today, there is a warning of dangerous health air in Oslo. Finally, since this is the last environmental debate I get the opportunity to attend, I think it is important to point out some important things, because I want to say something about how SV has changed Norwegian environmental policy debate. It was SV who was the proposer for the conversion of the one-off fee to promote more fuel-rich cars. Now the government boasts that they achieve the climate goals that were set at that time. It was SV, together with the Left, who made proposals to impose emission requirements on taxis. It's coming now. It was SV who suggested that all State ferry offers should be based on zero emissions. Now it's embraced as an all-rounder. It was SV who suggested that all new cars should have zero emissions from 2025, the Workers' Party proposed from 2030. Now it's unanimous in Stortinget. I could still, the list is long. This is how we will continue to influence Norwegian climate and environmental policies. I refer to the proposals SV has promoted alone and together with the Greens/Greens/EFA in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e733	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e740	We who come from the districts are occupied with good air and have good air, but we are also concerned with district policy. Norwegian oil and gas must be the regional policy instrument of the times. SV has from when they put in government, said yes to new operations and new expansions. Even at the end of the last government period, they were with and produced a growth message entitled An industry for the future. Today, they say no to anything related to the industry: No to new exploration areas, no to new concessions, even in mature fields, no to Johan Sverdrup development – and yes to changes that exacerbate the framework conditions for the industry. My question is simple: is it really that SV will wind up the industry, with the consequences it has for District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e749	I think it should be quite obvious to everyone who has followed the debate, that we believe it is absolutely necessary to take on board that the Paris Agreement says that there will be no room for too much new oil and new gas within a Paris target of 1.5 degrees. Every time we've challenged the government parties and ask them if they can be willing to go through which oil fields, which oil resources have to remain within a 1.5-degree target, so that we also take the consequences of what the government has been negotiating in the world, the government answers: No, we won't. The Minister for Climate Change is jokingly saying that the most important thing we do to limit Norwegian oil extraction is electric car policy. All decisions in the electric car policy have been taken, but okay, now let it go. My clear opinion is that there is no room for the large expansion of the Barents Sea and for the new development of oil and gas in Norway that will follow if we assign new search blocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e756	Firstly, SV says that they want to convert environmental taxes in order to promote environmentally friendly behaviour, but SV does not say whether there are higher or more so-called environmental taxes with SV's policies. Secondly, SV has entered a separate section in which they comment on the climate and environmental effects of the budget unit. SV is very busy commenting on others, but what did SV get through on the SV's primary policy when they put in a majority government for eight years? Thirdly, it is good that SV now also sees the value of focusing on measures to reduce marine pollution. But why didn't SV focus on this when they were in a majority government for eight years? Didn't the problem exist at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e765	There were a lot of crazy questions here. I can say that we are concerned with marine pollution, and I feel that it is a long-term work that has been driven internationally by the Ministry of Climate and Environment, also under our government. Let me say the following about climate taxes: We are very clear that it will be more expensive to pollute. We want to increase the price of new fossil cars. We'll make it more expensive to pollute. We were first out saying that we think that the truck industry and the transport industry should pay more for CO 2 emissions, but get money back through a CO 2 fund – such as the NO X fund has worked – to ensure that the money goes to concrete emission reductions. We got a pass when we were in government, for this whole conversion of the one-off charges that led to emissions from new cars going down. And we helped get an impact on the NO X fund. The list of what we've done in government is long. The emission reductions in our period show a good part of that picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e788	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås and I are both representatives from Oslo, and there are some who have received significantly better tools during this period, these are the big cities – both by having been given the opportunity to introduce environmental zones, and by having been confirmed that technology requirements can be set for driving in central parts of the city already with today's legislation. It has been put in place – it has to be done – to set environmental standards for taxis. You've also got something as simple as a sign office, which you didn't have before. And there has been a significant increase in support for public transport; it is now well up to 2 billion. DKK in total in the big cities. Especially for Oslo and Akershus, it is now that you get a relief in the payment that the counties give to the NSB for price cooperation in public transport. This has been a problem for many years. Then my question becomes to Eidsvoll Holmås: Does he also think that this support and this change in payment will benefit the travellers, so that Oslo and Akershus should now stop the extraordinary price increases that are being made for public transport in Oslopackakt 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e797	Let me reply briefly to the last question: I think it would have been very good if a new opportunity to negotiate the money in Oslopackak3 could lead us to let go of the increase in collective prices contained in Oslopackak3, driven through, among other things. by right-wingers who prefer to have the Røa tunnel rather than keep toll prices down. Let's agree that it would have been good. I would like to commend the representative for having been involved in fighting through that increase in cities as well. It was quite wild that this would not apply to the cities, so that it was actually Router who paid for the low prices that the NSB held. Let me comment on something else that's lying there. It is not right that there was no commitment to public transport under our government. After all, we were the ones who started the big effort to upgrade the railway – which was down – and we were given, among other things. initiate the operation of the Oslo-Ski construction and the tunnel there. It's a problem... There was time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e808	That's it. That was for example the end. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e815	We're done with a budget settlement that almost gave the country a government crisis. It was because the Right Party and the Advance Party produced a budget that was absolutely amazingly indifferent to both the seriousness of climate and nature protection issues and their own promises. So the Left and Christian People's Party fought a battle for which the Green Party has praised them, while pointing out that it is a little strange that this settlement comes after three years of great promises – and had to lead to some kind of rescue to make the budget somewhat acceptable. Unfortunately, we have to sum up that the government and the cooperation parties have given up the climate agreement and that the budget that has been presented and will be adopted now has an unknown climate account. The result we won't know until next year or later. There are many good things that have come into the budget, thanks to the negotiations at the end. We appreciate that, but we have to be aware that here there is a very long way between the promises that were made and the deliveries that have come. One of the best things that have come out of this year's budget negotiations is that concrete deliveries within climate, emissions reduction targets, have now become a measure of the goodness of a budget. That's the way it has to be, it's a progress that we don't have to go back on. Climate policy has also become a benchmark for governance. Afterwards, it should be very difficult for a government to have a climate policy that is as unleaded as it has been normal to have so far. Climate policy has become a competitive factor between the large parties. We see that the Workers' Party has gone a lot, much longer than they've done before, to show that they're better than the Blue Government. It will be very exciting to see the Workers' Party in a possible government position and the deliveries they will bring there, in relation to what they promise now. But we are still in a situation where the Green Party is the only party that has such a realistic relationship with the climate issue that we present a budget that cuts as much emissions as you have to cut in order to meet the climate promises of all the other parties, i.e. 800,000 tonnes per year from 2017. It is interesting to experience the burning criticism that the Green Party meets to present a budget that delivers on the promises of the other parties. The budget we have presented is safe and secure to become the standard of climate policy in the budgets of other parties in the years to come. And then we'll have to endure a little bit of criticism in the meantime. We see a very exciting development in climate law. Here I would like to take the opportunity to praise Norwegian environmental movement, because that development shows the value of the pressure that an active and competent Norwegian environmental movement is constantly exercising on Stortinget and Norwegian climate policy. What started out as a good idea in WWF's premises right up the street here quite many years ago, that Norway should have a climate law, has through many years of hard work and ever more support led to first a decision that we should get a climate law, so a bad proposal from the government. But now we have agreed that we are going to have a climate law that is getting closer to what we really need, a climate law that requires total national targets, sectoral targets, temporal or multi-stage targets, reporting, etc. It is a major step forward and exactly what Norwegian climate policy needs. We saw this more clearly in this year's budget debate than ever before. For the time being, we're just going to get this in 2020, well into the next period. The Green Party has proposed that this climate law should be implemented from 2017, because it is from 2017 that we need it. We hope that we will receive support for this gradually. Then we need a boost for Norwegian nature. There is no successful climate policy that also does not take care of nature. There is no sustainable policy that does not also take care of Norwegian nature. We're not there at all. I would like to remind you of a proposal, among others: The Green Party is presenting the proposal for a plan to protect the remaining Norwegian, pristine nature. It will bring natural policy up to the level of climate policy and is a necessary prerequisite for a sustainable policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e844	Hydro’s aluminium pilot on Karmøy is an example of new low-emission technology in industry, but will also increase Norwegian emissions at the same time. Does the Green Party support Enova's support for this type of project? I also take another example: it is well known that coal is worse for the climate than natural gas. Does the representative Hansson agree with that? And if so, why should Norway not deliver this gas to Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e849	Answer one: Yes, we support the commitment to Hydro, but of course it has to happen within a climate budget. That's why we year after year insist that the government has to present an overall climate budget that provides total cut. Of course, the increases in emissions resulting from an industrial effort need to be compensated for by other emission cuts, which are relatively elementary. Gas is another story. Gas is lifting carbon out of fossil stocks and spraying it into the atmosphere. It contributes to increased climate change. That is why we say: we need to move on to renewable energy supply, and Norway needs to have a planned closure of its oil and gas activities because it is completely impossible to continue producing climate change and oil and gas in Norway while meeting the international climate objectives. And that's something we have to plan for, not sit and wait until the world market fixes in a way that creates uncontrolled unemployment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e856	The Greens have to say that they are a block-independent party. The truth, as I see it, is that the party is apparently green on the outside, but red on the inside – not quite different from the color and consistency of a watermelon. It seems to me that the Green Party would like to be in addition to Norway being an oil and gas nation. So why is the Environment Party of the Greens' Alternative State Budget dependent on revenues from the petroleum sector in order to make it jump? Have you become completely Ole Brumm?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e863	The Green Party regrettably reiterates the need for Norway to carry out its oil and gas activities on a planned basis. This is a position that is becoming more and more sensible because – first of all – we see that oil and gas activities need to be replaced by other activities whose world is going to achieve the climate objectives, and because oil and gas prices in the world, among other things. Due to competition from renewable technologies, public resources are less and less appropriate to further develop Norwegian oil and gas activities. We're dealing with the budgets and the business community that Norway has today, when we make a budget. Then we ask for a planned change in Norwegian society, in line with the goal of signing the Paris Agreement. We believe that this can happen already in the course of a 20-year period, and it will also be accompanied by changes in our budgets – just as it will have to be accompanied by changes in the budget of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e870	I think the Green Party is the toughest in the class in the climate debate, not least in terms of measures that will force major behavioural changes in a short time – without taking into account what this means for people's lives. Does the representative believe that the green shift should be a top-level process of rapid change rather than a process that gives people and businesses time to change?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e875	The Green Party is concerned about what uncontrolled climate change will mean for people's lives, for the lives of our children and grandchildren, and we are concerned about what kind of responsibility we have here and now to prevent the disastrous consequences it will have if Norway continues the climate policy they are pursuing today, which does not cut emissions, and of which the Christian People's Party is part. If Norway is to cut emissions according to the promises made by the Christian People's Party itself, it is necessary to do something to cut emissions. And so the Green Party does. It's going to have some consequences that not everyone likes, but it's also going to have the consequence that politics becomes a little more credible than the policies that, among other things, are. Christian People's Party leads where you promise and promise, and never keep what you promise. It creates political disdain, and it does not solve the climate problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e880	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e885	Let me first thank the Left and Christian People's Party, which has contributed to good budget priorities. And let me thank the Committee for a good job in a short time. Climate action in the budget proposals of this government has been strengthened following negotiations with the cooperation parties. It has happened this year again; the greenest budget of the time has become even greener. We build on the cooperation that we agreed on when this ageing period started: strengthening the climate agreement. We have strengthened green research and innovation far beyond the climate agreement, through Enova, but also in the Research Council and Innovation Norway, because large technology leaps are needed to get to the low-carbon society. We have agreed on a powerful over-fulfillment of the red-green national transport plan. The total investment in environmentally friendly transport has increased by almost 1.5 billion in this budgetary agreement. kr. This means that we overcomply with the railway planning framework in NTP by nearly 5.2 billion. kr., and we are committed to overfilling the NTP for public transport rewards by more than 30 pst. Then, together with the cooperation parties, we have set out 2030 targets, which means a time gap in climate policy. We're going to cut 40 pst. until 2030. We will receive the national emissions budget through cooperation with the EU. We are going to be subject to a strict reporting and control regime. This means that we are going to make significant emissions cuts in transport and agriculture, and we are going to take strong action in this budget in that direction, not least by extending and strengthening the benefits of moving from fossil to renewable energy through a huge effort on charging infrastructure, by stepping up efforts for climate technologies, a strong priority for green shipping, an offensive, predictable and planned commitment to biofuels and new offensive measures to make goods and heavy goods transport greener. Let me mention that outside the budget, the government has provided an agricultural message that clearly announces that agriculture has a great job to do with cutting emissions in line with the 2030 climate targets. We and the cooperation parties also agree on a strengthened climate law, in which we legislate the carbon budgets we will receive for the 2030 targets, in which we legislate for the five-year ambition increases required by the Paris Agreement, and in which we legislate that the low-carbon society in 2050 will mean 80-95 pst. lower emissions. We also provide a strengthening of the budget for municipal measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The Climate Action Facility shall address some of the best projects on greenhouse gas reduction and migration to the low-emission society. The greatest increase in the budgetary agreement is the conversion of the one-off charge. We add the one-off charge for a vehicle in line with the overall review of the car charges, the removal of the power components in the one-off charge is more than offset by increased charges for CO 2 and NO X emissions. The overall review of car charges in 2015 indicated a direction for the development of car charges with a greater emphasis on the environment. It has been followed up and will help achieve the objective of a newer, safer and more environmentally friendly car park. In the budgetary agreement, depreciation rates for zero-emission goods cars shall be increased to 30 pst, against 20 pst. in 2016. The budgetary agreement also provides for an important strengthening of classical nature protection and cultural memory protection. The blue nature gets a huge rise of 60 million. kr more for liming, wild salmon and new salmon steps. The effort on voluntary forest protection is further increased. In four years, the cooperation parties have invested far more than the previous government did in its eight years. We have more than doubled the pace of forest protection work. We are getting stronger control of alien species, especially mink and Pacific oysters, and we are increasing efforts to restore ants, which are important both for natural diversity and for carbon storage. Culture memory measures are reinforced by 50 million. kr for private-owned and protected buildings, the Swedish Vessel Protection Centre, value creation and the Swedish Cultural Memory Fund. These are subsidies that deliver rapid results in the field of cultural memory. It ensures protection values that are important for the whole nation and in addition triggers large private protection efforts that double the State appropriations. In particular, improving the framework conditions for private owners of protected and conservation cultural memories is a priority of the government and the strengthening of the subsidy items for this is an important contribution to that work. Finally, let me remind you, as many people have pointed out, that although the climate action we are taking in Norway is important, there is reason to stress that the most important thing we do is to make a solid Norwegian contribution to effective global action against the greatest global challenge of our time, namely climate change. Here, climate and forest activities stand in a special position. We have seen good progress and good results from this effort this year, and we are also pleased with the increase in the budget agreement in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e912	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e917	One of the most central discussions following the presentation of the State budget was the impact on the climate as a result of the state budget. That discussion took a few weeks — a few months — and then one has come up with a result. What has become a central discussion related to this is: What reductions in emissions will the budget agreement actually bring about by 2030? It's hard to calculate, I understand that, but I want to find out if the Council of State is behind its Tina Bru and her estimates of emissions cut in 2030 as a result of the budget agreement of more than 11 million tonnes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e923	It can never be anything but estimates when we talk about consequences for individual budget discharges. We know where we have to be in 2030, but it's not like that -- and it shouldn't be like that, and it's not going to be like that -- that means we have to mathematically divide where we have to be in 2030, every year between here and 2030. Today's bets include: in public transport, in climate and environmental technologies and in electric car policy, will deliver significantly greater results in the future. Among other things, we can assume that with a projection of today's derogation in the electric car sector, a quarter of what we're going to do by 2030 will be done. But we're not going to care about doing what we're doing today, we're going to do more both on the collective and on the electrification of the transport sector. I am sure that in 2030 we will be there, not least because we get annual emission budgets and a much stricter climate regime than Norway has been used to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e928	It should worry the Council of State that he is unable to calculate the consequences of his own government budget, nor the consequences of the budgetary agreement that has been concluded. Our estimates show from the figures made known by the Environment Directorate and others that the budget agreement involves cuts by 2030 in excess of 5 million tonnes. Then the representative Tina Bru claims that this is over 11 million tons. We have provided a separate calculation of what we look like from our alternative state budget and the emission obligations we want to have by 2030. It is quite essential that a person is able to calculate the impact of the State budgets and the agreements that are concluded. I would like to ask again: what are the consequences of the budgetary agreement reached by the Council of State? Will the estimate be closer to 11 million tonnes than over 5 million tonnes, or how does the Minister for Climate and Environment think that the budgetary agreement and the basis for...? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e937	I am sure that we will achieve the 2030 targets, and that what we are doing this year is an important contribution to getting there. But it's not this budget alone that's going to do it. We have to do it on every budget between now and 2030. We estimate that the biofuel escalation could mean up to 1 million tonnes of reductions in 2020. That means a lot more in 2030. We estimate that electric car policy alone can mean a quarter of a million tonnes in 2020, but much more in the years after that. When we see that we overfill the red-green railway bet by 5.2 billion. kr, when we look at the CO 2 fund to be established, when we look at the incentives for vans, so that we also get electrification and hydrogenisation in vans and heavy goods transport, yes, I am absolutely sure that we will see significant results. Although we cannot see the results of everything we do year after year, but of what we do, much of the investment we make today will produce great results in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e947	As mentioned in the articles of the Council of State, we have together strengthened the scope of action of the Council of State and the ability to do a good job quite significantly. Then it is tempting to ask the Minister for Climate and Environment if he hoped that the Christian People's Party and the Left would succeed in the negotiations to improve both the climate profile and the focus on classical nature protection compared to what was in the government's own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e954	I said in my post that I am very satisfied with the good cooperation we have with the cooperation parties. We have that from a cooperation agreement that has been very clear that we are going to strengthen the climate agreement. It is not unexpected for us from year to year that the cooperation parties want more of us in the climate and environmental field, and I am going into those discussions with an open mind and am very satisfied with the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e959	I was actually going to ask the Council of State how quickly the CO 2 business transport fund could get started. But since the Council of State struck so much on the chest when it came to rail and transportation, I have to be allowed to follow it up a little. One of the most important things that can be done in public transport is to electrify Norwegian railways. It'll give immediate CO2 cut. It would have cut about as much if one had electrified the Thunderway, as the cooperation parties found out in this new budget agreement that they now agreed on. But then the government and the cooperation parties have decided on a point of investigating and postponing the electrification of the Trunder Railway in such a way that you might have to wait another 20 years to get the greenhouse gas reduction profit that it could bring. Then I have to ask the Council of State: does he think it is good climate policy to postpone the electrification of the railway – and then, in particular, the Trønderbahn – that was proposed in the financial debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e974	The government and the cooperation parties have good reason to be satisfied with the strengthening of the green transport policy, and not least of the railway policy we have achieved. We have overfilled the railway planning framework in the first four-year period in NTP by nearly 5.2 billion. kr. When it comes to the issue of electrification, it's true that we want to investigate the Tronderbahn. I have to leave to my colleague in the Ministry of Transport to go into the details around it. However, one of the issues that is important is whether there is electrification or other means of reducing emissions, for example: hydrogen, which may be the most suitable. Hydrogen development has been somewhat shorter than electrification, but it is important that we make investments today that we do not regret in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e981	Governments pointed out that this is a good budget for natural diversity and classical nature protection, and I fully agree with that. Especially when it is not cut for the Environment Directorate, and we are based on the budget for the current year, this is good for next year. We are doing this to follow up the decisions we made in dealing with the natural diversity communication, but we are also doing so in order to follow up the international commitments we have in this field as well. We now have a situation where the predators are in favour of a dramatic shooting down of one of our most endangered species, the wolf. There is a complaint about this at the Council of State. These decisions go far beyond what at least the Left would consider to be within the obligations of the Berne Convention. Then my question becomes: will the Council of State ensure that no decisions are taken here that go beyond the obligations of the Berne Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e988	It is true, as the representative of Elvesuen says, that the effort for natural diversity is significantly strengthened in this budget, and that it is important for national natural diversity, but also for national climate action, and it is important for the fulfilment of our international obligations. One of those commitments is completely solar clear after the Berne Convention, it is caring for a Norwegian wolf population. We do that, and it is a task we take seriously within the framework of the decision of the Storting, within the framework of the Berne Convention, as an international commitment, and within the framework of the Nature Diversity Act. Now the complaint about the killing permits is pending, and I cannot therefore go into detail about it, but we have to make an assessment based on the decision of the Storting, based on the Berne Convention and based on the provisions and conditions of the Nature Diversity Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e995	I expect Helgesen to believe that the Right People must be able to measure their results, and then I must say, initially, that I am pleased that the new national air quality targets finally came into place, two and a half years after the recommendations came from the trade unions, and after the two votes have been voted down by the government parties. But on the other hand, today there is a notified health-damaging air in Oslo. During its period, the government has not proposed any increase in the local emission component of the one-off charge. They have been forced to introduce low-emission zones, and the work has been trained after the government first sent a proposal to consult where Bergen and Oslo would have been excluded. They trained the introduction of environmental differentiation of tolls, so that it is now the fourth winter that the government is in power, where no new measures have yet been taken. Does the government think they've done what you could expect of them, to secure people's clean and safe air – nothing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1004	I understand the impatience of Eidsvoll Holmås, he is even so impatient that he tries to run past other replicants. We have provided tools and tools to the municipalities to enable them to initiate action. Therefore, the municipalities are now the main addressees of the question asked by Eidsvoll Holmås. What measures will they now take where air pollution levels are unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1012	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1017	When the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party was presented, the Prime Minister said that the climate agreement has always been seen as a minimum. Not once in four years has the government submitted proposals for climate action that arouse climate enthusiasm or enhance climate reconciliation. Bellona Chief Frederic Hauge called the budget disastrously bad. He said, ‘Our job has shifted from taking care of business with politicians to taking care of politicians along with business.’ Kåre Gunnar Føystad, post manager of ZERO, said: ‘The budget proposal contains few traces of the green tax shift that would deliver ‘significant reductions in climate emissions’. If this is as far as the government will go, it must be regarded as a removal request.» I wonder how it feels for the Left and Christian People's Party once again to have to fight for climate action to be implemented by the government. The size has adopted an ambitious target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but with an ambitious target, it must take action. Our main instrument in climate policy is Enova. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to increase the appropriations for Enova, precisely to build the zero-emission vehicle infrastructure in the transport sector and to invest in biofuels, shore-side electricity and the electrification of the ferry. We believe that we need to spend money on infrastructure, because the Storting has decided that the new car sales in 2025 should only be based on a zero-emission vehicle. We are perfectly open that the infrastructure must be in place if we are to be able to reach it, and the infrastructure must be in place throughout the country. Speaking of the whole country, I am a little surprised when the representative Korsberg refers to unemployment rates in Troms and it is clear that Norway is not facing such major unemployment challenges. For those who are unemployed, it is a poor comfort that central politicians from the government parties indicate that they have lost their jobs in North Norway during this period of government – it is not so dangerous, it is, after all, few unemployed in North Norway. It's going to be a bit like what Bjørnster Bjørnson wrote in the VG in 1889 about Andersen from Toten: ‘Skidt in Norway,’ said ‘Live Toten!’ The fact is that the proportion not at work in 2016 is expected to be the highest in excess of 20 years. During the time of the Labour Party in government, 360 000 more jobs were created in Norway, two out of three in the private sector. Under this government, 32 000 – 32 000 – more jobs have been created, two out of three in the public sector. The speech of the figures is clear: the crisis package of which the representative Mr Korsberg boasts has not led to fewer job vacancies and more jobs. The Labour Party has on several occasions made proposals to mitigate the decline in activity, particularly in the South and West, but these have been voted down. This fall we have seen how difficult it has been for the Left and Christian People's Party to reach agreement with the Right and the Advance Party in climate policy, despite the fact that the government once again draws the card and spends more money than ever. The working party's alternative budget provides for greater emission reductions than the budget agreement, both in 2017 and in the long term, but most importantly, our proposals bring us far safer to the Paris objectives in 2030. For the first time, we are presenting an emission budget. We're pointing out the sectors where we're going to make cuts, we're pointing out the measures we're going to do, and we're fixing the emission cuts. So let's do budget priorities that are in line with this. This fall we have seen that the discussion is more about emission cuts and not about dollars and ears. To achieve the Paris target, we need to cut emissions by more than 10 million tonnes in sectors outside the quota system by 2030. I record that we do not get the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen, to respond in relation to the emissions cuts in 2030, and I encourage him to explain when he will speak later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1052	As this is the fourth and last budget we have to deal with from this government, it may be in place with some summary comments as well as talking about the 2017 budget. Since the oil price fell in the summer of 2014, we have seen extreme changes in the petroleum industry. The activity has fallen. 35 000 to 40 000 jobs have disappeared. Offshore drilling companies and rigging companies are dissociating, and the supply industry is also struggling. In Stavanger Aftenblad we can read that three out of four rigs stand without a contract in the summer of 2017. Between 10,000 and 11,000 jobs are lost as a result of a lack of jobs for these riggings. It's not the first time we've seen a steep fall in prices and subsequent activity drying. The times when the Workers' Party has been in power in similar downfalls, we have put in place countercyclical measures to mitigate the adverse effects. During this period, the Labour Party has on several occasions made proposals for measures to promote activity and to strengthen the Norwegian supplier industry. These have been voted down. Today's government has largely let oil companies manage and thus set the premise for the development of the industry. I would like to remind you that since the start, Norwegian petroleum policy has been aimed at creating jobs and values throughout the industry and throughout the country. The revenues from the sale of oil and the taxation of oil production are only part of the objective. The workplaces and value creation in the supply industry must also weigh heavily in the choices we politicians make in the petroleum policy. Maybe we've reached the bottom now. The market is in the process of being balanced. Prices are rising. The IEA now joins those who point to the need for large investments in new production capacity that can compensate for a fall in production from today’s field. We now have to ask ourselves if we are equipped to handle such an increase in activity without losing the benefits of the efficiency work. Do we have the capacity to resume maintenance, well study and decommissioning while increasing exploration activity and field development? Or do we get a new cost gap? In the Workers' Party, we fear that we are losing capacity and competence and therefore propose that an action plan be drawn up to ensure that maintenance is carried out, and that we benefit from free rigging capacity for well study. There is a broad consensus in the Storting on the importance of CO 2 management in achieving global climate goals. Norway and Norwegian actors are well ahead in this field. The feasibility study presented this summer shows that there are three good candidates for full-scale CO 2 management in Norway: Norcem in Brevik, Yara’s ammonia factory in Hereya and the recycling facility at Klemetsrud in Oslo. These three are different projects, but all have the potential to be good demonstration projects within their industries. The working party therefore believes that we should take into account the realization of all three projects. We believe that this will give economies of scale, and that will provide complementary understanding of CCS. It's urgent to develop and not least realize CCS. We therefore refer to the Stortinget's request decision from May where the government is asked to ensure the realisation of at least one CCS plant by 2020. We share the government's concern about processes that can lead to costs being out of control, but indicate that there is a difference in how far the various projects have come. It also gives rise to differences in the risk of the individual project. In addition to the carbon capture projects, transport and storage must be carried out. We believe that Norwegian cap has the potential to develop a European central stockpiles of CO 2. Such a project will both create jobs and generate income for a long time in the future. So the working party is more ambitious than the government and its supporting parties. We want a catch project to be carried out. We want to realize all three, and we believe that work must be done in a transport and storage solution in order to be able to accept captured CO 2. We have therefore added an increase of 150 million in our alternative state budget. kr on cap. 1840 CO 2 handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1088	It is not entirely unnatural when we are discussing the state budget today within the framework of which the Committee on Energy and the Environment is responsible, that we are primarily discussing what we are going to spend the money on. However, I would like to spend a few seconds in my post reminding us of where the money we are discussing today is how to distribute, coming from. The production of oil and gas is Norway's largest and most important industry, both for employment and, in particular, for income in the country. Petroleum industry accounts for around one quarter of total value added in Norway, and the potential to continue to reap values and revenues to the country and create thousands of jobs remains high. We have far more than half of the gas left and something less than half of the oil left. The industry has always been, is and will probably remain a cyclical industry in the future. Therefore, stability and predictable frameworks by the state are of great importance if we are to continue to derive values from this industry in the future. I am happy to say that during this fall alone we have received five plans for the development and operation of new oil fields and not least gas fields on Norwegian base, and that it looks very promising that next year we will also be able to decide on major and important projects on Norwegian base. Access to new land is essential for industry to continue to create hundreds of thousands of jobs. The government also delivers within the area, as we promised both in the election campaign for the government parties in 2013 and in the Sundvolden declaration. There is no doubt that the steps that are now being taken in the industry are important for creating values in the future as well. At the same time, I believe that the representative Per Rune Henriksen has a point when he says that it is important both that the industry takes care of competence and capacity, and that the government facilitates this, along with the bulk of the population. The strengthening done by the government both in the field of knowledge and within the responsibility of the Ministry of Oil and Energy in the fields of technology development, research and demonstration of new technologies contributes to the maintenance of this capacity and competence. However, there is no doubt that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a power system that is already used for much more purposes today than it is in all, most of the other countries in the world, must be used better and more – for new purposes, for example. within the transport area. That's why I'm happy to say that it's not just being built out more new renewable energy than one has done in the last 25 years – it's actually being expanded twice as much new renewable energy in Norway as the average in the last 25 years. Today, renewable energy is under development in Norway between 7 and 8 TWh as a result of decisions taken in this hall by the majority of the population. I'm glad. At the same time, we also need to upgrade our power grid to allow this transition, and it's going to be between 100 billion in the decades ahead of us. kr and 150 br. kr just to allow the use of new renewable energy for several purposes, not least in the transport sector in the future. I am pleased that the bulk of the population today will decide to strengthen the important work Enova does together with Norwegian industry and Norwegian business with 390 million. kr. It comes to the top of that we have strengthened Enova's work in all the budgets we have agreed so far. Then I will briefly just mention carbon capture and storage. Carbon capture and storage are essential if we are to achieve our climate goals globally without cost exceeding what is strictly necessary. I am very pleased with the broad support in Stortinget for the work the government is doing within that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1105	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1110	The main criticism of the government's petroleum policy by the working party is what has not been done. The government has not slowed down the development of the Norwegian oil industry in those years. It is the sum of the oil companies' dispositions that have determined the evolution. But then there's a field where the government actually rules sovereignly, regardless of the market in my opinion. I refer to the government platform where it is said that the government will ‘to facilitate increased diversity and competition on the basis of new concessions and oper­ations’. But what we're looking at is the TFO allocations that have been, is the number of companies going down from 48 in 2013 to 36 in 2015. The authorisations granted to Statoil increased from 10 out of 65 to 24 out of 56 in 2015 and the operators granted to Statoil increased from 7 in 2013 to 13 in 2015. What has the Council of State done to achieve the objective of greater diversity and more competition on the ground?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1120	The history description that Henriksen's representative puts on the table, I actually don't remember. The oil industry on Norwegian soil, and not least globally, is in a very demanding situation. Many countries around us have had to cancel the full allocation of new land, not least where they produce and allocate the area offshore, as we do in Norway. I am pleased that when we have broad support in Stortinget, among others. the areas allocated by the Workers' Party in the 23rd round were still of considerable interest from national oil companies. It must mean that Norwegian pedestal is still perceived as attractive by a variety of companies. And if I am not very wrong, Statoil was allocated approx. 40 pst. of the operators in the 23rd round, far less than the share of the operators they have on the Norwegian base today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1125	But it shows that we still get a concentration, and we get fewer companies on Norwegian base, a situation that should worry us all. In order to take another of the government parties' taboos in the previous period, where it was about Petoro, the requirement was to – and it is also stated in the government platform – ‘strengthen Petoro by financing directly over the cash flow from DIEE’. In the 2014 budget we granted 351.5 million. kr to Petoro. In the 2017 budget, which we are now discussing, 352.3 million will be allocated. So I'm going to add up to $800,000. Does the Council of State think that they have succeeded in strengthening Petoro, and have the government parties now given up the dream of financing Petoro over the SEDØE's cash flow?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1132	Let me first talk a little bit more about what we were inside. I fully agree with Mr Henriksen that diversity on a Norwegian base is very important. There has been an incredible amount of value creation on the Norwegian base. That is why I am pleased with what is now happening, where we see medium-sized Norwegian and European companies building up on a Norwegian base. We've got Aker BP in port during this year, Lundin is in strong growth on Norwegian pedestal, and both will contribute to increased diversity on Norwegian pedestal. That's good. In the case of Petoro, they are also an important player in the work on a Norwegian base. They follow up on the management of our common values. As the representative Henriksen himself points out, Petoro is strengthened, but when it comes to assessing the financing of Petoro over the cash flow, the government has not concluded that it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1139	When the government provided the budget, the subsidy for the balancing of transfer tariffs was completely eliminated. Fortunately, we got 10 million back in place. to this end in the budgetary agreement. This is good district policy. Why is the Council of State so concerned about removing this scheme? And another question: is it only to press smaller power companies to merge?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1144	The representative is well aware of my position on the scheme, and I live very well with the fact that that scheme was negotiated again in the annual budgetary settlement. That means that in the order of magnitude approx. three companies will receive support to reduce the tariff also next year. One of those companies has already been merged, precisely because it has a much greater impact on local network leases. It's Rødøy-Lurøy Kraftwerk, which is going to have a much larger reduction in network finance because they're now going to be merged into a company other than they're going to get based on the budget agreement. I believe that the representative has a very good point when she points out, as she knows I also agree, that a merger gives far greater effect and much more efficient operation than the net balancing system provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1150	Governments have pointed out the importance of revenue in the oil and energy sectors, and that is quite correct. In the energy sector, the distribution of revenue is also important. In this draft budget, one view has been that the government first proposed to increase the rent tax in such a way as to increase the tax on electricity companies. At the other end, one also chooses to organize things in such a way that the income of a number of power municipalities will be reduced because the interest rate on capitalisation has not increased in line with market interest rates. In the budget agreement, there is an cryptic point about a reassessment of the capitalisation rate, and then my question is, Will one do it before New Year, or will one wait until next year? In other words, the municipalities of power are expected to lose 400 million. kr from 1 January, or can they expect the Council of State and Government to act before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1159	Now I believe that the representative Arnstad is merging several relationships. The main reason for the fall in property taxes – the income of municipalities – is that one has replaced the record year 2010 in the calculation of property taxes by the spring of 2015. Thus, the calculation of the property tax fell significantly. So it's that the rent is also tightened. There is a result of a settlement – a broad deal here in Stortinget – in the context of the tax reform, where the Stortinget clearly stated that the base rate of the cash flow to the State should be maintained. It had consequences for the power industry. It has consequences for the oil industry. In any case, this is relatively far from the responsibility of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Minister of State for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1168	It affects the power sector very much. I have to be allowed to say that. The councils are, even though in the previous line he spoke about his own personal views, part of the government. If it is that capitalisation rate does not matter – why is it mentioned in the budget agreement? Why is it a separate point in the budget agreement on capitalisation rates for power stations if there is only a natural shift in the market? Why, then, did he say that he should evaluate it? For one, a more predictable calculation system could also be envisaged here. But my question remains: may the powerhouses blame themselves for the de facto loss of 400 million. kr from 1 January, or will anything happen with regard to the point contained in the budget agreement before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1177	The government has provided a budget, and in that budget there were no net balancing grants at all. I am fully behind that, while I believe that what has been included in the budget agreement is to live with. Then I hope we have clarified this with my personal opinion. I am, of course, behind the government. It is true, of course, that the representative Arnstad points out that the basic interest tax and the tax calculation for both the municipalities and the state affect the businesses that I am responsible for within my department. Equally, it is the Minister of Finance who is responsible for these kinds of questions, and I cannot, of course, guarantee anything on behalf of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1184	One of the important decisions taken after the budgetary conciliation is a verbal decision in which the Storting asks the government in the perspective communication to discuss the consequences of a new global climate target to limit global warming – at a maximum of 1.5 degrees, the correct one is well below 2 degrees and down to 1.5 degrees – may have for the Norwegian petroleum policy facility. It is now important to see the petroleum policy in the light of the Paris Agreement and the changes that will have to come over the next 20–30–40 years to achieve the objectives. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State agree that it is now important that we take this discussion and that the risk profile when the Paris agreement is being implemented will change, and that it is important that the risk associated with the investments made is not in the community, but that this is to a greater extent the decision of the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1194	The representative of Elvesuen and I agree that if we are to succeed in achieving the climate objectives, we must quickly reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the production and use of fossil energy sources. That means that we have to bring down production and use of coal dramatically quickly. This means that if the world succeeds in this, it will also negatively affect the demand for oil, which in the long term may also affect the profitability of production on Norwegian soil – while most of the projections indicate that the demand for gas, which is what we have the most left on Norwegian soil, will increase in a relatively long perspective, just to phase out coal as quickly as possible. The answer to the question is that, of course, global energy and climate policies will influence profitability assessments. But I'm glad that the companies have the primary responsibility to make those kind of assessments on Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1203	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1208	The size treats this autumn's last environmental budget during this period. This is the judgment of what the Right Party government has done in its time in government. As for the climate and the environment, this is embarrassing reading. We have a government that in four years can hardly point to a single new initiative in climate and environmental policy. All that has happened, all they have to refer to, is either victory of the Left and the Christian People's Party, or that the government has been overrun by an overall opposition. This year, too, there was total slaughter from an overall environmental movement. Nina Jensen in WWF said what it is: the environmental budget was a rejection from Erna Solberg. Furthermore, she said: If we are concerned about getting a green shift, there are obviously some others who have to sit in government in the future. It's now approx. One year ago Vidar Helgesen became Minister for Climate and Environment. His first big play was when he said over the first side of the Evening Post that he didn't know if the emissions were going to go down with him as the Council of State. It would turn out to be a good vote, because the emissions have not gone down, they have gone up. But then the climate minister simply does not do his job. Those statements by the Minister are the recipe for not reaching the Paris Agreement. For the Paris agreement, it is precisely that each country should go home and do its part of the job. It must then be possible to expect emissions reductions in four years. This is how Vidar Helgesen has experienced the same thing as when the Prime Minister described Tine Sundtoft's working day: it's hard to stand up for the climate in a government where no one is so concerned about it. And you shouldn't have much imagination to see who the Prime Minister referred to, it was Finance Minister Siv Jensen. We have a climate policy that has lost for Siv Jensen and the Progress Party for almost four years. All honours to the Left and Christian People's Party, who fought for the climate in the negotiations. They've made more improvements. But it doesn't have to be this way, because it's in this room the majority for a much better climate policy than the one we're actually running, that cuts emissions more than what we're adopting this harvest. I believe that the Christian People's Party and the Left today have had more impact on the Labour Party's budget, and that is before negotiations had begun. One of the main problems is that we simply do not know what the budgetary conciliation involves by means of emission cuts either. We hear their spokespersons say one thing here in the Chamber, but the Council of State is unable to say anything more than that he hopes and believes that it will lead to significant results in 2030. It just doesn't last. We must be able to expect that the climate minister is clearer about what these decisions we are making will actually mean. Also for Norwegian nature it has been lost years. In the context of the reports that the Stortinge dealt with this year, on outdoor life and natural diversity, the Stortinge has taken a number of decisions. These are hard to find in the state budget. The Labour Party proposes in the budget a major effort in the field of outdoors, because outdoors provide good natural experiences, and you learn to be like nature, you have a gift for life and perhaps the most important measure for public health. We are proposing a great boost for Norwegian nature, because loss of biodiversity is, in addition to the climate challenge, the second really big environmental problem. Species die at an alarming rate. During this government there has been a standstill in prioritising new species under the Nature Diversity Act. Only 13 new species have been introduced. If we continue at this rate, the organisation Sabima believes that it will take 200 years before we secure them about 400 species recommended by the professional authorities. There are many reasons why the country needs a new majority, and one of the most important is definitely climate and environmental policy. Over this four-year period, environmental policy has been at an extreme point in time. It's given us four lost years. We need a majority that takes new initiatives to cut the CO2 emissions so it really monks. We need a majority to ensure that all the inhabitants are fresh and clean air. We need a majority that takes care of Norwegian nature and ensures good conditions for outdoors. That is why next year the elections will also be a fateful choice if we are to reach our international climate commitments and take great steps towards the low-carbon society of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1221	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1226	Research teams have pointed out for several years that the regions that have to dispose of their natural resources are among the most important players in the transition to the renewable society. Our ancestors in this house saw the significance of this social contract between city and country already in the childhood of hydropower. Hydropower is in the districts. This has been an important prerequisite for Norway to be one of the world’s leading renewable nations today. Host municipalities to hydropower have consistently taken a positive view of the development, much thanks to the fact that parts of the value creation have been retained where the values have been created. Predictable power revenues have been crucial for the prosperity development of large parts of District Norway. In my opinion, the government has broken this social contract with its management of the property tax on power plants in the autumn. In spite of the fact that an almost unanimous increase with the co-operation parties has asked the Minister of Finance to assess the capitalisation rate for power plants, she replied in a letter dated 13 December to the undersigned that such an assessment will not be made in this harvest session, which the representative Arnstad was also concerned with in a question of succession, and to which the Council of State could not respond. But now the answer is clear. The consequence is that almost 200 municipalities in 2017 will lose about 400 million. NOK in taxes on property because of the incorrect calculation of the market value. When the Minister of Finance answers that the time is now too short to make an assessment before the end of the year, I am reminded of the expression ‘righting behind for smith’. The fact is that the inhabitants of the nearly 200 municipalities concerned will suffer because the Minister of Finance has not done the job that Stortinget ordered in 2013 – to assess the capitalisation rate of the annual budget proposal. So the job should have been done before 6 October this fall. The fact that it is now too late to carry out that assessment cannot be described as self-evident. I would urge the parties behind the request decision to pursue the matter. The last words should not have been said in this case from this pulpit. This is not a contribution to the financial debate, but a contribution to the energy and environmental debate. Many municipalities have already replied that when the state with a few months' notice amounts to 400 million. kr of municipal property tax revenue, the municipalities are deprived of an important incentive to join in new natural interventions that further hydropower development requires of them. The Minister of Finance is driving municipalities from co-players to counter-players in the renewable initiative. I would urge the parties behind the request decision to exercise the necessary pressure as much as I can. It is not a lack of time, but a lack of political will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1244	Yesterday I was at the opening of Norway's first renewable incubator Watts Up, which is behind TronderEnergy and NTNU Accel. Here entrepreneurs are to gather and hatch new and innovative solutions that will give us more jobs and profitable businesses. Watts up is a good example of how we want the green shift in practice: new ideas and solutions that help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time provide more, safer jobs. The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are united behind a historical commitment to research and development that will lay the basis for the transformation necessary to achieve the ambitious objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. With maybe $2.50. kr to Enova, nearly 1 billion. SEK to the Research Council, about 500 million. SEK to the Eco-Technology Scheme in Innovation Norway, around 200 million. kr to CO 2 project and a small half billion to Gassnova. Here, there is a commitment to basic research and to relieving risks in the market for commercialising new technologies. Without these means, the biogas plant in the forest could not have removed the foundation stone 14 days ago. The factory will produce liquefied biogas from raw material from the farming industry and the forest industry to fuel for buses and boats. Wastes that are initially a problem are used to reduce emissions from the transport sector while creating new and safe jobs. We want more of these cheek eggs. For the four civil parties, Enova is one of the main tools for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and achieving the low-carbon society. One of the success factors of Enova is that they have great professional freedom to develop tools and to grant support to individual projects. Enova shall contribute to the development of market solutions that can be sustainable. In order to ensure Enova predictability at the level of transfers and not to depend on the level of interest rates, we support the government's proposal that the transfers from the Energy Fund be replaced by an ordinary cost allocation. Yes, there is a need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions — even here in the country, and also in 2017. We must not lose sight of the fact that the most important thing is to make a long-term transition to the low-carbon society. If we're to succeed in that transition, everyone has to play on the same team. It has to pay off for business, and the people have to experience everyday life becoming simpler and better. A good example is those who bought an electric car. They don't want to go back to a fossilly driven car – not just because of the economic benefits, but because they experience electric cars as better to use. This year's budget negotiations show that we are not taking lightly the measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That is why I am extremely pleased that the bourgeois parties are united in an offensive and forward-looking budget that will contribute to more jobs across the country, better well-being and significant emission cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1262	I thought we were going to have a debate on our budget, but I see that we've got a turn to finance as well. And we can't leave it unsaid this with rent taxes and interest on capitalization. In fact, in the case of the land interest tax, this government has not adopted it – it has been done through a broad tax settlement on the Storting. They wanted to lower the corporate tax and compensate for it by increasing the rent tax on land. Of course, the government has followed up, it should just be missing. So at the capitalisation rate. What makes the value of these power companies go down is – naturally – that the power prices have fallen. We've introduced green certificates. We have an overproduction of renewable energy in this country, which we are all pleased with. What happens then is that the value of the power companies goes down, too much of the value they're sitting on, is tied up to the price they get for their power. It's quite natural what happens then, that the value of the companies goes down. And of course, it'll work when you're calculating property taxes. Of course, this should have been calculated by those in the municipalities, given that you have a good regime and have quite good systems for how this will work. Then it's a little paradox that many of the municipalities that are now coming and asking for an increase in the capitalisation rate, so you shouldn't in a way increase the value of the companies, are also owners of power companies. When we know that the renewable industry is struggling with its competitive conditions, perhaps the trick is not to increase taxes and taxes for the same companies in the same breath. I'm not so sure that it necessarily provides the best incentive for them to make the investments they have to do with the green shift, in which they also have to participate. The tax regime related to the renewable industry has remained stable. The capitalisation rate has also been fixed and unadjusted, and the level of interest rates has been reasonably stable over many years in many ways. What's the big difference is that the value of the force has decreased and, consequently, the value of the companies as well. That is the direct reason why the value of the property tax for municipalities also goes down. Then you can discuss whether it's good or bad, but it's like a natural consequence of the regime we have. Then the question is whether to only unilaterally increase the capitalisation rate and in a way increase the value of the companies, so that the competitiveness of these power companies and other framework conditions are reduced. We don't think that makes sense. Of course, it makes sense to look at taxes and the tax system around renewable energy, and I am sure we will have the opportunity to do so in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1275	Today's debate is largely about climate and CO 2 emissions. It is important for the whole world, and it is also important for Norway. The budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left well responds to our common challenges in this area. This government conducts offensive climate policies and raises ambitions with the Christian People's Party and the Left to a greater extent than in any other majority period. But it is easy to forget other important parts of a budget when writing headlines. I would therefore like to address some of the positive aspects of both the original draft budget by the government and the agreement in the field of classical nature protection. Our forests contain extensive biodiversity, and the government proposed to continue the major effort in forest protection by 392 million. kr. This is further increased by 50 million. kr in the budget agreement. Here you can also plug in the increased climate and forest investment for a total of 2.8 billion. kr in 2017, which was added even more to the agreement. The government is strengthening marine ecosystem research by 10 million. kr, including SEK 600 000 for a project on coastal cod in Fäder and Outer Hyler national parks. As an industrious user of the Oslo Earth, I know that the missing cod worries a lot, and the budget agreement adds up to even more knowledge. Seas are one of six priority areas in the long-term plan for research and higher education under this government. Furthermore, the management of the wildax strain was reinforced by 25 million. NOK 11,5 million. kr added for better control of the salmon problems, together with another 60 million. kr for liming, wild salmon and the Water Directive. Earlier this year, the government provided a nature diversity message and an open-air message. Many of the measures were widely agreed on, and this is followed up both by the government and by the agreement between the four parties. Of all the items proposed, I would like to highlight measures in secure open-air areas with 20 million. kr as very positive and – perhaps the most important reinforcement – a further 35 million. kr to ecological base map. Updated knowledge of natural diversity is both cost-saving and time-saving when different plans are to be addressed in municipalities and departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1287	First of all, I would like to comment on the article for Per Rune Henriksen. He personally wants more activity in the field of oil and gas development, but it seems that the majority of the Workers' Party is opposed to such development, not least in the north. This is the opposite of what the Progress Party wants. We want to create activity and jobs in Norway. Norway as a nation cannot rely on SV and MDG policies. But now we see that the Workers' Party may be in the process of implementing the same policy that SV and MDG have, and it's a cross of thought. The environmental and climate challenge is global and requires both national and international solutions. Good climate and environmental policies mean that all sectors and actors in society contribute to reducing emissions and local environmental pollution. The government will therefore strengthen the transfer to the Energy Fund in 2017, which in turn will strengthen Enova. Following the budgetary union with the Left and Christian People's Party, Enova's transport operations are increasing by another 300 million. kr. Much of the solution to our challenges lies in technology development and replacing fossil energy with renewable energy, not least in transport. A good budget has become even better with the budgetary union with the Left and Christian People's Party. Some things are closer to our hearts than others. I am personally incredibly happy that we got funds in place to build new salmon steps in Wefsna, I appreciate that very much. It is also very important that measures against marine pollution are strengthened and that the archipelago service is a priority. During the year, the Committee has examined both the notification. St. 14 for 2015–2016 on natural diversity and Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Outdoor activities increase well-being, improve public health and increase understanding and interest in taking care of Norwegian nature and biodiversity. The government presented a series of measures to motivate and recruit more people to participate in the outdoors and to preserve areas for outdoors, to which a broad majority of the Stortinget joined. A broad wolf settlement was also concluded, reducing the boundaries of the wolf zone slightly, and transferring the administration — both within and outside the zone and for the border revirons — to the regional predators. In the end, I would like to thank the Left and Christian People's Party for their good cooperation, I would like to thank the Committee, and we hope that Christmas peace will soon sink over the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1300	When the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and countless trade unions point out that large, well-known reserves of coal, oil and gas must remain underground if we are to avoid great global warming, it is because anthropogenic climate change is anchored in simple physics: the amount of carbon that we collect from the ground and pumps into the atmosphere is the most important factor that determines global warming. Therefore, it is particularly relevant how much each country decides to collect from its coal, oil and gas reserves in order to be sold, burned and pumped into the atmosphere. Norway's greatest contribution to global warming is the oil and gas we produce and sell. In total, Norway has contributed 14 billion tonnes of CO2 to global warming during our oil and gas era. This is a major contribution from Norway to global warming. The decision on how much more oil and gas to be produced from the Norwegian side, in other words, how much more Norwegian carbon is going to be in the atmosphere and producing even more global warming, is being taken here, in this room when we take a stand for concessional rounds that open up an expectation of picking up new amounts of coal, oil and gas, and the decision is taken here when we open up for production in new fields. When we decided to open the Johan Sverdrup field, against MDG's votes, we decided to add another 900 million tonnes of CO2 to the Earth's atmosphere, and you know well that Norway releases annually and that we are arguing about here in debates, 53 million tonnes of emissions. 900 million tonnes of CO2 added, just from Johan Sverdrup, was decided here. That is why the Greens proposed that we stop the 23rd concession round, because it was a round that was a decision on a massive increase in Norwegian contribution to global warming, and therefore we propose the same on 24th concession round. At least what we want to encourage is that all parties now take inwards that we have to think about the concession rounds and oil production as part of Norwegian climate policy responsibility. We can't keep pretending that the decisions we make in this room about how much carbon we're going to produce and deliver to the atmosphere and for future global warming, don't concern us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1310	I would like to take this opportunity to mention a few areas which are also included in today's budget, but which I did not have the opportunity to touch on in my main post. One concerns the implementation of this government's efforts to eliminate the balancing of transmission tariffs. Year after year, that item has been reduced. So it's been patched up a little bit in the budget agreements. This year, the Christian People's Party has contributed 10 million. kr. The council says that he is personally happy about it, but that does not prevent what this government has done, simply trying to erase that arrangement. That's what the Center Party thinks is very unfortunate, and it doesn't help with 10 million. kr for the purpose of correcting the damage that has occurred over three to four years. If this scheme is to function, it must be extended in a completely different way. It is also not a sufficient argument, I think, to say that there are going to be structural changes here, so there is no need for this system. It's still the way in which online rental inequalities are going to exist for many, many years to come. The attempts at reduction have meant higher network rentals for many thousands of online customers in different parts of the country. The Central Party has proposed that this scheme should be strengthened by 100 million. kr, and it's just as a first step up in what should be a broader system of getting more equal net tariffs across the country. Let me also mention cultural memories in particular. There is a broad consensus in political Norway that cultural memories and the cultural environment are important parts of what we call the collective memory of society. The cultural heritage gives us knowledge, stories and experiences that can be of great importance to belonging, individual and collective maritime understanding, and that can create prosperity for individuals and groups. Often it is also socio-economically profitable to restore and care for old buildings rather than to demolish and build new ones. Less waste is generated, there is less material needs, and more jobs are created per invested crown. In many ways, cultural memories are also a valuable source of economic development and value creation in many ways. The problem today is that the government has given up implementing a policy that can meet the so-called 2020 targets that we all agree on. It is obvious that those objectives will not be achieved by the level of appropriations to which the current government has committed itself. They have simply not carried out the escalation necessary to achieve those objectives. There will be particular major challenges in the case of private, world heritage, and in the case of technical and industrial cultural memories, protective vessels, rock art and archaeological cultural memories. There is no lack of will, but there is a lack of the ability of this government to do something about those things, and the Central Party believes that at least well over 100 million. kr is necessary in the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1323	The environmental movement said that the Left and Christian People's Party would lose all environmental credibility if they failed to establish a budget that was better than the Workers' Party's alternative budget. As a result, budgetary negotiations were not only about crowns but also about tonnes of emissions. I think it is good that the discussion has been about that. We are also trying to get the debate today to be more about tons of emissions than about dollars, but I see that the Minister for Climate and Environment has not signed up and is not willing to answer the questions he has received from the Workers' Party here today. We hear that the climate change figure in the Right, based on its calculations, believes that the cooperation parties' climate package will lead to about 11 million tonnes of emissions in 2030. We've calculated it in a rough and straightforward way and we've come to the conclusion that it will be 5.3 million tons cut, while our package – which is mentioned several times here today, but I have to mention it again – will lead to a 10.7 million tons cut in 2030. So can the Minister for Climate and Environment go up on this pulpit today and say how large the emission cuts will be in the non-quota sector by 2030? Of course, it's hard to figure out in the future, but you can expect the government to look at it and evaluate it when we keep talking about the 2030 targets. That's what we do in every financial year, that counts. When Erna Solberg took part in the Political Quarter on Monday after the budget comrades had presented their agreement, she said that in 2017, the emission cuts would be 662,500 tonnes of CO2. CICERO researchers have calculated this, and they say that the collaboration parties have decorated the climate spaces. The numbering is extensive – a total of two thirds of the emissions cut disappeared after the verification calculation. The government has thus inflated the emission cuts for 2017, and it may look as if they do for 2030 as well. I would like to hear the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment answer the challenge: how much will the greenhouse gas emissions in the non-quota sector be by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1338	First, like Marit Arnstad, I want to take up cultural memory protection, which I think is a very important and positive part of this reconciliation. We now get an increase in the Cultural Memory Fund that makes this period almost double the size. We've reached over 100 million. kr a year, which triggers a lot of private investment, we're doing a raise for privately owned saved building with a further 25 million. kr, and we continue to invest in ship protection, both in ship protection centres and in ship protection more generally, in this budget. It is important to take care of historical settlements. Let's do a couple of small grips. Among other things, I am glad that we get a small sum to look at a building protection center for the brick town of Oslo. We must bear in mind that caring for historical settlements is also an important part of climate action. It's just using what we have, we're reducing future emissions. In this debate, greenhouse gas emissions have been dominant. I believe that this budget is taking a major step forward towards the objectives we have, not least the mid-term objective in 2020, but also in 2030. We know that it is primarily in the transport sector that we need to reduce our own emissions, and then the reinforcement of the zero-emission vehicle is important, so that we reach the targets for the sale of just a zero-emission vehicle by 2025. The uptake and incorporation of biofuels is a key element in achieving the 2030 targets. It also shows the assessments of the Environment Directorate. We are at the forefront in the application of hydrogen – in the application of zero emission solutions within shipping. With a CO2 fund, we will also be able to lie in front, jump and start the most ambitious heavy transport projects. We also have decisions in which we follow up the policy I myself have been pursuing in Oslo, because we have ambitions in the construction industry – that we are now launching fossil-free construction site projects in the transport sector, so that the State Road Service and the Directorate for Railways can use their muscles to drag us to the front. In the end, it's taken four years, but it's probably the first time we've been so ambitious that the Labour Party too believes we've presented a budget that takes climate seriously. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1351	I honor the climate minister when he's at international climate meetings. I hope he and the skilled climate diplomats get a pass. But it looks very strange when the climate minister – the same minister who gives great talks abroad – suggests cut here at home. Last year, Siv Jensen's savings knife really hit the international climate work. This year, too, the promises made to the rainforest were not fulfilled. An overall committee notes that what the government’s draft budget provided would make it ‘hard to find new countries of cooperation’ and that what the government provided for was also contrary to what the Great Government had previously decided, both during this period and in the climate agreement. We heard again the climate minister say in the debate that this government is strengthening the climate agreement. To me, it's a mystery how to repeat it, as long as you can't say you're going to satisfy the climate agreement. If you want to strengthen something, at least you have to be able to do it. I hope the Minister can answer whether he intends to achieve what the Storting has decided as its objectives. After all, the climate agreement is not a series of instruments to be measured. No, the climate agreement is to be measured by what is actually our emissions. In the policy pursued by the government, there is nothing to suggest that this government intends to implement the climate agreement. All arrows point in the wrong direction. Not least, we don't know much about what's going to be our emissions in the future. We heard Tina Bru say that this was going to give 11 million tonnes in cuts by 2030, while the climate minister can't even tell if there's a place between 5 million tons and 11 million tons. We're not asking for an exact, exact, number, but an estimate must at least be possible to expect. I would like to remind you that the Minister also has speaking time in this debate, and has the opportunity to sign up to clarify. One of the cuts in nature and the environment was a major cut to the Environment Directorate. A dozen employees would have lost their jobs with that proposal. It is alarming that the Council of State considers that they do not need these and that it will reduce environmental management, which will lead to a significant reduction in capacity. So I'm very happy that the Left and Christian People's Party has had the advantage to reverse it cut. I heard the climate minister say on Dagsrevyen that with what was now decided in Stortinget, there was a great need to have these people employed in the directorate. If there was a lack of tasks the minister should have read the nature diversity message and the decisions Stortinget made in connection with it. There are a number of marshes for the Minister of Nature and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1363	What made me take the floor was the intervention of the representative, Odd Henriksen. Henriksen says that the impairment in the power sector is completely natural. Does Henriksen really think that an impairment of 54 billion dollars? kr, or 20 pst., in one year is natural? I can almost not believe what I hear, that the power sector has fallen so much in value. I also asked about 4.5 pst. is a normal market rate. Furthermore, it is said that the municipalities should have calculated this themselves. No, the municipalities are proud that the Ministry of Finance is doing their job. What the municipalities have learned is that this government is not to be trusted. Can Henriksen also explain why there is a request decision following the debate on the budgetary conciliation between the cooperation parties? Did one not mean anything about the agreement entered into in the budget agreement to review this? I also believe that the cooperation parties have some expectations when the government does that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1374	Nature is threatened by human intervention and climate change, and the reason why I take it into account in the budget debate is the following: neither the oil nor the environment budget – as I see it – is a disaster; it's just not near being good enough. So I can agree with what a representative has said here earlier, namely that a poor budget has become a little less bad. Indeed, there are expected wolf massages this year and broad motorways through vulnerable natural areas. The fact that the Minister for Climate and Environment does not lift a finger against the top of a protected old forest, that the government allows for dumping in the fjords, pleasure driving with scooters, the development of power in protected watercourses and oil extraction without taking into account one single objection from environmental pollution, means that, in sum, the overall policy pursued by the government leads to nature being more threatened by human intervention and more threatened by climate change than it was four years ago. So this is the government of the Left and the Christian People's Party, and I can't see that the policy of the government lies closer to the values of the Christian People's Party and the Left in these areas than the politics of the Red-Green Government did. Let me do some points. Forest protection: Summarized, over the last four years, the government has proposed two cuts in voluntary forest protection. Luckily, that hasn't happened. But it's like the sum of forest protection is worse forest protection than the escalating plan for voluntary forest protection presented by the Red-Green Environment Minister, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, who had led us to just over 700 million. kr. Outdoors: A great message was presented, and a belly pad in the budget was added to it through the budget negotiations that lie here. We had also provided a better outdoor life. The cultural memory field is far behind. Here we stand with, among other things. The centre party of a large escalating plan for the cultural memory field. So I want to mention one thing at the end to Tord Lien, and that is that despite the fact that Tord Lien did not want to give priority to energy efficiency in the building mass, the Stortinge has clearly stated that we want to be an important part of Enova’s mandate both in the energy communication and in the budget presented. Finally, one thing about oil: oil has gone from accounting for a quarter of GDP to a seventh of GDP, as it is now, at the time I have been sitting on the Stortinget. I believe it is immoral for the government not to want to take a discussion about the oil space within a one-and-a-half-degree target. The liberalist magazine The Economist has devoted an entire number four weeks ago to the question of ‘end of oil’. It is precisely that the development of batteries, how the renewables have become cheaper, and the climate agreement together contribute to a debate in a country such as Norway on how this affects Norwegian development. The Green Tax Commission has said the same thing. Something else is irresponsible by the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1394	I tried to be a little rough with all the games in Stortinget in my post here instead. I was quite clear that I believe that all the parties in this Chamber take climate policy seriously. I think we're essentially moving in the same direction when it comes to the important things – and then it's something that separates us, that's quite clear. I understand that the SV and especially the Green Party do not want to be part of the story I'm trying to get along with, but that the Labour Party in this Chamber is going to sit in the situation they are doing, by blackmailing the government's budget and agreeing with the cooperation parties on climate policy in the way they do, I think it's simply strange. But I'm getting used to it, because this is the same thing every year. I don't understand. There has been a lot of talk about emission reductions and calculations. Let me try to solve it a little bit first, because there are so many questions about it. First of all, calculations of emission reductions are not an accurate science. It's just the future that can give us the fasit. All the numbers we use are at best estimates of what we think, and we in the Right are leaning on the same estimates that the Labour Party has made in its model. We use the Environment Directorate, we use the departments, we use e.g. NHO's own estimates of what the CO2 fund can contribute. With regard to the number 11 million tonnes, I have combined both the quota sector and the non-quota sector. But if you separate that, our figures are 9 million in the non-quota sector and 2 million in the quota sector. I haven't seen the calculations that the Workers' Party uses for the Right Policy, so it's a little difficult for me to decide on on this speaker's chair. So I fully agree that we need a better system to know what the emission paths are. But here, too, I think it's a little strange to hear the criticism from the Workers' Party, because the Soria Moria statement of 2009 stated that we should have climate budgets, and we pointed out the emission levels and measures. It never brought the red-green government on. But now we will, thanks to the government's decision, did together with the cooperation parties in the Energy Communication, thanks to the Climate Act. The reason why we don't have a system on this today is that it hasn't been before. There'll be better numbers in the perspective message, but it'll take time to create such a system. But when the Workers' Party gets so angry at us not to do this, they can also look in the mirror, because they should have delivered this on their own. So all the way to the end. It's referred to the numbers from CICERO. CICERO has himself said to the evening post that to some extent they compare apples and pears in this debate. I have great respect for CICERO as a research institution, but they do not include all proposals. They're raining, for example. not with the effect of biofuel bets, because they are not available, and those figures will also be somewhat deficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1407	The representative of Bru has now explained the assessment of emissions by the cooperation parties. We are committed to the good measures that are in the budget now, which will provide emission reductions next year, and even greater emission reductions in the years to come, due to the long-term, systematic climate policy of which the government and the cooperation parties are united. We saw the need to strengthen the measures of the climate agreement. We were behind us when we took over, a few years of diesel car records, with jumping-ball policies on biofuels, with the cutting-off of the CCS project, the plan to close the electric car policy at 50,000 electric cars sold, no increase in the fuel charge at all, and almost one-sided belief in quota purchases as climate policy. It's not nice that we had to take new action. We did so by strengthening measures for the 2020 targets and a whole new grip on Norwegian climate policy towards 2030 – a time-span in Norwegian climate policy, a farewell to the quota buying era that the red-green government represented. We're going to get concrete emissions budgets year after year, and then there's no doubt that we're going to achieve the 2030 targets, as opposed to what it's been like in the past when we didn't have concrete emissions budgets. We're going to report internationally on these emissions budgets, and we're going to risk additional obligations if we don't do our job. That is why it is so important that, with the system approach, we take action not only on emissions reductions next year, but which are fundamental system changes in the transport sector, in the mobility sector, which will take us to the low-emission society by 2050, and which will achieve the 40 pst target by 2030 on the road to the low-emission society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1414	First of all, let me assure you that the Workers' Party takes up the proposals that the Workers' Party has made, both alone and with others. We also support the setting, with the exception of the themes dealing with the different framework areas. Work and climate are two important things for people – and not least for our future. Then it's a fact that the government hasn't delivered in those two areas, and it's not that easy to be overbearing with the government in that particular area – as a little visit to the representative Tina Brus posts. So we're in a situation where we have almost 140,000 people in this country who are unemployed. The growth of private sector jobs that was cloud-high is now virtually out of date. We have an oil and energy minister who – when he goes off – most of everything is going to be remembered for everything he didn't do. Of course, this isn't about Troms, but it's about a society and a country that's on the wrong track, that's going in the wrong direction, and we have a policy that's being led, which actually doesn't work in the big areas. No matter how many times the climate minister says they have a long-term and systematic policy, the policy does not work. Greenhouse gas emissions are rising. He took over a road sector where emissions were going down. Yesterday’s statistics from the SSB show that the road sector is once again experiencing an increase in its greenhouse gas emissions. I'm glad we have climate budgets. The working party is for that. That's why we've presented a table that we're actually encouraging people to go after – both parties, environmental movements and others. And it's emission cuts in the non-quota sector that meet our emission obligations by 2030. I believe, based on the uncertainty and inadequacy that the Minister for Climate Change gives in the Grand Duchy of Great Britain with regard to the consequences of the budget agreement, that he should have got his office to count on the consequences of the climate. Brief on some of the challenges: the Enova bet is far too weak to be able to put in place a zero-emission vehicle infrastructure that can fit the whole country. The 2025 requirement fades with what is now being done. There should have been a much harder bet on it. In the case of biofuels, decisions in 2020 and 2030 are very good, but there must be an obligation to do so if someone is to invest in developing sustainable biofuels in Norway. Those commitments and the clarity have not come. In the case of carbon capture, cats have come out of the bag during the budgetary procedure. Now there is only one plant the government parties and the support parties will implement. So my claim is that the budget agreement – and the government – leads the country in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1427	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to. The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1434	I was going to quit, but the last thing can't be uncontested. If there is something this budget agreement does, it is taking the right direction, both in terms of classical nature protection and climate policy. We've made some big decisions during this year. We have ratified the Paris Agreement, we have also received supplementary decisions in relation to it, we have an energy message that has set some objectives, not least for zero-emission vehicles and biofuels, up to 2030, and we now also have a strong climate law that will be adopted later, in addition to collective action and other things that are within the budget. Let's take a step towards 2030. Then I have to say that there is no one who says more, but does less than the Workers' Party. If there's something we've done in this period, it's a change of pace. And I have to say that I have experienced the Workers' Party in the past: you have been against whether it has been a seat tax, increases in fuel taxes, or it has been biofuels. You're going in offensively now, but it's opening an open door -- like it's just the bourgeois government that's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1444	Thanks to the previous speaker. Let me first say to those who have spoken about a controlled closure of Norway's largest and most important industry, which is financing so many of the things we have discussed today: what is actually being addressed by not launching a single new project on Norwegian pedestal, has nothing to do with controlled liquidation. It's about an uncontrolled winding-up and a lot of unemployment all over the country. It was the representative of Aasland who made me speak, because of his accusation that this government is doing nothing to facilitate continued value creation and not least employment in the Norwegian oil industry. Since the important investment in research, development and demonstration of new petroleum technologies, which both contribute to lower emissions from production on Norwegian soil and to the highest possible value creation based on our energy resources, has been completely flat for eight years under red-green governance, the majority of today has strengthened this work in all budgets compared to the red-green ones – as well this year. We have delivered on what we promised in the election campaign, what we promised in the Sundvolden Declaration: access to new land, which is absolutely essential for the industry to create values in the future as well. We recently sent out the TFO for the next year at the hearing yesterday. We have provided a stable and predictable framework that makes Norwegian pedestal attractive from an international competitive perspective. And not least, as I said in my original post, it's not like we're just turning on the development of renewable energy – which we need more in a low-carbon society. I'm not saying that it's just that the industry now beats the period under the red-green: we're expanding twice as much renewable energy today as the average in the last 25 years. What I am most responding to is that the Aasland representative is standing on this platform, pointing out that we – this government, this majority – are spending too little on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. He'd have to believe that, but the actual ratio is that at no time with the red-green majority in this hall was used more than 90 million. kr to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. In the last 12 months – and this is before today’s significant allocation of several hundred million kroner to the transport sector – Enova has allocated 800 million. kr. Under the red-greens, a maximum of 90 million was allocated through Transnova. kr. You could say that the government is doing too little. We do very, very much more than the case was when the red-green had the majority in this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1459	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1465	I promise to pick up the post for Vidar Helgesen instead of on my blog afterwards. I only have one minute, so I don't have time to do it here. He is part of a government that misses the climate targets and leaves behind cutting greenhouse gas emissions in order to achieve the targets that he has the opportunity to achieve in 2020, but instead sets new targets ten years ahead of time. That's when I challenge Left: One of the country's leading poker players in the 2000s said that when he played online poker, he always lightened up after who was the idiot around the table, because it was him that it was possible to make money on. But if it had been ten minutes without him finding out who the idiot was, he himself was. Well, left: It's almost four years. The wolves are massacred, there are free slips on scooter loops and purchase center expansion, the highways are rolled out, and the railway is built for lower speeds. Oil licences are granted at record speed, also in areas where the Left had agreed not to expand and greenhouse gas emissions are rising. The question is, who's the idiot?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1472	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1477	It may be time for those who are now in charge of the majority to begin to assess the Workers' Party from the time we actually live in. First of all, Elvesuen says that we're saying more and doing less. I would encourage the Elvesu to actually vote in favour of our draft budget. It had meant that more emissions had been cut by 2030 than by the proposal for which the Left vote. I mean definitely, and I'm going to say it in this Chamber too, that the emission reductions we have presented in our table are real and possible to achieve and implement based on our alternative state budget. It cuts emissions more than the left now chooses to vote for. And so: The Energy Communication did not contain any climate action – on the contrary. The climate measures that were included in the vote, which were finally reasonably acceptable, came, thanks to the Workers' Party's climate proposal of February.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1484	The representative, Tina Bru, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1490	You can't complain that it refers to what kind of results you delivered when you were actually in power, when you're in opposition today and moving on to your policy because you're just being pressured by your current position. Had it not been for the climate budgets that this government has provided and adopted together with our cooperation parties, neither would the Workers' Party's alternative budgets look as they do. It's not for believers. When the Workers' Party crashed, biogas plants were shut down. When the Workers' Party was overthrown, there was no green tax change in the transport sector, and there was no bet on CCS – at least not that was successful. So it's not for believers. It's probably nice to forget that you've been sitting and driving the country for eight years, but it actually has to be remembered when you use words like that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1497	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5-7 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1539	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be divided into two sections, so as to deal first with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Culture, Framework 3, and then with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Children, Gender and Knowledge, Framework 2. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, members of the government are given 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that parts 1 and 2 of the debate give rise to a replacement of lines of up to six lines of response by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1556	A hectic enquiry was made at the Committee's budgetary procedure this time. I think it was just as hectic and challenging for position as for opposition, and I would like to thank the Committee on Patience, Flexibility and Good Cooperation, which made us today have an attitude to treatment that came into place within three to four hectic days after the Financial Committee had agreed on frameworks and budgetary agreements. The 2017 budget is a good follow-up to the Solberg Government’s promise to target efforts in such a way that it triggers commitment, creativity, efforts by citizens and contributions from more than public. The government has done as they promised, namely to look at how the money we have politically available can be used in the best possible way. During this period more money has been spent in the field of culture than ever, even though some are trying to make it quite different. But the important thing is how we spend the money. Political leadership in the Ministry of Culture dares this period to do what too many before they dared not, namely to make priorities. These priorities allow for additional efforts and new solutions. The gift-enhancing scheme has been fully used since the introduction of the scheme by the government. New groups are still allowed to take part in the scheme, and new projects are constantly finding their funding in this interaction between private and public aid. Projects are being implemented faster and in full. There are many good aspects to this system that users are well pleased with. By now, the government is increasing its efforts to 51 million. together with private capital, it will contribute 256 million to museums, cultural life and festivals. kr in 2017. It is a significant contribution to Norwegian cultural life. The government budget for 2017 is a budget for work, activity and conversion. There is no doubt that in all areas there is a need for change in the form of new ways to meet new needs, to make use of the opportunities offered by new technologies, and by raising new generations with new giving and fresh eyes. It is precisely this priority of the cultural budget that clearly facilitates, stimulates and prioritises. Through this government's clear commitment to Talent Norway, the government, by going ahead and showing the way, has triggered more than 53 million. kr from other contributors. It's a formidable boost for talent development and recruitment. 12 talent development programmes have been established and 1,200 talent development sites have been established over four years. Many of these receive the help needed to start a professional career, develop talents at international level, and this is a success that promises Norway as a cultural nation. However, efforts need to be deployed in a number of areas, and the empowerment of cultural workers and the apparatus around them will also have a proper boost and access to competence through the initiative of Creative Norway. That's $70 million. kr has been re-prioritized to this initiative, which is distributed to the Council of Culture, Innovation Norway and not least to five regional environments with 2 million. to build the network and the competence of cultural workers in their regions. The establishment of the Office Creative Norway itself, which is to be a coordinating office for the development of creative cultural industries throughout the country, is also part of the government's active efforts to spread power and the desire to involve the whole country in new projects. The Office shall be established outside Oslo. Norway has a high international level of art production, but has not been good at exploiting the potential and potential value creation around it. Now we're going to do something about that. The artist tips are strengthened in the budget, and through the 2017 budget, the first contribution to the establishment of an artistic assistance scheme is in place. This is an arrangement for which an overall committee has been set up, and this Visual Art Practitioners scheme is enough of an effort to raise future national and international talents, this time in interaction with experienced artists. The artist's wages have not been lifted through previous cultural promises. It is therefore important that such a concrete and measurable measure is now established. Another exciting project realized through this budget is the establishment of an artist residence at Svalbard. This has also been made possible through close cooperation with private actors and local authorities at Svalbard. The artistic residence will strengthen the cultural and creative industry at Svalbard and contribute to artistic exchange both regionally, in the north and internationally. The initiative is well anchored both economically and professionally through the cooperation established. The museum sector is very active. Many tasks are solved with few funds and considerable efforts by associations of friends, volunteers and employees who contribute. However, many large and heavy increases are required, with a budget of 25 million. kr for museum facilities. Installations are being rehabilitated and new constructions are being realized. Permanent at the CODE in Bergen, graphic museum in Stavanger and, of course, the new national museum that rises at the Western Railway – it is important arenas for narrative and knowledge of the cultural heritage that is established under this government. The film sector has also left behind a very rich year. Good filmmakers, directors and not least top-class actors have given us experiences we forget late. The film incentive scheme that was introduced was not unexpectedly quickly used up. That means we've secured more international film production here in the country. In 2017, the scheme was strengthened by 10.8 million. kr, which will trigger additional volume of international film and series production in Norway. It is important to remember that this also strengthens the basis for Norwegian film workers through participation and exchange in an international competence environment. Sport is a strong growing activity, and Norwegian practitioners’ efforts have received a lot of attention in the last year as well. Good performance, medals and victories have a lot of interest and get good media coverage. However, the most important task in sport, as in other voluntary organisations, is the role they play in any community, where they create connection, inclusion and community. It was therefore great to experience that the Minister of Culture last Friday, when allocating a record high contribution from the surplus of gambling to sport, clearly prioritised the work that takes place in the wider world and among children and young people – just a great deal of everyday integration. Volunteering is a major resource that this government knows to appreciate, has simplified and supported everyday life. In 2016 as well, full VAT compensation was granted for the construction of sports facilities. It is impossible to say what is needed in 2017, but the basis has been laid by increasing compared to the year’s budget. I would also like to refer to the support for a single event, which in 2017 will gather large crowds of people at events of international interest, and which will be important and good marketers of Norway both as a sports nation and as a destination. X Games, Bike World Cup in Bergen and Homeless World Cup are very different events, but big and important events in each way for the different practitioners and audience groups. We're happy! The Committee's many and broad policy areas make it difficult to reach everything, and colleagues will therefore follow up on some of the areas I do not include in this article. Finally, I must say I am proud that the government in a tough budget with tough priorities once again keeps the cultural budget at a level that allows for continued commitment to talent development, creative investment and development. A large and large sector of high activity has received new contributions that trigger engagement and effort across the country. That gives a good feeling. I would also like to inform you that the Right-wing Group is recommended to support proposal No. 18, from the left, about looking at a change in the press stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1593	The cultural budget we are discussing today testifies to the fact that the government is still completely free of ambitions for the cultural field. The representative Harberg boasted that this budget is the cultural budget of the times. Well, it also bears witness to a government and a Right Party and a Advance Party that don't listen and don't recognize everyday life, because they don't see it that way. On the contrary, the total state budget has increased by over 200 billion. kr since this government took over. Everything gets a little bit more, but at least the culture gets. The share of the cultural budget in the state budget has not only stagnated but gone down, and we are now at the 2008 level. All institutions, most of them in the cultural budget, experience real cuts this year because the budget does not increase above wage and price increases. It means a lower cultural offer for many out there, it means greater and no less differences in people's cultural offerings in cities and countries and fewer opportunities to feed themselves as art and cultural workers. Yes, so boisterous was actually this cultural budget when it was presented, that even the Council of State escaped the country and prioritised the pope instead of presenting and boasting of its budget, and that after very many of us had had expectations. Because there was no way for the new Minister of Culture to invest in culture, to make it flourish around land and beach, and to use culture as an integration tool. It was up like a lion and down like a skin trap. We still don't see any sign of culture being prioritised by this government. When everyone gets real cut, it means less room for the production of good art and cultural experiences by the institutions in all counties and especially in the districts. So the cultural budget is bad news for those who work as artists and live by it. In addition, the government continues its derailment in cultural policy by weakening what is most important to people and most important to integration, if that is what you are concerned about, the universal, good arrangements that introduce art and culture to people, such as the environment. The cultural walking stick. The measures chosen are either schemes that create greater differences between cities and countries and institutions such as the gift-enhancing scheme, or schemes that will have little effect, such as, the cultural industry initiative, because there is no interest in feeding culture at the bottom. The Workers' Party has ambitious objectives for Culture-Norway – from voluntary cultural life with children who barely manage to keep their instruments properly, to the professional who maintains the highest quality, and everything we find between them. We miss a lot if no more are introduced to art and culture early. Therefore, the cultural school bag, the cultural walking stick, the cultural nesting package, the national cultural map of youth, the libraries as meeting places, or the fact that the museums sometimes have free entrances, are extremely important. Here the government goes in the wrong direction. They build thresholds where we want to build them down. For the Workers' Party, it is a clear priority to continue to strengthen the so-called cultural core wall and the universal arrangements that provide more access to culture and art, which allow more people to experience what they may not have known they would have, experiences that might open up a new world, create commitment and good memories. That's why we're using over 400 million. kr more than the government for culture, with a local profile and with an artistic economy of well over 70 million. kr that would really give a raise for these groups. The real cultural industry effort, if the government had been engaged in nurturing and creating work of culture, would have been to bet on and not downgrade the theatres, district operas, libraries, museums, orchestras, festivals and the regional film fund. It's to bet properly on culture, give room to create more good experiences, which allow more people to live from their artistic work. And that's what creates jobs of culture around the world. You can do that if you give the right priority. If you don't do this at the bottom, yes, then 70 million. kr for cultural activities, something that does not make sense. It's like decorating the pipe on the house as the ground wall crumbles up. My colleagues will come back to several of the details in the budget. I don't reach everything in 5 minutes, but I want to address the Labour Party's proposal and the proposal we have with the Christian People's Party, in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1612	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1619	Cultural policy shall contribute to enabling people to participate in and experience a diverse cultural life of high quality. A rich cultural life is best served by a cultural policy, the aim of which is a cultural life of greater freedom. Good cultural policy is based on the self-esteem and culture of the individual human being. Knowledge and experience of our common cultural heritage strengthen the sense of identity and belonging to a community of different communities. The government's cultural policy is based on a desire for a strong and independent cultural life, where a good tool has been the gift-enhancing scheme that was launched and launched in 2014 and has been a success, and which we now allocate 51 million. Add kr. The gift-enhancing system has stimulated private funding, private cooperation in several art and cultural fields, and even more money and cultural experiences. Media in Norway today has consisted of a range within the sector, where the NRK has been a central player and will probably remain so for many, many years to come. But the government has worked on a review of the NRK to look at their role in the future. It is clear that the NRK is a very important institution, both media policy and cultural policy. I believe it is important that the NRK, as a major player, also increases its share of external productions outside of Marienlyst in order to enhance the quality, which can be discussed, but at least also to strengthen an environment that does not belong only in Oslo or in Marienlyst. At the same time, it is important to limit the ability of the NRK to use its robust economy paid by the community to weaken the free press, and I point out that the government of the government platform aims to submit a notification to look at licensing and payment arrangements for the future. Not all media houses can call the government, call the department or call the Stortinget and say that now we need more money. Most media houses have restructured, they've looked at new solutions, new smart solutions, but they're in a tough time, which means they have to think completely differently. It may seem that competition can be tough for more people. So the Progress Party will vote on the government's original proposal of NOK 0, i.e. no increase in the NRK license. We will vote against the proposal here today, increasing by 30 kroner. The government has proposed to modernise media policy and tools through non-discrimination of added value independent of technological platforms. We believe it is crucial for the industry in the future to cooperate well and to have a platform-neutral media. It's worked. It shows that this policy works, and Media-Norway would probably have looked a lot tougher than what it does today, if you hadn't gotten to grips with it. We have an overall commitment in the field of culture. We believe that we should use the existing forces in the field of culture, such as volunteering, children's and youth organisations, the orchestras have a central role there, and the artistic assistant system, which has also been a success. I'll get back to it a little bit later. Corps and choirs stand strong in Norway, we know that cultural life all around Norway is drenched, and we know that it is not created in Oslo or in the Ministry of Culture or in the Council of Culture, but it is created throughout the country. Skills related to talent development, where the talents live in municipalities, can be a contributor and important for Norway. It has been a success, and they have also increased their budgets this year. We have worked on a review of the Cultural Council. The Progress Party has for many, many years said that culture is not created in Oslo or at the Council of Culture, but throughout the country, and we believe that it is right that the government now proposes that we move part of the Council of Culture out of Oslo to areas where one can see with other eyes, and which may be closer to culture. I believe the goal must be that cultural life becomes less dependent on the state. The leaders of cultural institutions also need to spend more time being creative, creating room for experience, reflection and insight – not only spend all their time convincing politicians that we should allocate more money, but actually be less navigable and more developing and creative in this area. The debate on self-employment for cultural institutions has been going on in Norwegian media for up to several years, where we can see that some institutions have up to 70 pst. self-earning. As in the rest of Europe, there is perhaps a goal we should look at. Whether it should be 70 pst. or what that percentage should be, I believe in any case that a debate and discussion within cultural life about increasing self-esteem is important. We know that self-employment is also regarded as ticket sales, arrangements, shops, cafes and restaurants. Of course, the state should facilitate an external cultural life, and we will continue to do so, so it is important that we have a good dialogue with cultural life also in the creative field. Sport Norway has delivered good results every year, and especially in winter sports. But today we can read in Norwegian media that it cracks, and that tough words are used such as corruption, arrogance, mafia activity, when Terje Håkonsen speaks out, and that is not the case. We also know that moms and dads who work hard every weekend, several nights a week, support the state council when we want to re-prioritize within the sport. Many people believe that the sport is now a little heavy, and that you do not reach the width and the talents of sports in the municipalities. So I think this government is on the moms and dads and the hockey cams when we say that the top heavy Ullevaal stadium, or the top heavy sports, should re-prioritize their funds and send this money out all over the country, where sports evolve, and where moms and dads do a good job. So I want to thank them for that and keep up the courage. We're going to get this together and give a different priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1648	Like the Right Party and the Advance Party, I'm happy with what we finally got. A lot could have been said about the process until agreement, but I will leave it in this round. Very many of the efforts we have made in the cultural budget are in line with the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, and of course we are pleased with that. Let me mention someone. The press support is important for a number of paper newspapers throughout the country, and therefore we were not satisfied when the government proposed to cut the press support once again. We proposed in our alternative budget both to correct the cut, and also to strengthen the scheme. In the budget agreement, we have managed to correct the cut of 10 million. kr – a cut that the government proposed at a time when the media really have major challenges. The objective of the broadcasting area is to maintain a good public broadcasting service. Therefore, it is also necessary to ensure predictable framework conditions for the NRK. The Christian People's Party therefore proposed to increase the NRK licence. I am very happy that those who agreed on the public broadcasting message are doing so now, and therefore the NRK licence is increased by 30 kroner. The artist survey has shown that there is a great need to improve the economy of artists. The involvement of artists with a number of other instruments and state schemes is very important to achieve this. The Christian People's Party therefore proposed to increase the rates of scholarships by increasing the funding by a total of 8 million. kr, and I am very pleased that we were able to get it through the budget negotiations. The aim of the Actor and Dance Alliance AS is to ensure the rights and revenues of the dancers and actors involved between external addition relationships and assignments, as well as to facilitate external employment and work for the construction of skills and knowledge of the conditions of performing arts. The effectiveness of the measure has been demonstrated to be very positive. We proposed to increase the appropriations by 8 million in our alternative budget. NOK and got through in the negotiations for 6 million. NOK to be able to hire even more actors and dancers, and we are very happy about that. The cultural budget consists of important, large national appropriations for schemes and institutions. However, I believe that the relatively small allocations for local measures are at least equally important. It is in the communities that we must facilitate the growth and flowering of culture. The consensus this time allowed for more appropriations for such measures, in line with what we in the Christian People's Party had proposed in our alternative budget. The Eastfold Opera has been underfunded for several years. So we're very happy that we're now increasing the allocation by 2 million. kr to correct this. The Christian People's Party has wanted to strengthen the dissemination work of a number of museums and institutions. We've now had an impact of 5 million. SEK for operating aid for the Museum of the Early Memory Association, SEK 6 million. kr to upgrade the Maihaugen scene and 1,2 mill. kr to Jewish museum in Oslo and Trondheim, just to mention some measures. It's not the big sums, but it means so infinite. Leveld Kunstnartun is a workplace where performers, cultural workers and art professionals can work for a shorter period of time. Now we got an average of 0.4 million. kr. – a very small sum, but so important to this place. The literature house in Skien – as opposed to the three other literature houses – has not received support from the state budget before. The difference is that they don't operate their own house. They rent the premises at the Ibsenhuset in Skien and arrange things with the People's Library. We proposed to grant 300,000 kroner in our budget to the House of Literature in Skien and we are very pleased that we have had a positive impact on it in the budget. These are, of course, priorities that we have had in our budget for which we have not been implemented. This applies, inter alia, to: starting materials for museum buildings in Skien. It's a consolidated museum building, the largest in the county, and maybe the only consolidated museum that doesn't have a full year's point of view – and this is in Ibsen's birthplace. I can promise the Minister of Culture that she will still be reminded of this, because this must be done. Nevertheless, I am pleased with the large and small appropriations we have received. It'll mean a lot too many. I bring this up with the proposal we have in this matter, and I would also like to inform you that the Christian People's Party will support proposal No. Eighteen from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1678	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1684	The Centre Party is not represented in the Family and Culture Committee during this period and therefore does not contain any comments that present the Centre Party’s priorities and policy in the cultural field. The central party's view on culture and volunteering is therefore primarily reflected in the comments we have made on the financial situation and the cultural chapter in our alternative budget. With my limited speaking time today, I'm not going to be complementary to the whole field we're dealing with, but I'm going to focus on a couple of areas related to the budget. We live in a time when the struggle for the news and access to the news, what is true and false, is being challenged. We've heard of several episodes of manufactured news. It's an episode from the United States where an armed man went into a pizza restaurant to supposedly release children from Hillary Clinton. It's a kind of extreme example of manufactured news, well-edged political conspiracy theories. However, it illustrates a very important point. When sensational news and manufactured news have become a market, it shows how dependent we are on the fact that there are serious news outlets online, paper and in the ether that we can actually trust. Subtle media where skilled journalists have integrity and trust is a security valve in our democracy. In previous debates, the Central Party has called for action from the government to ensure media pluralism. Unfortunately, the issue remains topical, not only because of external challenges arising from a failing media market, but also because the government's own policy seems to be a policy with a government in internal conflict with its own seas. This is bad news for a constantly changing media industry. We know that the state's agreement with TV 2 expires in the new year. The unexplained situation is naturally serious enough for all the affected. We also know that the NRK is still Norway’s main media business and public broadcasters – and unfortunately, it is most remarkable that when the budget is presented, the government chooses to propose that the licence to the NRK be frozen. If it had been effective, it would mean a new cut in the revenues of the NRK. These things happen in the same year that the majority of the population have made a settlement that states that the NRC will receive predictable funding, which will at least ensure the wage and price rise. The government's budget proposal, as it originally was, affects the NRC financially, combined with an unexplained situation for commercial public broadcasting in Norway, and is therefore taking place at a time when the government should have shown political power by protecting Norwegian content production and news dissemination. We're excited about what's coming from the government in this area in the future. In addition to the need to maintain media pluralism in this country, I would also like to stress that the Centre Party is very concerned with diversity in voluntary work. The centre party believes that there should be no tax on voluntary work. That is why we want to step up the appropriations for VAT compensation for voluntary organisations, so that teams and associations can have a greater share of the real VAT expenditure on goods and services reimbursed. We are also committed to ensuring the basic funding of organisations and distorting state support away from short-term project support and over to activity. It is important to create predictability and to ensure autonomy in the voluntary sector. The role of teams and associations in putting policy objectives into practice should not be left to the government of the voluntary sector and non-governmental organisations by forcing them to run for money, where we politicians choose to set the agenda. The centre party is disappointed that the government once again rejects the proposal to make VAT compensation for sports facilities over the framework. Once again, one chooses to gamble on a likely underfinancing of the 2017 budget. Therefore, in the Central Party's alternative budget proposal, we have once again proposed an increase in the scheme, so that everyone can be given security of support for their installations. There is reason to thank all the sports teams and associations around the country who ensure that sports facilities are built every year – artificial grass courts, ski resorts, leisure courses and handball halls – so that children and young people can play sports. In other words, where the public and the business community are automatically given the right to deduct VAT costs, the sport must live with uncertainty if they are to be reimbursed in full or only part of their VAT expenditure. Since the Centre Party is not represented in the Culture Committee, it is gratifying to note that the Workers' Party has promoted the old proposal of the Centre Party to convert the scheme into a regulatory regime. I would like to inform you that the Central Party will support the proposals No. 1-4, 5, 7 and 8 and own proposals and proposals Nos. Eighteen from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1719	The left is also not represented in the committee, so I'll see how much I'll take in five minutes. Some of the efforts that the government has put forward are very much in agreement with us. I would like us to have built up the bulkheads between something profitable and something not profitable and something honest and something not so honorable, because we know that culture is created in the breakup between that very thing. Then the Council of State must thank higher powers for the existence of the Left, and for increasing her pot for cultural exports by 14 million. kr from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, so that what you have ambitions about is actually exported. We must be very pleased that we have also received the proposal that rightholders should be able to receive support for the development of nutrition, also based on their rights, and not just to have a product that is tangible when developing it. We have many exports from Norway now based on rights and not just on things. So I'm really glad that the Left got a kick-off in order to strengthen the artistic economy in another budget, with artists' scholarships, and that we've finally set up an artistic assistant system, which I think will be important in the break-up between nutrition and culture, but also to bring more young people into the cultural field. Then I have to say that I can fully support everything that was said in the contributions of the Christian People's Party – the important thing to see that art and cultural policy is not just about the big grips, but very many of the small arrangements and places that should have the opportunity to evolve. So the Left is very happy that we have managed to raise the new Norwegian with a proper language package, which I think is important to implement. It's an important phase in the new Norway now. When we see that we are discussing the main languages of the West and different regional languages, I think it is good to raise the new one in a budget, as we have done. If you look at what is being done with regard to the artistic economy, what is being done with regard to the Frankfurt Book Fair, and what is being done with regard to the new Norway, there has been a very good amount of language in this budget at the end. What's most difficult about making budgetary settlements here on the Groeting on the cultural front is that it's impossible, from our point of view, to take up important construction projects. That's why I want to mention two that have a high priority at Left. I am very pleased that there is a broad comment attached to the new opera house in Kristiansund. I believe that the representative of Farstad will come back to it later in the debate. But this is an important cultural house to support under an enormous voluntary and professional environment that has a great potential for development, if we can get that project up and go. I am also pleased that the comments also mention that this is an important part of a possible commitment to development in this area — in terms of industrial policy and the challenges of unemployment in this area. The second is Saemien Sijte, who is one of two cultural buildings mentioned in the Left's Grand Election Program, and on which we have spent a lot of time. I hope now that the money we spent on the investigation actually leads to the realization of the project. I should have said a lot about archival law. We would like to archive the archival law in new shelves and find a new investigation into it, but I think we really needed a new cultural law, a common law for both archives, museums and libraries. So I'm going to spend 40 seconds on the press, which I should have used a whole article on. We're happy to get back the press support, and I'm really glad that we're now getting a majority for proposal No. 18, which I hereby also promote. The press and the media are under a great economic pressure for time. There are major changes, and it is important to have an active media policy from the Storting in order to ensure that developments move in the right direction. The reason why we have promoted the proposal we have made is that we see, for example, that. a large municipality that Oslo will soon no longer have a local authority. It's a democratic problem when you don't have any arenas to discuss policies and different solutions in such a big city as Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1748	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1753	What makes us a nation is not primarily our economy, our oil, our building -- it's our culture, what we are together, our community, our history, what binds us together, all the expressions. The most important task of Norwegian cultural policy is to bring cultural policy even further from the periphery it has too often been, to the core and centre of Norwegian policy, where it belongs to the home, as one of the major and important common tasks. In its alternative budget, SV has put forward a strong commitment to a promise for Norwegian culture and cultural policy over the years – a promise of content. A promise of content must also be followed by economics if something is to happen. We have proposed to launch a national library promise, where one should allow 1 billion. kr over five years – the first year 200 mill. kr. The Library is one of the few cultural services available in all Norwegian municipalities. They're meeting places, they're archives, they're knowledge centers, and they need a big boost. We propose a bet on the cultural sphere, for example: by reintroducing a cultural school, which was a major success, which gave many children around Norway access to cultural experiences. We also suggest strengthening the ordinary cultural sphere. We propose a commitment to artistic economy through a variety of measures, and in particular we suggest strengthening the large-scale institutions of art and culture, which in many ways are the mainstay of professional cultural life in Norway, as well as the voluntary. Then we propose a strengthening of the media policy around the building because maintaining and developing freedom of expression, but also what I would call an opinion culture, that is, what culture we have for opinions, will be a core task of Norwegian policy when it comes to developing our democracy in the future, such as, among other things. The representative Arnstad was in a good position here instead. What we can do is take care of and develop the particularly strong media situation we've had. We have a huge number of locals who create communities around the country, and we have big, heavy-quality newspapers and ether mediums, radio and television that have created communities, as well as the media that we have that are unusually strong. Few things strengthen democracy over time as the powerful media catch Norway has had. That's why we suggest increasing the NRK license and giving NRK more muscles to be it as more than anything is the medium that binds Norway together. And we suggest increasing the press support and introducing an innovation support, so that smaller local viewers can take the leap from paper to digital, using the model of what they are, among other things. has held in Denmark – a strengthening of the digital freedom of expression. Finally, on behalf of sports mothers and papers all over the country, who spend most of the time every weekend, with some exceptions, and very many of the evenings in the weekdays – I have, among other things. many representatives present here in the Chamber today, at such an event – I believe I will say the following: The sport lives in the best of health – believe me! Throughout the country, it is the most important leisure activity for children and young people. He creates public health, well-being, integration and much more throughout our country. And sport is not, as the representative Thomsen said, a mafia sport. He's the opposite: a thumbnail of Norway. Our top priority is in an international context at a very high level. The main reason for this is the systematic investment of children and young people over time, which pays off by the fact that many become large athletes later. But it requires us to do more than today when it comes to the expansion of facilities across the country. Many sports facilities are becoming more expensive if they are to maintain the quality we need. It requires that we do more to ensure that everyone gets involved, in order to avoid a class distinction in participation in sport. And then it requires more openness from Norwegian sports. But I think I know so much that moms and dads around are not just skeptical about it being closed, they're also skeptical about making political games out of sports. They like him to be out of politics and to be for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1774	I have great ambitions on behalf of Norwegian art and cultural life – ambitions that are greater than that they can only be measured in crowns and ears. I believe that cultural policy is about what is being created; that is what we need to look at. As Minister of Culture, I am so lucky to be allowed to travel all over the country and see the results of what is being created. I meet many skilled artists, established artists who have already gained recognition, and even more young talents who burn after reaching out with their art – with what they create. That is why we need to develop an artistic policy that will enable more people to live by art. It is then a paradox that what the artistic economics investigation showed us and pointed out was that the artists' revenues fell at the same time as the cultural budget was doubled and the global trade in art and cultural products increased dramatically. That is why this government shows a clear direction in the cultural budget. We're taking some action, especially on how more artists are going to reach larger markets to get more people who buy what they create, and get income back to the art production. That's why next year we're adding 70 million. kr to new measures to facilitate growth and development in creative industries. I hope it's a start. One of the highlights of the year was when I was in the Central a few weeks ago and experienced Jeaninne Masika Lucusa from TextLab and Talent Norway. She tangled the hall when she presented her own poems. She told me that she had never made it clear if it hadn't been for her being picked out as one of the talents through the Talent Norway program. She is being followed up and working closely with other established artists and others who want the same as her, so that she really should have the faith that she will reach out into the big world. Many young men and women like her are what Talent Norway is now betting on, together with private investors and sponsors, to enable them to realize their dreams. This is a commitment to public–private cooperation that gives Norwegian cultural life several legs to stand on. I'm very proud that we've got it done. This summer I also got the pleasure of travelling from project to project and seeing the results that the gift enhancement scheme gives us. Not everyone likes that arrangement. When I visited the war memory "The Horseman" in Kristiansand, it made a strong impression. We have an abundance of buildings, museums and churches in Norway where the walls tell history. Taking care of cultural heritage is important, whether in cooperation with private individuals or as this year, by means of the action package against increased unemployment. I'm glad that we prioritize it, but I'm also very happy to see that private funds help to strengthen cultural life. I think it is good that we have got in place, and I hope that it will continue to develop. Let me briefly say something about media policy, because it's a serious media situation we're up against. The media face tough migration requirements as a result of increased international competition and falling advertising revenue. In conversion times, we can't just point to old tools. The government’s introduction of VAT exemptions for electronic news media and platform neutral production support are instruments that are adapted to current challenges, but media policy must also be seen in context. This will contribute to making important decisions in the future that will have a major impact on the media landscape in which we live. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work, and I would particularly like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for improving this budget. That's a very good result. It's a good cultural budget, of which I'm proud, and which I think is going to give us many great experiences of the year to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1789	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1794	Let me first of all wish the Council of State a good improvement in the cold – and to some extent also signed. Erna Solberg stated before the 2013 elections: we agree on a clearer priority of volunteering. When the Solberg government took over, the Prime Minister stated that volunteering was to be one of the building blocks of government policy. Also newly appointed Minister of Culture Linda Hofstad Helleland was clear when she took over the key to the Ministry of Culture: I want to be Minister of Volunteering, she said. After the government’s draft budget was presented in the autumn, the following reactions came from the voluntary initiative itself: Completely unambitious, said LNU. The worst voluntary budget in many years, said Freewill Norway. A stomach spatter, said Norwegian Outdoor Life. – This is just a sample. How does the Council of State explain the misunderstanding between the stated ambitions and the devaluation we see in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1805	There is no down-priority of volunteering. On the contrary, we are continuing a very high proportion of volunteering. Freedom is what happens around the municipalities every day. Making it possible not to impose too much bureaucracy and reporting, and not to take from people the urge to make voluntary efforts, is one of the most important things we do. That's why I had a meeting with Freedom Norway, LNU and KS last week. We had a very nice conversation about how to further strengthen voluntary declarations, about which volunteering is very concerned, and which is a good deal that ensures good conditions for volunteering. We're going to keep doing that, and we're going to be even better to make sure that we don't put obstacles in the way of systems that don't let volunteer evolve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1810	It is good that the Council of State has nice conversations with the volunteer. We have also registered that the government has presented a voluntary declaration of its own, but that is only words. Financial obligations on the part of this Council of States — including simplification of voluntary activities — are not followed up. In May this year, Freedom Norway came with a report on the eleven demands they had made to the government on simplification. That state council will see here -- in green -- has followed up. Here you see nothing green, everything is on the ground resting with this council. We heard before the elections that Erna Solberg was clear that special priority should be given to the voluntary register, and would continue to do so. Now the Right has had the Minister of Culture for three years, and still the Voluntary Register is not used to simplify grant management. How satisfied is the government's executive capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1817	I can assure the representative that I am very satisfied with what the government is able to implement in a lot of areas – that we are taking the country in the right direction, that we are simplifying, and that we are improving the framework conditions for the voluntary sector every day. This government has increased the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations by 350 million. kr since 2013. That's 100 million. kr more than the objective of the scheme. It's the biggest arrangement of the Ministry of Culture's budget, but I see that there's still a great potential to simplify and make the volunteer register better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1824	The government has a new commitment in this budget that the Christian People's Party supports 100 percent, and that's Creative Norway. I think it is good that cultural entrepreneurship and cultural industries are being invested. But what I find difficult to see is that the investment in creative industries will benefit from being co-located with the Secretariat of the State Arts Scholarship, a scholarship scheme aimed at the artistic, not the commercial. I hear the word «power spread» being used about this. To me, it looks more like symbol politics. My question is, because I support the very creation of the new office: is there anything else you can rather move from central strokes and into this office than this small secretariat that is responsible for the artists' tips?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1830	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is supporting that initiative and is helping to facilitate a more sustainable cultural life. My predecessor ordered a report from the Cultural Council on what can be moved out of the capital to spread cultural power around the country. It was then pointed out that there was only the portfolio related to creative industry. So I've pointed out that the administration of the State's artist grant and the Audio and Image Fund can also be part of it, to try to gather synergies from the fact that more people sit together. I think it might be positive. However, I agree with the representative, Mr Becquerad, that this can certainly be an opportunity for us to look at other things as well. I know that the Christian People's Party is very concerned that we should have strong cultural clusters around the country, so I would like to welcome an enquiry from the Christian People's Party about how we can view this together with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1839	I'm going back to volunteering. There are many aspects of what we could have discussed, including the important point that the public should not govern non-governmental organisations in such a way that they are forced to run for short-term project funding instead of getting a clean activity support. Governments responded a little to this with VAT reimbursement, and there are several schemes, but let's look at the facilities for sports facilities. The Council of State said that this was now the largest arrangement in the Ministry of Culture's budget. Yes, it is possible, but the inequality in relation to the right of business and the public, an automatic right to deduct VAT expenditure, 100 pst, still exists. On the other hand, sport has to live with the uncertainty if it only refunds some of the VAT costs and if they have to spend the money to pay the rest. How can this inequality be defended?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1846	I agree with the representative Arnstad that VAT compensation is a very good arrangement, it is the largest arrangement in the Ministry of Culture's budget. In these days, a record number of organisations receive compensation for what is now happening and has started and built projects. Also, volunteering out there, and sports, says that this is a very important measure. The abbreviation has increased marginally – from 21.7 pst. in 2015 to 23.7 pst. in 2016. We've seen in the past that this has solved itself through the revision, and that you've got a full pot. I believe that this is still a good solution, and that is also why we are proposing it to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1851	The role of the media is very multifaceted. There are very different roles they have for democracy to function. I – who has been an Oslo politician for many years – must say that there is a strange situation we are in now, where there is hardly one medium to discuss developments in this city. There is hardly one single medium in which we can develop issues that are important for the development of the city and important developments. It shows a dimension that we usually do not discuss so much in the media, namely democracy and the whole public debate. It's not just digging, it's all about making a democracy work. There is an important role for the media. We are very pleased that we are clearly supported by everyone on proposal No. 18 today. But developing a media support system for the future that also ensures the local debate, so that it does not become as the representative Arnstad described it, and which I believe is very challenging today – does the Council of State see how it can be included in the selection investigation that is now coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1860	I have to say that I am pleased with the proposal from the Left, because there are few big business representatives who have such great challenges in creating a debate on their region as those elected from the capital. We – no, now I’m no longer a representative, so I can’t use it as an example – but I think there may be a need to consider the question of grants to city newspapers on a general basis, because it becomes a poorer capital without urban newspapers. I hope that the Media Diversity Committee will look at how to set up a more modern press support, which will ensure the local debate, and which will ensure Norwegian-produced content – that we will see it. Therefore, I look forward very much – and with excitement – to their presentation of their position, and how we can help set up a modern media support.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1867	I have noticed that one of the things that the Council of State and I are a few about, is that a field is given more money, in itself not necessarily doing better. It's the content of politics and how to do things that are important. But – it’s an important ‘but’ here, in which I guess the Council of State agrees – creating quality costs money. Since I noticed that she said that the budget had been better – there have been several funds for important things – I guess she agrees with that. I have noticed that over the last few years, part of the funds in the state budget that has gone to culture have gone down considerably. Too many purposes increase the use of money across society, but the part of the cake for culture is now significantly smaller than it was three years ago. My question is quite simply: does the Council of State think it would be good, a goal, whether we used something more of the social shock to culture, or does she think it's okay that something less of it goes to culture, as the trend has been?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1876	The representative of Solhell has been the Council of State. I expect that as a government council he was busy getting the most to his department and his portfolio. Of course, I am, too, but the sitting government has established a cultural policy with a new direction – and not as the red-green did, i.e. a 1 pst. calculation. There has been no target for us. It's been more important how we set up, so that we get a more sustainable art and cultural policy. Times change. The cultural field must also change. There has been a formidable increase in the field of culture. Unfortunately, we see that it hasn't made any major public visits. We have not had the effect that it has benefited the entire Norwegian people. I think that's a little too bad. That's why I think, OK, then we have to think a little bit differently. How are we going to enable the artists to get their art out, and get more audiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1883	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1888	Sitting government spends more money on the state budget than ever, and like the representative Solhjell, I'm worried about the share of culture, which is getting smaller and smaller. There was a sudden stop in the ambitions of the cultural effort of the current government, and we see increasing differences in being able to participate or experience cultural life in the country. With the risk of sounding like we've been hacking into the vinyl plate, hacking into the disc, I'm referring to the Culture School class, the cultural spaser stick and the cultural nesting package – all the schemes that make culture available in the country and that were cut off by the government. Norway still has a Minister of Culture who is more concerned with looking for money for culture anywhere than in its own budget. Let there be no doubt: the Workers' Party has great ambitions for cultural life. The cultural promise I, the cultural promise II and the cultural promise III clearly show the direction we wanted to take. We wanted to build a cultural nation, stone by stone, together with cultural life, we wanted to listen to people in the country and hear about their needs for the cultural life of the future. Nor is it a shock that we come up with a new cultural promise, a new framework for the local as well as for national cultural life. Through the previous cultural initiative, we have made a strong commitment to strengthening film environments in the regions, and we have strengthened the support mechanisms for Norwegian music, dance and theatre. Now we will invest even more in visual arts and crafts, increase cultural exchanges, facilitate good cultural arenas and strengthen district and regional operas. This will once again be seen in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, where we show a new direction and framework: cultural map for young people, big initiative at Youth Culture Meetings – UKM – new universal cultural schemes, such as the culture of kindergarten and high school, and the strengthening of the cultural school bag. We have listened to the need in Bergen, where Carte Blanche with today's government is soon standing on the street. We have visited and promised support for a new cultural house in Kristiansund, where they no longer have premises for their museums in the city, and where the library does not have facilities for people with disabilities. We want to make opera available throughout the country. Let's say once and for all: we believe that the greatest talent bet you can make for now, as far as professional practitioners are concerned, is through the U.D. support, which opens up new markets, whether you're an artist or a musician. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left saved this in next year's budget, once again. Festival-Norway is without predictable frames and hangs a bit in the loose air. All this and more say something about the alternative people in this country have when they're going to give their vote next year's election. I want to remind you of what the government said: we want to give culture freedom! I don't know any artists who've been asking for it. A little bit we've understood what it meant these three years, but that it's hit someone, at least it's safe. The free field was then horrified by the proposal in 2013 to cut off the grant schemes that they held a major action, even after the cuts were rescued by the Christian People's Party and the Left. The fear of what this government could think of, sat down like a stone in the stomach of many artists and organizations. The most vulnerable and vulnerable individual artists were to become even poorer, at least that was the plan of the government. But fortunately, the artists were saved, and one knows by whom. It makes it easy for me to point out the lack of ambition, but I wish it was more difficult. The tapes are cultural life in Norway. They had needed a predictable future for their important work. The first steps into art and culture are often through school and voluntary sector. May Norway get a new government in 2017, which is heavily committed to ensuring good and equivalent offers for everyone to practice or experience art and culture throughout the country! Sport is an important part of life for many. Sport enthusiasts and enthusiasts. It concerns social communities, good growing-up conditions for both children and young people and good health. In the Sports Communication of the Stoltenberg Government of 8 June 2012, there was a thorough review of trends because much had happened to people’s activity habits, to the commitment to volunteering and to population composition. The relationship between sport, self-organised physical activity and commercial interests was also changing. In its opinion on the state plant policy in the autumn, the Norwegian Sports Association has shown that only three–four new swimming pools, one ice hall, one curling hall and one artificial runway have been opened annually during the period 2011–2016. It might have been interesting to get the Council's comment on this during the debate. We'll find the surplus from Norwegian Typing again all around the country. If a person takes a ski trip or takes the kids to the swimming pool or to a football course, one can be quite so sure that the facility is there, because we have jointly arranged it. It is no wonder that the government has disturbed sport with its desire to allow private, commercial interests to escape through a gambling licensing system. What's strange, though, is how the Minister of Culture refers to profits from games almost as something she's fought through in the government's budgetary conferences. When the Council of State says she's giving more and more to sport, there are games she's talking about, money that the sports get because we deliver the lottery ticket, buy Flax tickets and play online casinos through Norwegian Typing and not through the commercial gaming companies the Council of State is considering wishing to welcome in Norway. The gambling industry is one of the largest businesses in Europe. We see big money and interests through illegal TV advertising and engagement from lobbying betting companies. Last year a number of organisations contacted Stortinget to ensure a responsible gambling policy. The Red Cross, the Cancer Association, Actis and the Norwegian Sports Association were among them. The message was clear: limit the risk of gambling problems and take care of the exclusive model, do not let go of international gambling companies! The choice should be simple when the question is: Should the profit from gambling go to activities for children and young people in Utsira or to commercial companies in Malta? But all of this has not led to the blackmailing of the government's very bad idea. It has been and stands a real battle over the future game policy. Even in the case of installations, it seems that the government has specialized in creating uncertainty. In a letter to its municipalities in June of this year, Hofstad Helleland reports that the provisions on grants to facilities for sport and physical activity may be amended from 2017. Governments have refused to ensure full VAT compensation for installations as a regulated scheme and the VAT compensation of organisations is becoming weaker. In addition, the government does not grant one penny of the State budget to installations, despite the fact that the follow-up is large, and so large and demanding for sports that some municipalities are now raising loans to help the sports teams operate what they want – namely activity – and to do so without increasing the training fees so much that families are excluded from the community in sport. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we are adding both what is needed to ensure full VAT compensation, and 200 million. NOK to take back some of the delay. This year's Christmas present from the government is, as in previous years, cut to its business. Plastics on the wound, in years as in previous years, are fine words – and just that. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we support proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1924	A few years ago, one could sit by the computer and google the two words ‘media’ and ‘crisis’. The search results were then largely linked to more, or often less, serious consultants, who learned away more or – often – less good ways of dealing with crises in their own business. And then the "crisis" was understood to have ended up in the media's searchlight. Today we get completely different search results. The crisis is in the media houses, and few consultants or others have a quick fix. The image is complex. On the one hand, we have the prophets of doom, who say that it is just before both democracy and freedom of expression is a story, on the other hand, the optimists, who point out that there has never been so much diversity and so much innovation. Both parts are worth listening to. Income from both subscriptions and advertisements is strongly challenged by the traditional editor-directed media houses. At the same time, the boundaries between the different media platforms are cleared and the innovation rate is at its highest both inside and outside media houses. There has been no lack of good journalism in recent years. Things are excavated and presented in the best possible way on all conceivable platforms. The analysis and debate are best conducted. I believe that the diversity offered today is at its most diverse – no matter what time you measure it against. The competition for your and my eyes and ears is keen, but it is also global. And that's the core of the challenge. Norway is unique. Our language, Norwegian, is unique, but it is also unique. The market for Norwegian-produced content in Norwegian is small bone. It is estimated that 1.5 billion people understand English. It's a little over 3 per million of those who also understand Norwegian. Then we quickly understand where the large cash flows are going. One challenge is also that many of us are unable to fully understand how fast it is now. We're hanging out in a traditional thinking, where the morning newspaper with the coffee cup, Dagsrevyen kl. 19 and radio news every whole hour is still some of the navigation points in our everyday lives. Fortunately, many content producers have left this way of thinking for the longest time. The boundaries between the media are being erased. Several report that they are starting to find interesting income flows in the new media reality, and that's good. However, the future success of the media cannot be measured by whether Schibsted's or Amedia's bottom line has black numbers, because it is the offer to you and to me – quality journalism, digging, analytical, revealing and entertaining – which is important, and which is made clear whether democracy and freedom of expression have a good track record. During this magnification period, important steps have been taken, but we are far from in terms of targets. Platform-neutral VAT, predictability of NRKs and conversion to digital radio distribution are important elements to ensure diversity and stability. Furthermore, I am pleased that we are now working on extending the VAT exemption to all digital journalism. But there's still reason to think carefully about it. We want neutral mechanisms to ensure the production of quality journalism. We want arrangements as fences for freedom of expression as the foundation of democracy. But what is quality, and what is important journalism? That is also why we look forward to the media diversity committee report for the spring, where several of these threads are to be linked. In addition, we have two messages right around the corner, notification of commercial public broadcasting and notification of future funding by the NRK, and all of this is related. There will be no less exciting debates and less political work in the media field in the future. Once again, I want to remind you that we have to think in principle and neutrally. The concepts of television, radio, newspapers and networks merge. A few years ago, VG was a paper newspaper. Today, VG is a TV channel, an online TV, a forum, a club, a paper newspaper, a debate venue, a brand, a content provider – yes, a wide range of terms fit. What VG is in a few years, we don't know, we don't even know if VG is in a few years. But that you and I want Norwegian content with high quality, Norwegian content that reveals, analyses, criticises and comments, we know. Our task is to facilitate it. We're going to spend about 8 billion dollars. kr in support of Norwegian media today. We're not going to use less in the future. But we have to spend the money differently. We continue to doubt old solutions designed for old business models. If we were to start again with eight billion fresh to ensure quality journalism in Norway, I'm sure we wouldn't have started with distribution grants for paper newspapers, as an example. In a changing media world, it is important that we see it all together: framework conditions, funding, diversity, language, cultural dissemination, news dissemination, debate and democratic development. Right wants to meet these challenges with the ambition to be in the front instead of nagging after. The most important thing we can do in the modern media policy of the future is to continue contributing to change and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1952	A little comment on the article by Kårstein Eidem Løvås just about the situation of the media. Which exists in a few years' time, we know little about, but with the chaos of the harvest, and in particular with a recently mentioned afterpaid case, at least the political parties in this house have made earnest efforts to make sure that the media has something to write about. It is also a contribution to diversity. This is the last budget debate we are discussing in the Family and Culture Committee during this big period, and there may be reason to look at what the picture looks like after three years with the Right and the Advance Party in government. For Norway as a society, the following can be summarised: higher unemployment, increased disparities and reduced opportunities. In the cultural field, too, there are now trends in fragmentation and in increasing differences. We see a very demanding political landscape in Europe and in the world community, including: increased unemployment, cuts in social benefits, low wage trends for the middle class, a series of developments that create a bottom of distrust, a high distance between the population and, above all, a bottom of populism. There is just a lot of this also about cultural policy. How do we build a society of cohesion and trust, with a short distance between us – how do we build good communities from the bottom of it? For the Workers' Party, it is an important objective of cultural policy that it contributes to reducing the differences between peoples, ensuring that everyone throughout the country has the opportunity, first of all, to experience high-quality culture, but also to have the opportunity to express themselves through cultural expressions, which help to increase freedom, reduce differences and enable people to live good lives. An important element of it is voluntary policy. There we see that despite beautiful promises before the elections, the ambitions of this government have been significantly weakened in areas by region. The foundation support has not lifted a finger from the government to strengthen it. We are pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have pushed for an increase – we have asked for it for a long time and put forward proposals for an increase of 10 million. kr in our alternative budget – but there is no initiative by the government in this area. The government is weakening the international youth work, which proposes an increase to the Workers' Party. They have a policy that helps the reduction of VAT compensation to continue to increase — year by year — and this year it is 23.7 p.m. The Labour Party proposes an increase of 50 million. kr to reduce the curtailment. They have put the volunteer centres into the community framework, which means that the future of volunteer centres is highly uncertain. The working party wants to earmark the resources and sets of 171 million. kr to it. In the case of Freefonds, the government shifts everything on to the gambling funds and therefore denies the responsibility they have. We also want to strengthen this commitment to the State budget. Despite the fact that, after the rejection of the OL request, there were high expectations that the government would give a boost in the construction situation in Norway, the government has not followed it up. The Workers' Party is proposing 200 million. NOK to resume the delay. In the case of VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities, the government has not done anything to the world. That's what we're proposing, $30 million. kr and the much-discussed proposal for a system of rules. Due to the large delays, municipalities have such things as: Levanger and Verdal have to put in place a municipal firefighting system for sports facilities, a very good measure, which ensures predictability of the sports laws. But there's a job the municipalities have to do, all the time the government doesn't do their job. I come to the media policy in a later article. I just want to make it clear that the Workers' Party wants to vote against VII in the vote, which is about the power to sell shares in the Film Park AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1977	It's noted. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1985	When the Stoltenberg government presented its third cultural promise before the 2013 elections, the goal was to build on what was called the core wall of culture. The cultural cooperation between state, county and local authorities should be continued and strengthened to ensure good cultural experiences throughout the country. With the government change in the autumn of 2013, the cultural lift was shattered. We got a government that didn't bet specifically on cultural mediation. Rather, the government has helped to dismantle several of the arrangements that have brought culture out to the people. The cultural nesting package, i.e. the dissemination of culture in the workplace, is gone, and the cultural spaserstock has disappeared into the county framework grants. There it lies hidden, and then it may be natural for a person my age to try to find it again. The cultural walking stick was – and here there is every reason to mention the action in the past – an important initiative to disseminate cultural experiences to older people, i.e. a group that does not have a particularly good access to cultural services and experiences. The government tried to phase out the offer in 2015, but was unable to bring the majority of them back at the time. Instead, the scheme was introduced into the framework grant of the county municipalities. Today it is not possible to determine whether or to what extent the cultural spaserstock still exists. However, we can conclude that a very important and requested cultural offer is significantly reduced. If the Minister of Culture contacts his colleague in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, I would assume that she will know that we have lost an offer of great importance to public health. The cultural provision of the elderly is important, not just for cultural reasons themselves, but because such experiences are important contributions to the fight against an increasingly widespread public disease, namely solitude. The Workers' Party will therefore reintroduce the cultural spaserstock as it was, and has allocated funds to this in its alternative budget. Similarly, we want to strengthen the cultural school bag. Just as the cultural walking stick became popular in the elderly, the cultural school bag is a very popular measure in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e1996	It is gratifying that a Joint Committee has made a positive remark for a new opera and culture house in Kristiansund. When the committee clearly states that the rapid realization of the plans for a new opera and culture house in Kristiansund will be of great importance and will have major ring-effects for the North Moravia and the rest of the Moors and Romesdal, I assume that it means a rapid realization. This is primarily important for the cultural and social life of the city and the region, but, as the Committee points out, the construction of new opera and cultural houses will also have a significant impact in other ways, by contributing to extensive activity during the construction period and enabling the creation of new cultural workplaces in a city and in an area of the country particularly severely affected by the economic crisis in petroleum-based industries. I also notice that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have a good additional comment. There is a real need to bet on opera and cultural houses in Kristiansund, a house to house the opera and the Nordmøre Museum, as well as other cultural activities. Realisation of such a project — such a house — is necessary in order to achieve the desired further development of the opera in Kristiansund, an opera with a fixed budget space, which has the status of resource and competence centres for district operations. The city’s opera is the result of Norway’s oldest opera traditions, traced back to 1805, and has since 1928 produced and set up a lot of operas, operas, ballets and dance performances. Better facilities are now required. In addition to the opera, the Nordmøre Museum also has a keen need for new premises, and it is particularly positive that the museum and the opera have found each other in the house issue, both in order to achieve synergies between the companies and for the audience and users of offers in such a house. A real boost to cultural life throughout the region will be this. For me and the Left, this is a very important matter. Therefore, the Left proposed 25 million in its alternative budget for 2017. kr to an opera- and cultural house in Kristiansund. It is, of course, our primary wish and the basis for the negotiations on a budgetary agreement. However, the outcome of the negotiations and the examination within the Committee, where an overall committee agrees, is a long step towards realization. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2013	In connection with the fall of the Storting debated the defence message, it was said that ‘a country without culture is nothing to defend’. I thought we should think about that today. Now, the music of Defense went well, but I agree with what many people have said before me here today, especially with the cultural walking stick and music therapy, both of which are in line with the boundaries between culture and health, both when it comes to prevention and treatment, so I fully support it. What I was going to talk about was archival politics, the collective memory of society. This Committee will examine a matter in April, a proposal from the Central Party for the development and strengthening of the eight regional state archives. In the response of the Spring Council of State, it was stated that the Council of State will ‘in the 2017 budget proposal inform the Government of the state of the organisation of the Swedish Archives’. I cannot see that this status is in the budget. It's a very brief review, but Stortinget doesn't get any insight into the organization of the Archives, as promised. What is happening in the Archives is almost identical to what was proposed last year. The exception is that the State Archives retain their title and that the State Archives retain the name of their building. State Council Hofstad Helleland said in the Stortinget in April about the reorganisation: ‘The assumption is that the state archives should be preserved and specialised by transferring national tasks from the National Archives.’ ‘We move tasks from Oslo, into the districts.’ However, the situation is that several public archives have not been given responsibility for national tasks. The majority of those added do not have the state archivist as leader; there have not been several years of regional work. On the contrary, there has been a reduction in annual work in state archives of 23 years, from 2014 to 2016. So we have a situation with a state archiver who is not responsible for human resources, who is not responsible for the national work, despite the fact that the Council of State says he will be the leader of the State Archives. We want a better follow-up of archival policy and government archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2031	It is an objective to give the entire population equal access to high-quality art and culture. Many municipalities have therefore built cultural buildings, and many have plans to build such buildings. It is a challenge to strike a good balance between what is to be used on the buildings themselves and what should be applied to the contents of the buildings. But it's also a challenge to get the community's cultural resources to be used throughout the country and to cover all the different artistic and cultural expressions. For art has its own ability to touch and mobilise its own resources and creativity, and therefore we need a conscious art and cultural policy. We are proud of our capital and believe that it will also house central construction, but in recent years very many buildings have been built in Oslo, and there are plans for many new, large projects. It is important that we are able to produce the diversity of voices and different artistic expressions and the creativity that exists throughout the country. Carte Blanche is Norway’s national company for contemporary dance. They work with Norwegian and international choreographers, and they have dancers from Norway and the rest of the world. Carte Blanche has an exciting and special repertoire of high quality and has set out to be a pioneer in the innovation and development of social dance in Norway and abroad. They tour annually in Norway and internationally. The state owns 70 pst. by Carte Blanche. Carte Blanche was established in Bergen in 1989 and is without practice facilities from 2019. The municipality of Bergen and the county of Hordaland have been committed to the realization of new premises in the old Central Bath. It was a good dialogue with the former Minister of Culture. The current Minister of Culture is either on a pope's visit or on a hike – she is certainly not present and listens to representatives from Hordaland. It's worrying, because it's the state's responsibility to make sure that we get good construction across the country, and when Carte Blanche is one of the few national institutions outside Oslo, you might want to be especially engaged and take responsibility for making sure they get suitable premises. There has been a broad support from and an involvement in the whole of Bergen City Government, in the Hordaland County Municipality, and not least in the City Council, which consists of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party. So what's going to happen next with regard to the Central Bath? We see that our own representatives in the Culture Committee have taken responsibility, but we miss that our dear Minister of Culture might visit Carte Blanche and see what's going on, and have a good dialogue with one of the few national institutions located outside Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2047	Some structural changes have been proposed in this budget that I am concerned about. I want to spend some time speaking on one of them, and that's to the extent that was the subject of my reply to the Minister of Culture. We are in favour of the proposal for the creation of a new body of creative industries, but have noted with wonder the proposal to move the Secretariat of the State Arts Grant and co-locate this with the creative industries office. The development of cultural industries requires other and more professional instruments and competences than artistic development through the grant scheme. I therefore believe that the proposal to add the Secretariat of the State Artist Grant to this new body is unfortunate. The grant scheme has a completely different device from a focus on cultural entrepreneurship and cultural industries. It is therefore difficult to see that the investment in creative industries will have advantages of being co-located with the Secretariat of the State Arts Grant. I believe it is essential to maintain and further develop a strong professional environment within the Council of Culture in terms of the management and knowledge of the field of art. The Cultural Council has a small staff with a high level of art and cultural competence, and it is important that the State Arts Scholarship Secretariat is closely anchored in this subject environment. Splitting this small trade union environment will not strengthen Norwegian art and cultural policy. I also think it is important to have dialogue between the Secretariat and the Committee and close cooperation with the grant committees and the artists' organisations, including. to ensure that the system is managed in accordance with law, regulation or administrative provisions. The members of the grant committee come from all over the country and have their meetings in Oslo, where the respective artists' organisations are located. The relocation of the Secretariat will weaken the possibility of this close and necessary cooperation. I would therefore encourage the Minister of Culture to assess whether there are other functions or organisations or environments that might be more appropriate to co-locate in a new creative industry office. And given the openness shown by the Minister of Culture in his reply to my reply, of course, the Christian People's Party is going to be involved in making suggestions for other environments that we might rather move out, and into this office that is going to work on creative business development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2060	The cold war covered the entire globe, and it put North Norway on the map as one of the world's central security policy regions. It put its deep emphasis on social development, it continues to shape us and will continue to shape the development of the northern regions for many years. Northern Norway, along with North-West Russia, was one of the most militarized regions in the world. In order to make use of modern weapons and build a credible defence against any Soviet invasion, NATO decided to grant huge sums of money for the construction of aerodromes, port facilities, fortifications, roads, etc. in all of North Norway. In 1951, NATO granted 330 million. kr for the construction of seven aerodromes. In 1952 there was 120 million. kr granted alone for the construction of the airport at Andøya. These military investments transformed the entire Nordic community. Fishermen landed and became wage-earners. The housing patterns were changed when people streamed to the new military center looking for work. New career opportunities arose, both military and civilian. American culture took its toll. From being a problem area for Norwegian authorities at the end of the 1940s, with poverty, chronic unemployment, an old-fashioned, pre-modern economic structure and relocation, North Norway was slowly but surely equated with South Norway. If you're going to understand the modern North Norway, you have to understand it's called the war. Therefore, the Norwegian Aviation Museum has taken the initiative to document and disseminate this part of our history. In 2013, money was put into a project to look at how to do it. The project has been a recurrence in this room. I've taken it up repeatedly, with different ministers of culture. Most recently, I raised it in a question to the current State Council of Greece, and she promised this year in the answer to Document No. 15:438 for 2015–2016 that she would come back to the matter in the usual way, in budgetary context. I'm very disappointed. The matter is not mentioned in the budget, despite the fact that an overall committee has previously referred to its importance. Three years have passed since money was put into the project to find out how to do this. If I had not known better, I would suspect the government to train the case. The project will document a small mediated epoch in Norwegian history. And it's urgent. It's urgent because the time witnesses are about to die out, they're falling off because of old age. I hope it's not a deliberate training, but that it's a work accident. I therefore welcome the Minister of Culture's answer to why she has not followed up the matter as she promised in the answer to the question, and how she will now come back and implement this project, which is important to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2080	It's good to see that the Minister of Culture found his place back. So far in the debate it seems that she has not listened carefully to what has been said from this pulpit, and it is time to point it out. It's disturbing with both a minister and representatives who are loudly talking behind our backs. What I want to do is, now we're approaching the turn of the year. The film deal has not been followed up so far, and I want to show that the film festivals – 100 film festivals, in large and small – have no idea what is going on in 2017. What we know is that the Norwegian Film Institute, which is to distribute the funds, has been cut off. There is reason to believe that it is not added to the predictability that the film conciliation points out that the film festivals should have. There is reason to believe that cinema is not strengthened by the role of the film festivals, and there is reason to believe that we do not get the wanted, transparent way of awarding the film festivals grants. In a few weeks – in a few weeks – Tromsø will open the International Film Festival. They have no idea what the state and government support them with. How will the Minister of Culture follow the film deal at Stortinget? It would have been natural that she had a quick answer to. I also remind you that I have asked questions, and that there are deadlines for giving written feedback on them. But as that answer hasn't come, I'm using the opportunity today. It is urgent for Tromsø and it is urgent for the film festivals in Norway to know what they are getting in subsidies, and whether the film settlements of Stortinget are being followed up. If not, it will be serious for their situation in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2090	I think the debate today shows that the representatives of the government parties, and the Council of State, are not listening. They're wearing sky notes. They're wearing sky posters for what reality really looks like out there to people. One boasts of a cultural effort – while a collective cultural life warns against the budget being so poor that it gives cuts that will go beyond the cultural offer to people throughout the country. We see representatives of the government parties boasting of a slight increase in the artist tips. It is thanks to the Christian People's Party and the Left, after the Right Party and the Advance Party have not just prioritised it for three years – they have actually actively countered the necessary elements of an artistic economic reform. The Council of State spoke of the Enger Committee pointing to the importance of doing something for artists in terms of wages. There's a majority in this hall to do. Had it not been for the Right Party and the Advance Party to actively oppose and stop it through the budgetary agreements, we would have been on the road to a genuine artistic economic reform with a real economic boost. So the government parties are left with a lot of empty talk that artists have to become entrepreneurs and learn to sell better. Frankly, wake up! If there's someone who's busy selling, and who's working his life off and on more legs financially, it's the artists. State councils later, as if the move of the Audio and Video Fund and the artists' tips were a good step forward. It's completely wrong. A collective art and cultural environment is against it. In the debate, it seems that the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right have simply forgotten – or displaced – the budget originally presented by the government in the autumn. The need for increased media pluralism is so well discussed, while the fourth year in a row has actually been proposed, and presented, large, juicy cuts in the press support. Governments highlighted the importance of developing talents. Yes, if the government were really concerned about it, they would strengthen the real talent factories: the cultural school, the cultural school bag – the institutions that allow the children to try. There will be no more, but fewer, opportunities to cultivate talents under this government, for the differences between those who use culture and those who cannot afford it are increasing. Finally, I just want to say that the Council of State has to stop using the point that content is more important than money. Culture costs, and it's just a government that can't afford to stick to a good cultural budget that doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2105	I have to say that this budget debate has been relatively predictable, and the opinions and positions are known after we have had similar debates throughout the period and in other matters. However, I do not stop to be surprised at any statements. It is strange to hear representatives from the Workers' Party telling with great seriousness that everything that was the result of negotiations between the government and the cooperation parties, it is the cooperation parties that stand for, and that everything that was not of, it is the government that stands for. So we're four parties that negotiate, and this, of course, knows the former government party Work Party very well. It was just that it happened in closed rooms, namely between the government parties of a majority government, before it came to the Storting. So what's in the final statement is that there are four parties that agree, and what's not there is four parties that have not been agreed on. That's reality, and that's how it works. Then I register that the Workers' Party is still talking about more money as the only charity. Yes, we are very aware that more money is also an important tool, but when the Workers' Party constantly refers to the Cultural Promise 1 and 2 and for example. The artistic economy, is it tempting to ask: How did the artistic economy go after those cultural promises? It's an exciting question to get answers to, because the reality is that the artist's pay went down. How'd it go about culture after the two promises? No, it didn't. It didn't happen. Then that's good there's other ways to think about it. I hear the representative Trettebergstien reject entrepreneurship in cultural life that something nonsense one should not engage in. Yes, we have faith in it, and we feel that it works, and we feel that it triggers new ways of doing things. That's why we're betting on it. We hear that the festivals do not have predictability because of this government. They have had no predictability other than the budget from year to year before. Now a festival arrangement has been ordered where the Stortinget has clearly ordered a system of greater predictability so that they can plan in another way, and we are quite clear in the budgetary comments that we are impatient to put that system in place. That is the reality of this government and the cooperation we have with the other two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2115	It's interesting to hear the committee leader Svein Harberg talk as if everything had happened before in closed rooms and everything is now happening in full transparency. I remember, and I think more people remember that under the red-green government there were quite lively discussions in the media about how to deal with the matter, and we have also read in this budgetary process that parliamentary leaders were secretly picked up at secret address, and that there were discussions that were to be kept far away from the media's searchlight. So here I think maybe Harberg went a little bit far. I promised to come back to media policy. A diverse and differentiated press is a prerequisite for transparency, and for all citizens to be able to learn about what is happening, make their own choices for the future and participate in the public conversation. At the same time, as many have pointed out, the media are facing considerable challenges, which can put pressure on journalism and reduce diversity. Any other industry that had gone through a similar crisis would be confronted with massive packages of measures – perhaps not from this government, but at least from governments we have seen in the past. But what this government is facing is further cut, further action that will make the situation more difficult. This led, among other things, to The Norwegian Journalist team wrote the following in its consultation input to the budget: ‘Unfortunately, important parts of media policy are being outsourced to the Media Diversity Committee. To the extent that the Council of State takes active action, the negatives that cut the press support and freeze the NRK licence are.’ We're dealing with a cultural minister who's abdicated in media policy. Not a single measure to strengthen Norwegian media and journalism has come from the current Minister of Culture. All that is referred to is either from the former Minister of Culture, actions that we, the Red-Green Government, carried out, or actions that the government has been pressured into either by the opposition or by the cooperative parties. The Labour Party has also promoted a number of proposals in this budget: the extension of the VAT exemption, the increase in the production grant, innovation support to help the media in the transition to digital, increased support for the digitisation of local radio, the strengthening of Sami newspapers, the improvement of minority language media offers and predictability of the NRK, as provided for in the agreement and the agreement on general broadcasting. This debate clearly shows that there are no ambitions on behalf of the cultural policy of this government, from the government parties, and I find that sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2129	Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2136	The government continues to read the Enger selection that found reading the Bible. It is true that some institutions did not experience an increase in the number of audiences, but that cultural promises made cultural life grow and become more foreign throughout the country, there is no doubt about it. But it should also be said that it was the red-greens who put down the Enger Committee, because we were in no way finished building cultural policy when we had to leave the government offices. It is true that the artist's wages have not evolved as wages have grown elsewhere in society. We would do something about that, and we still have that. In our alternative budgets over the last three years, we have followed up the Enger Committee, which we put down and asked for. We have pointed out a direction that responds to the needs of cultural life. This government is doing the opposite. You don't follow up on the Enger Committee, you don't care about doing anything for the artist economy. I want to say that this government represents three lost years in this way for cultural life, but fortunately we have the chance to change direction to the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2146	No more have asked for the word to be used for area 3. Then that part of the debate is over, and we're going to go to Box 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2151	One of the biggest downhills for this government must be the discrepancy between the child haillifts we heard in the election campaign, and what we have actually delivered. It started quite fresh in 2013 with a cut in the nursery budget and has then been followed up by a passive line. After all, the Prime Minister has even said this: we are betting in school, we are betting less on kindergarten, she said when she commented on the first budget the government presented, and also showed clearly there that the Right has not realized that early efforts are starting in kindergarten. It is no wonder that in winter there was a children's garden riot against the government's attempt to introduce more testing and measurement in kindergartens, as the government actually managed to provide a big message of quality in kindergartens that would not lead to more quality in kindergartens. The message overflowed with the fact that the prime quality factor in the nursery is more staff with the right skills — and after the majority of this hall had twice asked the government to introduce a standard of living and to present a concrete plan on how to achieve it. So the government didn't listen. Half a year after the nursery uprising, the budget came, in the same familiar style as the three previous ones: not a trace of any nursery bet, neither more places nor more quality. Employees are not mentioned in a word. The request from Stortinget for a specific plan for the implementation of the crew standard has also been forgotten. Instead, it is now time to send a proposal for consultation to spring. Talk about not listening. Luckily, the draft budget to the government did not come up the stairs on the river bank even before it was slaughtered and before the cooperation parties the Left and Christian People's Party, fortunately, broke it. Fortunately, they got money in place for increased staffing, and I want to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for that. For the queues are growing under this government, the maximum price has increased, and the quality promise has all been waiting for it to fail. In kindergarten policy, the government and the Workers' Party separate teams. We have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We need to build up spaces because the queues in some places are long, and we need to bet on quality – through just one standard for several employees with the right skills, quality work in kindergartens and the ability to set the same requirements for the private kindergartens as for the public. Here, too, the government is failing. Private and municipal kindergartens have been treated equally financially, but they have not made it possible to make demands on quality, content and, for example, on quality. private opening hours. It has implications for the ability to determine what taxpayers' money is going to do. The government, in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has been pressurised to set aside 172 million. kr to more kindergarten teachers, but how are they to ensure that the money goes for the purpose, including in private kindergartens? We in the Workers' Party will, once again in the position of it, really treat private and municipal kindergartens in a non-discriminatory way, both economically and in terms of quality. It's about having control. We will extend the right to children's playground so that the November and December children will also be offered space when they reach the age of one year. We've added 200 million. kr to get into our alternative budget. The government parties do not add a single crown to a single new place in the budget. We're tired of waiting to get a crew standard in our kindergartens. We're adding almost 200 million. to start the process of stepping up towards a multi-employer adult density standard with relevant childhood education. It is amazing that this year you choose to increase the cash support so that it is now at the level of a student loan. So you increase the incentives for not working, you increase the incentives for not sending kids to kindergarten, where they would learn Norwegian, become socialized and integrated at a time of increasing immigration. It is harmful to integration, to the line of work and to equality. Not only was the government able to deliver a kindergarten message that caused uprisings in the kindergarten sector, but the year before they did the same in gender equality. You put forward a gender equality message that wouldn't lead to more equality. Every day, this government has pursued a policy that puts equality in reverse and gives less freedom to Norwegian families: cutting the paper industry, increasing cash support, longer kindergarten cows, cutting measures against part-time hours, new work environment laws that hit women's homes hard. And in this budget – and for the fourth consecutive year – the government also cuts in the equal opportunities instrument we have, which had needed a strengthening: the equality agency, the equality centres, the LHBT allocation, among others. the money for FRI, Skeiv Youth, Skeiv World and Rosa competence. The whole equality pot actually gets cut. Part-time millions in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have also disappeared this year. In the field of equality, the government once again – as in the kindergarten field – shows that they do not listen to people, professionals or the majority in the Stortinget. In the examination of that communication, we instructed the government to implement 14 gender equality policies. None of this has been followed up. The government disagrees even when the Stortinge makes a decision. Equality does not come of itself. And when they, like every day out there, where people live their lives and work and live, in the municipalities, in the schools, in the workplaces, when they work for increased equality in practice there, advise people about their rights, about employers' duties, about teachers' courses and kindergarten staff, act as a guard against accumulation and government, when they get less room for action, it becomes less activity – less, not more, equality in practice. We want to move on. We're showing it in this budget, with a big commitment to equality, over 60 million. kr. We grant more to those who make gender equality out there – LDO, the equality centres – so that they can become stronger and we can create more. We are strengthening the LHBT actors, where the government has presented a comprehensive action plan without money, and we are strengthening the general equality pot. We're putting money into what the government parties were really going to follow up, their own tripartite cooperation for equality. Part-time millions are back in, and we're putting money into a new municipal equality program. It had a good effect on the gender equality in the last job. We propose increased father's quota, and we simply show in our overall policy every single day in this room that equality is a main area of the Workers' Party, and it does not come about by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2185	It's approaching Christmas. We're in the big wait. Some children are waiting for the daemon, some are waiting for the last episode of Snowfall, and others may just be waiting to begin decorating the Christmas tree. But some children, unfortunately too many, wait for only one thing, and it's that we adults should see them – see that the parents are struggling financially and do not have the power to give them the Christmas night they could have wanted, see that they have a bad secret, see that the adults around them are not kind or unable to give them a good childhood – see and help. I'm proud that this government, along with the cooperation parties, is most committed to those who need it most, namely children and families who are struggling. “Sometimes I get bored when the others boast about the holiday they’re going on.” “I used to lubricate the food package for us children, if that wasn’t enough, I always made sure that my little girls had food with them in kindergarten or in school.” The quotes are from the organization Adults for Children's Book Money and Life, on child poverty. There are many reasons why families are struggling for shorter or longer periods, and there are many measures that need to be taken. Ensuring a safe and flexible labour market and a knowledge school is one of the most important things, but at the same time children live here and now. That is why the strategy against child poverty, children living in poverty, is twofold. It must prevent poverty from inheriting, but also the quality of life of children here and now. The national anti-poverty grant scheme has increased to 193 million. kr, which provides opportunities for children to experience the dream holiday and to go on leisure activities. In the Leisure Declaration, signed by the KS, the Government and non-governmental organisations, the aim is for all children to have the opportunity to participate regularly in at least one organised leisure activity together with others. Good kindergartens are good for children, and therefore it has been important to bet on quality, but in addition we know that children from families who are struggling have extra benefit from going to good kindergartens. We have therefore introduced a more reasonable kindergarten for families with low incomes and a national free core time scheme for those who need it the most. The agreement also includes funds for a trial project for a free kindergarten and free SFO. The childhood we have will last forever. We know today that childhood trauma can come back in terms of poor health and poor quality of life in adulthood. That's why it's so important that children who are hurt get seen and get help early. We don't see it until we believe it, it's called, but we have to start believing it soon, because children are subjected to the worst abuse. One look at the news picture is enough: parents convicted of killing infants a trustee has committed a breach: a new forum discusses the bestial abuses We have to report, we have to see and we have to act. That is why it is good that we now make action plans and follow up with funds. Family protection is strengthened by over 128 million. kr, The State Children's House is strengthened by 148 million. DKr, and 13 million. kr goes to medical examinations. It's important to ensure evidence in a gentle way. We're going to help children, and we're going to make sure the attackers don't go free. Stine Sofie Centreet — National Centre for Mastering and Lifesickness, for children who have experienced violence or sexual assault, has received 29 million. kr. The Foundation Alternative to Violence is strengthened. The incest centers are strengthened. School health services and health centres have been given a formidable boost. The investigation of issues of violence and abuse against children has been strengthened. And we're focusing on more cooperation between services. Those who work near children must have knowledge and skills to deal with violence and sexual assault. As a result, this was part of the various teacher training courses during the harvest and it will be part of professional training. The list I have now referred to is not exhaustive. Nor is the escalation plan to be given further priority in future budgets. We have good child protection in Norway, with many skilled employees, but that doesn't mean that we can't get better, or that it never does wrong. Eight out of ten parents are satisfied with the cooperation and help they get from child protection. There has been a decrease in the number of outpatient children, and the proportion of foster homes in relatives and networks is increasing. All this is good news. The proposal for a child protection reform has been being consulted, and we are now waiting for the matter to be presented in 2017. This will include both proposals for changes in responsibilities in the field of child protection and future quality and competence measures. Municipalities are best aware of individual children. Therefore, municipalities should be given greater responsibility for the protection of children so that they can be involved in prevention and cooperation with other services in the past. A new Child Protection Act is now being consulted. Some of us have been glad that the proposal contains the word ‘love’ and not the word ‘behave’. It will be exciting to follow the law further after the consultation rounds. To get better, we need to learn from our mistakes. That is why it is important that a child violence committee is now set up to review the issues where, as a society, we have failed the children. It's a tough process, but absolutely necessary if we're going to be even better in the future. A good, stable and loving family provides a good basis for adult life. But families sometimes come out in a bit of harsh waters. Maybe the two who have promised each other eternal allegiance cannot keep this, or maybe there are other things that rock the boat. Family protection is a low threshold offer. They have a high level of competence in family conflicts, legal mediation and family conflict prevention. Family protection has had a historic commitment under this government in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Increasing the number of child calls in connection with the legal mediation is a field of action. This is important in order to safeguard the rights of children. They should be heard in matters relating to them, but in a heated conflict they are unfortunately sometimes forgotten, and then it is our duty as a society and make sure they are heard. Equality and equality are basically a matter of justice. It is important to work for all people to have equal rights and opportunities to participate in society, regardless of gender, function, ethnicity, language, religion and sexual orientation. Everyone has the right to a life free of discrimination. The means of achieving full equality must be adapted to modern reality and allow people to choose. We have recently dealt with a gender equality report that brought forward more than 70 bet points. This provides an important basis for further work. It is important to have a strong, consistent, user-friendly and clear legal framework that ensures effective protection against discrimination. It is therefore proposed to merge the four existing equality and discrimination laws into one common law. This will be an exciting bill to deal with in Stortinget. It doesn't help to be right, if you don't get it right. That is why it is so important that we now look at whether we can get a more robust enforcement device, because there are consequences to discriminate. It is therefore gratifying that this government has now, at the hearing, sent a proposal for changes to the enforcement apparatus with a view to clarifying roles and strengthening enforcement. The new denominator shall be able to determine the settlement of labour-related matters and to provide for compensation in simple cases both within and outside the labour market. Children's rights, equality and equality are important in the work done in the area we are now debating. Our committee has a diverse work area, and some of them are tough. I don't think it's just me who's taken to the tears in meeting people. But we're also lucky in our committee. We get to meet people who create, even though they have lost the inalienable. We meet children and young people who work to change systems that haven't always met them with respect, people who go to work every day to ensure children's legal certainty and often get undeserved access to the public, volunteers who do everything they can to make other people's children feel good and experience happiness and love. And that's how I can keep going. I look forward to the further budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2274	I think we all agree that the family represents the foundation of society, is a foundation of society. As a social institution, the deep roots of our history and of our tradition. It is the most important institution for socialisation and for the development of basic identity and self-esteem. There are also our closest and most important social relationships, and that's where we're formed to work in the big society. The family is also an important economic unit, where we meet our basic material needs. Of course, whether the family as an institution does not function or break down, it is a challenge for them first and foremost, for them – especially if they are children – but also for the big community. The starting point of the Advance Party is that the family must have the freedom to design its own everyday life and situation. It is the family itself who knows what works best in the situation they are in, and it is they who can best organize their own lives and their situation. That means that we have to respect that families choose different, and we have to facilitate that it is possible to choose different. We politicians are not going to decide what kind of family situation the individual should have, but we have a great responsibility to design a policy that protects and strengthens the family and does not help to dissolve it. In a busy time, many people want to prioritize more time with family and children. The one-off birth benefit is important for women who have children without entitlement to parental leave. There may often be students or women who have not been in work long enough to earn parental leave. Together with the cooperation parties, the government has gradually increased the lump sum, and for 2017 the proposal after the budgetary conciliation is to increase it from NOK 46 920 to NOK 61 120. It is a fairly solid and formidable promise and at the same time a good measure to reduce income disparities and combat poverty. It is a good measure to enable women in that situation to have a better economic situation. Cash support is also an important contribution to those who choose to spend time at home with their children when they are between one and two years old, rather than working and using kindergarten. It is not the way the Labour Party makes it, that this is to be paid for not being in work. This is a choice you make, it's a choice you have to respect, and it's a choice you have to build up. Of course, when it comes to equality and women's right to choose, there must also be freedom and an opportunity for those who choose to take that year at home. We must have as much respect for them as for those who choose to use kindergarten. Therefore, we are pleased that the cash support after the agreement increases to NOK 7 500 the month. It is a good measure, and it has made a good budget even better. Then, of course, when it comes to cash support, there are challenges, for example. in the case of integration. Nevertheless, we do not believe that it is right to remove the freedom of choice in order to promote integration. This is why the government has introduced a number of other measures to promote integration, such as: five-year living requirements for asylum seekers, refugees and other immigrants, free core time in kindergarten for children in low-income families and a maximum of 6 pst. the total income of the family for a nursery place. Some children live under extremely difficult conditions. In the media, there have been several cases of serious abuse and violence against children. It is difficult to imagine the situation of a child who is exposed to this by adults who should be their security, their protection, and how this can work on a child. That is why the government has presented an escalation plan against violence and abuse in close relations. Action against violence and abuse must be taken on a broad front. The budget initially proposed to strengthen this plan with a budget of 179 million. kr across several departments. In agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, this work is further strengthened to a total of 340 million. kr. It is a formidable and good increase, which has also helped to make a good budget even better. Some examples of important measures that will be supported by this increase are the incest and violence centres, which have increased the grant by another 2 million. kr, the foundation Alternative to Violence, which has been increased by an additional 10 million. NOK, and the Stine Sofies Foundation, which has an increase of another 9 million. NOK – a total of 29 million. kr. There is a solid strengthening of important projects. Not all children experience growing up in families with good finances and wealth. That is why in 2015 the government, like the first government to do this, presented an action plan for child poverty. This is important in order to improve the living conditions of the children in such a situation and to avoid social exclusion. In this work, the organisations are very central, and they are making an invaluable effort. In the budgetary agreement between the four civil parties, the national anti-poverty grant scheme was reinforced by a new EUR 15 million. kr. We're going to get $6 million. kr extra to Red Cross’ Holiday for all, SEK 4 million. kr extra to Blue Cross’ Barnas Station, SEK 3 million. kr extra for the Kirkens Bymission FRI measures and SEK 2 million. kr extra to MOT. This is well spent money and will give many children a more meaningful celebration with good experiences than they would otherwise have had the opportunity to. In addition, the budgetary agreement agreed to strengthen the national grant scheme for children’s and young people’s organisations in general with a new 10 million. kr. So a few words about the kindergartens. Kindergartens play an important role in the growth of children and are important for the families who use them. But then it's not only the extent of kindergartens that are important, although it's also important, but also the quality you have in kindergarten. A well-functioning kindergarten with competent staff gives children a good start to life, develops their social skills and provides the basis for a good schooling afterwards. It is particularly important for children with a background from other cultures or children from low-resource homes. In order to enable those with low incomes to also use kindergartens, the government has introduced during this period two moderation schemes — firstly a national minimum requirement for no one to pay more than 6 pst. of the total income in a nursery, with the maximum price as the maximum. Secondly, five-year-olds in low-income families are now entitled to free core time in kindergarten. These are also important gender equality measures: several women now have the opportunity to get out of work. In addition, the government is taking another step further and has granted 20 million. kr for a trial of free kindergarten and SFO for families with low income. In 2017, the government is adding up to 400 million. kr on measures to promote the quality of kindergartens. It's more than a double since 2013. The budget agreement has a budget of 172 million. to an increased proportion of nursery teachers in kindergartens. In 2018, it will have a full-year effect of 413 million. kr, so that's also a pretty formidable bet. The government also puts up a strong effort against bullying in kindergarten and school. It's set at 75 million. NOK to that, which is an increase of 35 million. kr from last year. There is a solid and good budget presented by the four cooperation parties here today. We have strengthened important aspects of freedom of choice for families by strengthening one-off social assistance and cash support. At the same time, we strengthen efforts where family challenges, violence and abuse in close relationships and against bullying are challenging, and we strengthen efforts for children growing up in poor families, so that they too can participate in the social arenas of society. Of course, this budget does not solve all problems – it will not make budgets or political decisions – but we are convinced that there are important measures that contribute to progress in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2305	So the Christian People's Party promoted an alternative proposal for a government budget in the financial position. The proposal did not receive a majority in the Grand Prix, and the Christian People's Party's representatives voted in a subsidiary way for the proposals resulting from the budgetary union with the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. That is why, in this position, we are promoting the proposals resulting from the budgetary unity, and we are dealing with the adopted framework for Framework 2. The alternative budget of the Christian People's Party contained many strong bets and over 2 billion. kr in increase for family purposes in relation to government proposals for the 2017 government budget. The Christian People's Party prioritised, among others: the provision of cash support, the quality of nursery facilities, increased universal child welfare and a significant increase in the lump-sum benefits. Someone says this is so terribly expensive. Yes, 2 billion. kr is a lot of money, but the Christian People's Party also has good suggestions for invasions. The main impacts in our budget are on green taxes and public health measures, as well as re-priorities from government spending. So someone says, "Can we afford this?" The answer is, we can't afford not to. The criticism of investment in children and families is based on very short-term perspectives. For the Christian People's Party, it's a central point that children and family have a value in themselves. With good family policies, we also contribute to a good social economy. Labour is society's most important resource, and there is no better way to strengthen the labour force of the future than investment in children's development, security and learning. We need schemes that enable parents to have both children and to participate in the labour market. In addition, we need sustainable birth rates and enough workers to finance health and pension expenditure in the future. Birth rates have fallen to the lowest level since 1986. It's not sustainable. That is why the Christian People's Party is betting on the children and the families. With the budget unit, the Christian People's Party ensures several kindergarten teachers, with earmarked appropriations for increased staffing in kindergartens of over 400 million. kr in full-year-olds and several one-year-olds are entitled to kindergarten. The cash support is increased to NOK 7 500 per month. The combination of increased cash support and better childcare facilities is central to the Christian People's Party. Children are so different, and it is important that several parents experience that they have a real choice between a high-quality kindergarten and being able to stay at home a little longer. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that one-off social benefits increase by 25 pst. up to NOK 61 000. In addition, I would like to stress that through consensus, we are increasing the effort to protect children from violence and abuse, ranging from increased funds to alternatives to violence and family protection, to more health sisters and more investigators, prosecutors and interrogators – to mention something. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the conciliation ensures the ideal parents and children's centers of the Church's City Mission, the Blue Cross's Aglo, the Church's Social Service, Sebbelow and Vilde. This is a very important offer that needs to be continued, and we need all the places that they can offer. The Christian People's Party will strongly underline the value of the formulations and allocations of the Stortinget in this position, and both the centres in the Municipality of Oslo and the centres in Vestfold, Trøndelag and Rogaland. The Christian People's Party is pleased that more children are offered holidays with the Red Cross holiday for all, that more children and families are offered through the Barnas Station, and that the MOT and the Church's Bymission's FRI project are strengthened. The capacity of family protection is increased by a further 34 million. kr. The Incest and Rape Centres shall be strengthened by 2 million. I could say a lot about that, but we'll see if we can take it in another post. I am also happy that we were able to fix this cut of 2 million. to equality centres, so as to avoid cutting back on the important work done by these centres. We have promoted the proposals we are making in these matters, and I would also like to inform you that the Christian People's Party will support proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2328	The core of the Central Party's child and family policies is to help smooth out differences and secure all children's right to good growth. A good local economy is crucial to achieve the goal. A good community economy is important to ensure good kindergartens, schools, health centre provision, child protection services, etc. The Centre Party will fully finance child protection measures for single minor asylum seekers, so that municipalities are able to cover their expenditure. We're disappointed that the majority doesn't do anything about this change. I have received a recording from Voss municipality in Hordaland. Voss municipality does a great job of accepting and integrating single minor asylum seekers. Voss municipality will lose 4 million next year. kr because of the government's conversion to a piece price and the fact that the bill is not fully financed. Four million. kr is a lot of money for a municipality like Voss. It is wrong – in our view – to punish municipalities that have done what we have asked the municipalities to do, to accept single minor asylum seekers and to do a good job of integrating them into the community. The most important thing to reduce child poverty is to ensure that parents are in work and have income to live from. In addition, we need to have general and population rights systems that are targeted at families with children. Both the one-off and child-rearing systems are such important universal schemes. If we take all measures against child poverty and remove or weaken the universal systems, many families of children will fall outside and remain with little. Targeting schemes against the very poorest can contribute to even more poor families of children. A system of poor people can continue to be a poor system. Children's Security is a hub to distribute care-related families and those who don't have it. If a distribution between the poor and rich families of children is to be achieved through the tax haven, not by needing or taxing child welfare. The centre part increases child-restraint and single-restraint in relation to Prop. 1st@item: inlistbox We also add extra benefit to multiple parents, who have a greater burden of care, by extending the leave period to ten weeks. We're increasing the parental deduction to NOK 25 000, and we want your father to be granted an independent right to parental leave. We'll also be spending money in the municipality hall on 600 more babysitting places next year. Many children and young people are struggling with mental problems. This is one of the reasons why the Central Party in the state budget next year proposes a five-year municipal mental health escalation plan aimed at children and young people, where we put in ear-marked funds in a phase of escalation. We also put in extra incentives to discover and follow up children of mentally ill and addicted people, and we have funds for medical research at children's homes. We want to focus on the work of the Children's Guard. The Children’s Guard is working to ensure that children and young people are able to use the media in a safe and conscious way. We're going to give the Children's Watch 0.5 million. kr in extra benefit. Since we are not in the committee, we have submitted eight loose proposals, which I would like to take up and mention briefly: ‘The government is asked to make appropriate progress to the Storting to extend the period of leave following multiple births.’ ‘The government is asked by the government to make appropriate progress to the Storting on better support schemes for families with major care challenges’. ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the organisation Children’s Watch to expand its work to create good media habits in children’. ‘The government is asked to ensure that public and private kindergartens are subject to equivalent requirements, including offering, quality, staffing, competence, content, opening hours, number of open weeks per year and common user surveys.’ ‘The decision requests the Government to bring an appropriate action to the Stortinget to terminate the possibility for private consultants/firms to pursue proceedings in the public child protection sector.’ ‘The government requests the appropriate return to Stortinget with a plan to clarify the division of roles between public and private commercial providers in the field of child protection.’ ‘The government is asked to take action against the strong cost increase in the foster home area and to ensure that resources go to the children’s offerings.’ Finally, we have a proposal on consumer policy, which is also under the responsibility of this committee. We're resuming a proposal that almost got multiples in Stortinget before, but the government party would sort it out. This applies to the requirement that there must be a content declaration on alcoholic beverages. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked as part of consumer policy to work towards the introduction of requirements for the content declaration of alcoholic beverages.» We support minority proposal No. 1-4, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2367	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2372	Some of the most beautiful things about Norway is a community based on cohesion, people who are so safe on themselves, have their history and identity, that together we are able to meet the unknown, it is uncertain and lacking in tolerance, respect and sincere willingness to stand up for each other and be out there. An important basic plan for the community to have such a positive strength is freedom – a freedom that thrives on equivalency, small differences and security in everyday life, and that all have equal opportunities to realize the good life for themselves and their loved ones. The value of each individual in a community — a community — feeling equivalent, useful and valued can never be overestimated and never taken for granted. For the Left, Norway's oldest and only social liberal party, the struggle for freedom, for strong communities and for equal opportunities has been the core values since the foundation in 1884, not least ensuring the initial equality of all, regardless of background, social status and parental and executive positions, to give their own children the optimal growth rate. The family policy of the Left assumes that the individual family should have great freedom to find the best solutions. But if freedom is to be real, one must also be free from distress, poverty and inequality. The main priority for the Left in the family area is ours and is the fight against child poverty. Some that 80,000 young people grow up in poverty in Norway are unacceptable. Smoothing social differences and creating equal opportunities for all children can hardly be a priority. On 1 December of this year, the Central Statistical Office presented a report which clearly shows that free core time in kindergarten is working. It is a targeted, effective tool that helps children to do better professionally later in life. Following the introduction of this experiment, the free core time system has been extended and made permanent and, in August 2015, a new national free core time scheme was introduced for four- and five-year-olds from low-income families, regardless of their linguistic background. The following year the three-year-olds were also included and the income limit was extended. For the Left, these have been important issues in each budget debate and at each budgetary conciliation, and this year I am happy to say that we are taking a step further and allow resources for trials where both kindergarten and school-time arrangements are completely free of charge in selected municipalities. The left is also grateful that we have a constructive dialogue with the government on this. In addition to free core time, and now free full-time space trials in kindergarten and SFO, we, together with the Christian People's Party in the budgetary conciliation, have strengthened the national anti-poverty scheme even more. I would also like to mention that municipal child protection is being further strengthened, especially child protection in Oslo, that efforts are being strengthened by more kindergarten teachers and more competent kindergarten staff, and that we are still moving towards a more flexible nursery reception, which the Left originally suggested for 31 December. I am also pleased that early efforts are now being made to make more and more use of family policy as well as knowledge policy. For the Left, ensuring a safe and healthy upbringing for all children is one of the most important tasks we have to solve together. Children must both be challenged and have confidence in developing in order to acquire the knowledge that adult life will require of them. In the four budgetary differences between the four cooperation parties, the fight against child poverty has been high on the agenda and on the results list every time. I'm proud of that, and I want to thank both the Christian People's Party and the government party for having this possible. And of course, at the same time it's important to say that we're not in the goal. This work must also be of high priority in the forthcoming budget. Finally, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to praise the Minister for Children and Gender Equality – mainly because she is reluctant to really burn for her area of responsibility, and has a sincere commitment and concerns about the security of the children and families, but also because she is a minister with a superior capacity to cooperate and play with the Stortinget team. She's actually a role model that several ministers have the advantage of striving to get a little closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2393	Now I got so much praise here that it was difficult to start, but I want to say thank you again to the whole committee for a good cooperation. We can disagree politically on many things, but with regard to the important field of family, children and young people, there is a cross-political consensus in the Storting. That's good for this work. With the government's draft budget and the changes made to the budget agreement, we have now received a budget to improve the situation of vulnerable children and families. This budget strengthens family and social security services. I have met both women and men who have been subjected to violence, and children who have lived with violence and experienced that parents have been subjected to violence. I have met with children who have failed by their very closest caregivers – children who have been subjected to abuse through growth. We've seen how the Internet works as an arena for child abuse globally. There's something that makes an impression. It's bad, but it confirms to me that the work against violence is one of the most fundamental and meaningful things we can do. Everyone has the right to live their lives without being subjected to violence or other assaults. The government recently presented an obliging plan of escalation against violence and abuse. Early response, prevention, increased competence and cross-service cooperation are important measures to meet those challenges, and the same is to provide timely and timely assistance. I am pleased that through the budget agreement, the cooperation parties have increased their investment in this area by around 340 million. kr. The total investment in 2017 will be approximately half a billion dollars, in addition to the increased funds, all of the four batches have entered this field in the last years. I would also like to thank you for providing us with funding for the start-up of the Stine Sofie Centre, and the support to the Centre will be considerably increased next year to ensure full-year operation. The number of poor children in Norway is increasing, and for the first time we now see that children with a minority background are overrepresented. It is worrying that many children and young people experience falling outside society because they grow up in a family with poor finances. After all, it's hard not to afford to be on leisure activities, school trips or to go on vacation. We know that poverty is a complex problem. It's shameful, and some kids hide it from their surroundings. Together with the cooperation parties, the government launched a strategy against child poverty in 2015 and has focused on targeted actions. The need for parents to be at work is important, but the strategy is to prevent poverty from inheriting and improving the quality of life of children here and now. So the effort for next year has been further enhanced. The national grant scheme for child poverty is next year of 193 million. kr, which gives more children the opportunity to participate in leisure activities in their home municipality. For the government and the cooperation parties, the focus on prevention has been important and prevention efforts towards families with children have been strengthened. Safe parents provide safe children. It is therefore important to strengthen the support apparatus around parents and the family. The increase in funding for health centre and school health services, an obliging escalation plan in the field of drugs and a historically high commitment to greater capacity and more provision of family protection services to families with challenges are important interventions in this area. From surveys, we know that eight out of ten families are satisfied with the relief measures they have received and that the confidence of the population in child protection is increasing. There are fewer emergencies, and the use of foster homes in families and networks is increasing. Still, we see that these are challenges. That is why we want to give municipalities greater responsibility for child protection. We want to ensure the quality of many areas of child protection in order to ensure that municipalities are equipped to take greater responsibility, and we also need to strengthen the competence of child protection. Staff are offered training and guidance and management competence is strengthened. The government has an overall equality policy, and we have chosen to step up efforts in the areas we believe are particularly important for increasing equality. So it's not cut in the equality field for next year. All items are price adjusted in the usual way. However, we have chosen to strengthen efforts on projects such as girls and technology, and we are also working for a strong law and enforcement system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2423	Governments have many times, most recently in the United Kingdom on 23 November this year, claimed that the birth rate gives children and parents less time together, and she even believed that the previous government has deprived children the right to be home with both parents. It is well documented from the past that the vast majority of fathers conform to the length of the spring quota, and now numbers from Nav show that even the time that the parents collected is influenced little by the spring quota. The total time taken by the parents has been stable at almost 96 pst. of the total social benefit period since 2010, and it is difficult to claim that children and parents still have less time together for Dad to have his or her own quota. What is it then really based on when she claims that the father ratio deprives children of the right to be at home with both parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2430	Then I would like to remind the representative that the family lost the two extra weeks that the Stoltenberg II government added, which was reserved for father, if not father had the opportunity to take them. This means that children lost contact with their parents more quickly, had to go to kindergarten more quickly or have day care or other arrangements. I would like to stress: we have the world's best parental pension scheme, and this parental pension scheme is for the children. Now the government, together with the cooperative parties, has increased the common share, and that makes more children, when they are so small, have more time at home with their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2437	My point was that the total time the parents have taken out has been stable at 96 pst. since 2010. Another thing the Council of State has said in this room, is that the government's cut in the spring quota did not lead to fathers taking out less leave. On the contrary, the Council of State said that the government's cut in the father's quota, by adding more to the common denominator, was going to encourage fathers to take more leave. It didn't go more than six months from the cut, until the numbers from Nav told us what we know, that cut in quota means that fathers take out less leave, and the numbers from Nav have every six months since confirmed this. Does the Council of State realize that she was wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2444	It was uncertain how this was going to turn out, for it was the first time it had been cut in this quota. What the numbers show is the withdrawal of three schemes, both 10 weeks, 12 weeks and 14 weeks, so it's hard to say exactly what's going to be right. Nevertheless, we have increased the common share, a value that this government wants to raise. We also see that there are several fathers that take more than 14 weeks. It's too early to say, but there's nothing in the law that prevents father from taking out more than the 10 weeks. We believe that the family can best figure out and distribute those weeks as it suits their family.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2451	It's not too early to say if cut in dad's quota affects the leave period the fathers are taking out. It's obvious, and it's documented in the countries around us – when dad doesn't have a quota to put in, it's harder to take out more leave. I recognize that the Council of State still does not want to believe in Nav's number and still leans on the blind ideology of the government and not on facts. Let me then ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think that's good? Or does the council think it's stupid that fathers now take out less leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2461	I just want to say that of course I trust Nav's numbers, because those are the numbers that show this. However, it is – and there we disagree – an important element for the government and the cooperation parties that families should be allowed to choose for themselves. That they get an increased share in common, means that more parents get to be home with their children. Then there is nothing in the law that prevents father from taking more, but unlike the representative Trettebergstuen, who is going to have a quota all the way – she is calling on the state to say what it is like – we have challenged employers to work actively to get more fathers to take more than the ten weeks. They can take 12 weeks, 14 weeks or 16 weeks if they want to, there's nothing in the law that prevents them from doing it. I would encourage fathers to take more than those weeks, but I also believe that the families are able to distribute these weeks themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2468	The majority emphasise the importance of all the non-profit family protection offices and the Church’s Family Protection Foundation – the SFC – as non-profit actors receiving grants to cover administrative costs in line with previous years. The Church Family Protection Foundation is currently using 4.5 million. kr to administration, and it is important that the sum be continued so that SKF, as a non-profit, can carry out its tasks and its role. It is important that the framework for the foundation is not reduced in 2017. Can the Council of State today assure that the Foundation's family protection should be ensured further as an independent, pooling foundation and that the grant framework of 4.5 million. kr not to be reduced in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2475	First, I would like to thank the representative for getting more money for family protection. There has been a strong commitment to this in recent years under this government, which will mean that all family protection offices will have an increased, strengthened, financial framework. The two-track family protection that we have today is important that we continue. This strengthening implies that SKF, that is to say this foundation, will continue to receive direct grants for administration, development and management. This year it amounted to approx. 2.5 million. kr. The activities of the Foundation are also financed by receiving grants from their membership offices for administrative services provided by them to those offices, and the budgetary settlement currently in place strengthens the financial framework of all family protection offices. There will be no such thing in relation to the grants that prevent family protection offices from continuing to purchase services from the Foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2482	There was a report on 20 October, Vista Analyses, entitled ‘A foster home regulation that promotes competition for the best interests of children’, which the department has well ordered, which is interestingly opposed to the adopted fosterheim notification. In this report, one considers the need to change the framework conditions for private suppliers, based on both legal and socio-economic considerations, and then comes up with a number of proposals for changes, including: that contracts with the providers of foster homes must be amended so that they are no longer paid for a package, in order to ensure real competition for certain tasks. Some tasks that private individuals should no longer be allowed to do, such as guidance for foster parents, while there are other things that they can do, are also referred to, and one says that there must be a legal and legal review here. Has the Council taken a decision on how this will be followed up from the Government’s side?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2487	We've got this report, and we're working on it. It will be an important part of the development of child protection reform, which I aim to promote for the Spring Storting. What we know is that there are some unfortunate situations, like the double role of the private, that both do the monitoring for the municipality and offer services afterwards. We also know that there are other things that can be unfortunate. At the same time, I would like to stress that private people are making a wonderful effort in the foster home area. We need to give children a good offer, both through private, non-profit and state aid measures in this area. It's too early to say how we're going to follow it up, but it's about the child protection reform coming to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2496	For most families with children, the economy is so tight that the shirt just covers the hedge. They can hardly go down in wages when they are going to multiply and increase the number of children in the families of the world and in the country. For the families in this situation, it is a very comprehensive alternative and gripped to go from 100 pst. to 80 pst. pay to be at home with their children. SV has made proposals on 90 pst. And to be home for 54 weeks. Does the Council of State see that this can be a better and more practical arrangement for families with children?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2501	We are concerned about the increase in child poverty. That's why the measures we put in there are important. The government has many measures to help these families, both leisure activities and holiday offers, and not least free core time in the kindergarten and lower payments for those with low income, to mention something. We have also set up a sample that now in March comes with its assessment of all schemes that families with children have, that will be exciting to look at. For families, even in the future, good welfare arrangements must still be in place to safeguard their families. However, I do not want to comment on the proposal that the representative is now making. I'm waiting for the sample to look at all the schemes that families with children have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2508	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2513	I want to start by quoting kindergarten teachers and introduced rogalending Kenneth Henriksen – first of all because in a debate he brilliantly conveys the results of the community's efforts for good kindergartens, but also because he so well explains why it is so important that kindergartens provide first and foremost security for children's everyday lives, work to develop the social skills of children and not least prepare their children for life further. He confirms that the Stortinget did right when we rejected the government's proposal to allow the school to move into the kindergarten. Kenneth says: «When we play in my department, it is based on the kindergarten law, the framework plan, the annual wheel and the monthly plan. We're on more issues than what gets into a short wardrobe conversation, and I hope the parents have confidence in what's going on in the department all day. Next time you hear that your child has played, so white that he or she has prepared for the future. My education has taken many years, and it is not something I take lightly. It's still in development. When I graduated, I reminded myself of something my father said to me when I took the driver's license: "The driver's license is not proof that you can drive, but proof that you can practice alone. You can always become a better driver." I practice driving every day at work and develop constantly. I develop with the children and the children evolve with me. We play, we learn, we form a foundation." And he goes on to say, «I have a deadline for my job: 18 August at 09:00 a.m., the year the child turns six. Within that time, my job must be done to a large extent. That's what society expects. In that case, the child shall be prepared for requirements and obligations. I'm a kindergarten teacher, and I love my job." The teaching of kindergartens and adults with good qualifications is important elsewhere. Kindergarten quality depends on it. The working party, in consultation with several parties, has therefore shown great impatience with Crew Plan 2020 preparations and in removing the permanent freedom of exemption from pedagogical teacher training requirements for pedagogical leaders. In order to ensure a higher proportion of adults with relevant competences, we have also made a separate contribution to the budget for the next year. Whether or not the Minister of Kindergarten can appear to act in some areas is possible. Claiming that you have been active in kindergartens is not possible. However, this has not prevented Storting from driving child care policy in the right direction. In the budget, the Minister outlines that she will send a plan for consultation next year. With the pen in hand, the minister has had to suspend the exemption for educational leaders from 1 August this year, and the jam has demanded the Christian People's Party and the Left that the government parties stand behind the idea of giving money to more adults with the right skills next year. Recognising that enough qualified employees are the most important quality factor in kindergarten, we are on the right track. This is supported by the increasing number of staff with a degree in the field of child labour and youth. The fact that Stavanger's adviser is now investigating a temporary pool scheme for kindergartens is also such an example. The point is that the kindergartens should be able to meet regular temporary workers. As an additional bonus, this could improve working conditions and predictability for kindergarten managers, and possibly cut costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2540	This government is betting on kindergarten. Kindergarten is an important and central part of the life of the vast majority of families with children today. Kindergarten is an offer that is important for families, just to make everyday life go up in a home where both mother and father will of course have the opportunity to be active in working life in combination with being small children’s families. Kindergarten is also an important arena for the children themselves, for their development of mastering and social characteristics, and an introductory learning course to continue in school. Early efforts and integration begin in kindergarten. The participation of children in this community provides a unique opportunity to discover and help those who need a little extra support. It's important that kindergarten also become the arena for necessary help to those who need it the most. In order to achieve this, the 2017 budget provides for nearly 400 million. kr for the quality of kindergarten, more than any previous government has applied to this. I am pleased that kindergarten employees have become a natural part of the quality promise aimed at the everyday life of children and young people. During the spring of 2017, proposals for the standard of personnel in kindergartens are sent to the hearing. But we're not waiting for it. Already in this budget, a total of 172 million have been put in. kr for increased staffing, an increase in the 2018 budget to 413 million. kr. It is a significant boost and underlines the willingness to bet on quality in kindergarten. Of course, when so much effort is made to reach children in kindergarten with good help, this needs to be followed up with measures to ensure that the children get into kindergarten. In order not to determine the level of the family’s salary, whether the family can afford kindergarten, the government has introduced that no family should pay more than 6 pst. of the income in a nursery place. This is a social profile there is reason to be proud of, and it is with great wonder we record that this handshake of the children of these families of the Workers' Party is referred to as a trap of poverty. However, we are engaged in social-profile schemes in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate. That is why it is also set at 20 million in the budget. kr for free nursery and SFO trials for low-income families. This is also a system eaten against the kids who need us the most, who need us to see them. The system must, of course, be set up according to its needs and not according to the address. For this reason, we must not forget that in this period full funding has been provided for 3 400 new kindergartens, and that the right of access has been extended to children born between 1 September and 31 October. This is probably a step to solve in the kindergarten queues, and we are very happy that the money for increased number of kindergarten seats gives us feedback that more and more people now have ongoing admissions in principle. That's the target. The word ‘working day integration’ has been given a central place in our language and was recently referred to as the new word of the year. The word is of little value if it is not implemented in practice. Access to space, the social profile and the quality of employees are everyday integration in practice. Kindergarten is a unique arena for everyday integration, whether it is an ethnic, social or geographical background that triggers a need. That is why the government's focus on kindergarten is very important, a good priority and a necessary help for those who need it the most. So, as we have said in a previous post today, so it was little time from the Financial Committee's decision to give up our budget. In the event of an incurrency, there has been an error in a proposal that now exists, which concerns cash support. This relates to the sum of cash support in the first half of 2017, where it says NOK 6500 – it should be NOK 6000. It is corrected in proposal No. 19th@item: inlistbox I take up that proposal and ask that this replace VI in the vote when we come to voting. As regards proposal No: 17, from the Central Party, it's a good opportunity to support the intention of that proposal, but we're not sure what this implies by international rules and other things that we have to check out. That is why we are expressing our support for the intention, but we are not going to vote in favour of the proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2559	The representative of Svein Harberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2565	We're approaching Christmas. The family is important, but it is also safe and good in the family. Today we adopt the family budget and the gender budget. SV's alternative budget is the family budget. We strengthen the common school and kindergartens. We want to give kids better air to breathe in and parents a job to go to. We want to strengthen maternity care, and we want to strengthen the school health service. We want to strengthen child protection and make babysitting cheaper. Securing the kids and families is our common job here at Stortinget – a safe childhood that is free of violence. Horriblely many are subjected to violence from those who were to be the closest. Too many mothers, and some children, are actually killed. Several times we see that the police and helpers who might have seen the signs, who would have accepted the concerns, who would have acted, have not done so – unfortunately. There are several tools and plans that are being used too badly. Unfortunately, we can see that. People lose their lives. We can't have it like that. That is why SV is committed to combating violence against women. We're betting on the crisis centers. We're going to bet on a rape center. We support those who are first in the fight, the women's organisations, and we will pay the bill for the abusers in hospitals. We have to take the violence most seriously, and I expect that is something that the whole Storting also wants. We also focus on a good and safe start to life. We propose more flexible arrangements for families going on maternity leave. We propose more special arrangements for those families that get more kids at once, and we have to save people from struggling. The paper size is going to be 14 weeks. We're going to get that fixed as quickly as we get tossed this government at the next election. We are starting the long work of resuming the loss of child welfare since it was last adjusted in 1996. Even today, there are special arrangements in the area of child welfare for those who have to provide alone. We know that the single mothers and fathers often struggle to get the money to go to. The same goes for them with a lot of kids. SV suggests a new and stronger child-responsive where they with many kids get a little more, and where those who are alone with kids get a little more. It's going to help families out of poverty. We now need a shipper’s roof in Norway – for equality and security, for better and more flexible family policies, for equal opportunities for all and for more people to escape poverty. We can do that. SV's alternative budget is a good first step on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2578	The budget agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left involves a major effort on kindergarten teachers in 2017. The government wants all children to get a good start in their lives, and being with other children and a professionally qualified kindergarten staff contributes to it. A good childcare facility that provides children with a safe and stimulating learning environment is the most effective means of providing children with a good childhood and equal opportunities to succeed later in the education and working life. There is no contrast between play and learning. Kids learn fast, and they're like little mushrooms. It is instructive and developing for the smallest to spend time, play and explore with other children and with a competent staff. Good kindergartens are important for all children, but especially important for children from low-resource homes or children from families where there is no Norwegian at home. Good quality childcare facilities are early interventions, especially for children who, for various reasons, need special support and care. I am very pleased that the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left can present a budget that strengthens precisely the kindergartens. The government is betting more on the quality of kindergarten than any previous government. For 2017, we propose to continue the strong and targeted efforts on quality. We're going to spend almost 570 million in 2017. on measures to promote the quality of kindergartens, including funds for several kindergarten teachers. This is more than a triple since 2013. This is the money used to give more professional weight to those who already work in kindergartens. All employees in kindergartens are covered by the measures. Assistants are given the opportunity to take vocational or kindergarten teacher training and directors have the opportunity to take further training in management. In 2016, further training offers for kindergarten teachers have been extended, and vocational education offers for child and youth workers have been established. Both of these actions will be further strengthened in 2017. The government will continue to work to improve the quality of kindergartens. The draft new framework for the content and tasks of kindergarten is currently in wide consultation. The framework plan shall be established in the spring of 2017 and shall apply from the kindergarten year starting in the autumn of 2017. We look forward to all the consultation input into the draft from the sector. The framework plan shall become a clearer governance document with clear requirements and obligations in order to provide a good childcare service to all children. The work of creating an inclusive society must start early. All kindergarten children shall have a secure framework for development and learning in good kindergartens with both sufficient staff and employees with relevant professional competence. The main challenge today is the wide variation in the quality of supply, in particular in the competence of staff. For many years it was an objective that private and municipal kindergartens should have equivalent financial framework conditions. The 2016 budget reached this milestone. Equal treatment of private and municipal kindergartens has facilitated further strengthening of the quality of kindergartens. As announced in the budget proposal, during the spring of 2017, the government will submit to the consultation a proposal to introduce a standard of personnel in kindergartens. Without an equivalent financial framework between private and municipal kindergartens, it would be problematic to introduce a national standard of manning. The budget agreement for 2017 provides for 172 million. to an increased proportion of nursery teachers in kindergartens. In 2018, the allocation was increased to 413 million. kr. Increasing the level of competence in the sector is crucial if we are to achieve the objective of improving quality. Although there is good childcare in most places, there is still a need for better access. The Agreement for 2017 therefore proposes to amend the Kindergarten Act to include one-year-olds born from 1 November to 30. No later than 1 year of age, shall be allocated to the right place from November. It is a step on the way to fulfilling the promise of the government's political platform to facilitate a more flexible admission. – I see the time running, so I finish there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2613	In the budget agreement, the cooperative parties have helped the government to spend 172 million. for kindergarten teachers. That's good. But it's a challenge here. The Government has decided to treat municipal and non-municipal kindergartens financially in a non-university manner so that they will receive the same grant. The government has not provided the local authorities with the opportunity to make claims on the private kindergartens. This means that municipalities can use this money to hire more kindergarten teachers, but they cannot demand that private people do the same. How is the Council of State supposed to make sure that the 172 million? Do you actually apply to kindergarten teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2618	As I said in my main post, a national staffing norm will lay the foundation for it. Manning is the most important prerequisite for good quality, and we want more kindergarten teachers in kindergartens. Fortunately, it's also going the right way now. We see that the staff increases in kindergartens, and so does it without a legal requirement. As I said, we are sending proposals for consultation to spring, and the plan is that this should be implemented by 2020. Equal treatment is precisely based on the fact that private kindergartens should also be able to have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2623	In budgetary question No 471 asks the Labour Party how much it will cost to extend the right to kindergarten to include the November and December children. The Council of State answers that it will require 1,800 places and cost 200 million. kr. So we've put it in our budget. In budgetary question No 150 asks the Left how much it will cost to extend the right to include the November children. Governments say it's going to cost me $0. How can it be that children's playgrounds cost money when the Workers' Party asks, but is free when the Left asks?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2628	I have to ask for some understanding that I have not seen all the questions that have been raised through the budgetary process. The background, as far as I understand, is that the money has already been put into the municipal framework, and that is also why it has cost nothing more for next year. But I have to ask for an understanding that I have not seen all the questions that have been asked, and the answers that have been delivered to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2633	I understand that the Council of State may have to come back with answers, because it is a timely question to ask. There will also be an opportunity to come back with whether the government's view of this is supported by KS. And why in the world hasn't the government itself proposed this for the November children when it doesn't cost anything, or at least took the trouble of making the Storting aware that it doesn't cost anything, to make sure that more children get space?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2638	Now you change the rights so that the November children too get the right place. Children born from 1 November to 30 November. November is given right to place from the age of one, as I said – and I also said in my main post – you also extend the rights. Then the framework grant for municipalities in 2015 increased this by 333 million. NOK 400 million was further increased. in 2016, just to facilitate a more flexible admission and also the extension of the rights of the smallest children. The number from the Education Directorate also shows that all the children who had the right place had the space.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2645	I would also like to ask questions related to the fact that we are now moving the date limit, so that children who were born before the end of November have the right to kindergarten when they are 1 year old. On the Christian People's Party's question to the Ministry of Finance about what the proceeds would be, we were told that it would be zero, because the places that it will be needed exist already, there is enough space. I would very much like the Council of State to confirm this, and that she can also be clear that we do not now risk sending an unpaid bill to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2650	I can confirm that. It is already within the municipal framework, so the municipalities are not charged as a result. That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2656	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2663	The last time I had the opportunity to represent my state in this house, I was given a very interesting and, in part, a shocking interpellation debate – about the so-called Glasshenta, the 18-year-old ‘Ida’s meeting with the Child Protection Service and the treatment she received. This is the story of care failure and system failure – about the shortcoming of child protection, lack of competence, and I would say: lack of resources at several levels. ‘Ida’s story is hardly unique. When I choose to start with a reference to the ‘Ida’ case, it is not because I believe it is representative of today’s child protection services. Employees in national and municipal child protection do an excellent job every day for children who fail by their parents, and therefore do not get the care and growth that we all wish they had. Nevertheless, the history of ‘Ida’ is important because it shows what can happen when the system fails. And it underlines the need for increased resource efforts, more jobs and increased skills in an agency that has been underfunded for many years. That is why we took the initiative for the child-restraint lift, which has given child-rescue protection nearly 1,000 new jobs. That's why we're so concerned about children's growing-up conditions, because we know that what fails in the first few years of life can ruin a whole life. I do not expect the government’s budget proposal for 2017 to respond to all the challenges raised by the ‘Ida’ issue. It's a long-term work. However, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus that child protection should be given to increased resources and new competences. And I record that the government announces a quality and structural reform for child protection in spring 2017. I am waiting for the government here to address some of the attitudes, the culture and the ethical issues that the ‘Ida’ issue raises. We know that good goals and intentions are important, but not enough to create good child protection. Early action and prevention are essential for good results. We often experience that the child protection only comes into the matter when the damage is so great that they can hardly be repaired. We see that the interaction between kindergarten, school and child protection is crucial for the development of children when parental responsibility fails. Increased attention to child rearing conditions, care failures and abuses contribute in themselves to increasing the pressure on child protection services. Statistics show that 44 out of 428 municipalities are able to deal with child protection concerns within the deadline. Among the 53 largest municipalities, only one has kept the deadlines. This says and tells us that we need to put child protection higher on the political agenda and in our political everyday life. In this respect, let me stress that the first line of child protection, that is municipal child protection, is particularly important, and that it is primarily here that the use of resources needs to be increased. Then we do not exclude the designation of positions – at least for a period to come. Although I wish that child protection was entirely a public service, I recognise that NPISHs and other private actors are part of the child protection offer. But I react to the fact that our most vulnerable children and young people will be put on the market – which was a good or service that commercial operators in a market are going to compete for! If there is any service that is not suitable for outsourcing, it is. Despite this, the government is going in to outsource the ideal centers for parents and children in Oslo. But I note with some satisfaction that, after the budgetary conciliation, the government parties do not follow up on the government's proposals in the Stortinget, and I assume that the Christian People's Party has won a victory here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2684	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2689	Family protection has an important role and function. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the family protection service through the budgetary unit will also be strengthened in 2017, as it has been for the last four years. An overall committee underlines the value of having a two-track family protection. We believe it is valuable that non-profit actors contribute to the field of family protection, as they also do in the health and care sector for the rest. In addition to the entry for the ideal family protection, the Church Family Protection Foundation receives a grant. The majority emphasises the importance of the fact that all the non-profit family protection offices and the foundation, such as non-profit actors, receive grants to cover administrative costs, in line with previous years. We refer to previous years' remarks on appropriations for administration, development and management at the centre of the Church's Family Protection Foundation to ensure that church family protection is given the opportunity to maintain its own distinctive character and the need for central administration and management. The majority emphasises that, in addition to ensuring funds for normal operation, the Church offices, which are currently secured funds for operation, for finance, for staff and for administrative tasks. The Church Family Protection Foundation today spends 4.54 million. kr to the administration, and this is not much, compared to other organisations and foundations. It is important that this sum be continued so that the foundation as a non-profit institution can carry out its tasks and its role. This is the level necessary to fulfil the role of non-profit-making actors, as well as the tasks of the economy and staff and organisational management. It is important that the framework for SKF is not reduced in 2017. I am not quite sure that this will be taken care of, following the Council of State's answer to my very specific question in the reply, so I would ask the Council of State to say some sentences that ensure the foundation gets at least the same amount at the central level, as in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2708	My motivation to pursue politics is essentially about helping to create equal opportunities for everyone. Giving children a good start in life will be an important piece in creating a good society. The last ten years have been going on a formidable expansion of the capacity of the nursery facility, and that is very good. But at the same time, we know that the quality varies, and unfortunately, all children have not had the same good access to a good offer. For this reason, it is good that the government bets on improving quality, providing lower parental benefit for low-income families and providing more flexible childcare services, so that more children have a good childcare provision. One of the reasons we have achieved full child care coverage in a relatively short period of time is that we have a mix of private and public actors. I think that is very good, and therefore it is also gratifying that the government provides equivalent treatment for municipal and private kindergartens. We know that a good education is essential for each one to be able to take an active part in society and have the opportunity to realize his talent. We also know that knowledge is our most important tool to balance social differences. Education is the best industrial policy, the best social policy and the best integration policy. If the school is to succeed in giving students equal opportunities, regardless of their parents' background and their economy, we need to step up early efforts, and then we need to have good kindergartens. Children have an incredible ability to learn, to create and to think creatively. They're curious, and it's fascinating to observe how much they understand. We also see that when it comes to using new technologies. For this reason, it is positive that the government implements several measures to stimulate kindergarten children: in anti- bullying work, in language, in reading and writing and, last but not least, in stimulating interest in real-life subjects. In Oslo, the research facility has moved into its own laboratory in the Espira nursery in Løren. There, children are stimulated by their natural curiosity through fun experiments of knowledgeable guides who know how the game can contribute to learning and where both language comprehension and real-life interest are aroused early. I think we have a lot to get to invest even more in a good childhood. We know that many of those who fall from high school encountered problems early in school. It's not just a social problem that costs us billions. There is also a problem for individuals who are at risk of becoming a loser in society. We know that early learning is an important prerequisite for success at school, and we know that social differences are inherited. Weak assumptions early in life increase the chance of failure later. Therefore, it is good that the government now strengthens early efforts, both at school and in kindergarten. It is our contribution that will ensure that all children can have equal opportunities to acquire knowledge and succeed in their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2725	It's sad that the government shuts down the Au Pair Center. The Au Pair Center was officially opened in January 2013 as one of several measures to ensure that the aupair system is used after the cultural exchange intention. Other measures taken to ensure the scheme were, for example: that the au pair should not have children, that they could move in with the next host family after submitting the application to the police, that the host family should pay for repatriation, and a quarantine scheme for host families who abuse the scheme. None of these improvements have an effect in themselves, if there is no instance to ensure that this is followed. Au Pair Center ensures that the au pair get the rights they actually have. Without the centre, the host families who abuse the scheme can do this without consequences for themselves, and without the centre, the host families who seek help and advice at the centre do not have any place to turn to to make stays for the au pair the best possible. This is about trust and competence built up over time, and the Centre maintains statistics and will be able to make recommendations as to where the improvements in the aupair systems of the au pair families should come. Three million. This costs the State. Now the government puts down the center, and we know who's going to lose. It's the families, and of course it's the au pair. Some people think that the solution is to put down the whole aupair system, but we live in the time of migration. If we put down the aupair system, other women and men are ready to wash, cook and care for children in the many thousands of Norwegian homes. The government has spoken, and they have decided that the Au Pair Center is shut down, and now the au pair have to deal with themselves, if they meet challenges in the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2734	Today we have repeatedly heard from the government parties that they are betting on kindergarten. It's actually wrong. You can pretend to be, and you can keep saying it, but the budgets and the political practices show the opposite. The Prime Minister has been liberatingly honest and said what it is: we want to bet on school, we don't want to bet on kindergarten. It started with a cut of 6000 places in 2013. It still has growing cows and increased max price. There has been no desire to address the most important quality-lifted kindergartens now needed, which is the follow-up to Storting's decision on manning standards. We have asked for a concrete plan on how to achieve it. The government responds by pushing on it even a little further and just sending out a proposal at the hearing. It's too small and too late. Luckily, we have the Christian People's Party and the Left, who each year have spent their energy saving the stumps of the submitted budgets and at least ready to get something into the kindergarten – thank you for that. I'm actually taking the word after what happened in the line chord shift. There are now 10,400 children in line. When the Workers' Party asks about what it costs to extend the entitlement to kindergarten for 1-year-olds to also apply to the December-children, we get the answer that it costs 200 million. kr. But when the Left asks the same question, and when the government parties file for the November children, it's free. Now the Council of State says that it is because this money is within the framework. But then it must be that the government parties have had in the budget a pediatric bet they haven't talked about. I don't think so. But it is also such that, on another budget question about kindergarten, the Council of State answers Torbjørn Røe Isaksen that the budget submitted to the government does not provide room for new places. We have to drill this. If the government decides something they do not have financial cover for, but refers to the framework and the municipalities, it will be the way that most of the time has been before: the government spends the money on the municipal framework several times, and it is the municipalities that are sitting with the bill for the government's fun.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2749	I take the floor to clarify what the representative Bekkewold asked for. Today's practice of financing the church-owned family protection offices and the Church's Family Protection Foundation continues. It implies that the Foundation will continue to receive direct grants for administration, development and management. In 2016, this amounted to approx. 2.5 million. kr. The activities of the Foundation are also financed by receiving grants from their membership offices for the administrative services they provide to those offices. The budget agreement strengthens the financial framework for the family protection offices. There will be nothing in the grant to the family protection offices that prevents them from continuing to purchase services from the foundation. However, it will be up to each church-owned family protection office if they wish to continue such purchases, and the government cannot guarantee this. I hope that was clarifying. I am very pleased with the extra money that family protection offices have received in the budget agreement, and with the efforts being made at those offices. I also wanted to comment on Gullvåg's articles. He's taking up the Ida case. The Ida case is a matter that has made an impression on us all. It shows failure in all fields, and that's something we have to deal with. Child protection has received a lot of criticism in the report that has been made, but there is just as much criticism of the work on mental health. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health and I have now received a report from both our Directorates on how we can strengthen this work in the field of mental health and child protection. From next year, all child protection institutions will have a health officer, who will be involved in and strengthen this work, but there will also have to be several other interventions in this area. I am pleased that the representative is talking about prevention, early intervention and cross-service cooperation, because the main child protection work is going on in the municipalities. It is important that all family services work together to help people become good and safe parents, so that, if possible, they can avoid taking care of them. Early effort is then important. The strength that now comes to health centres helps to make it possible to discover families and children who do not have it so well in the past and to use help in the past. I fully agree with the representative of Gullvåg that it is high time – and that we have to – to get child protection on the political agenda, also in the municipality. I am pleased with the commitment that the Committee and its representatives have in this field, for this requires effort. The government aims to present a child protection reform to spring, which will also help to strengthen this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2760	I take the floor because I see the debate going to the end, and I thank the Committee for good cooperation and debate. There is no doubt that several of the issues mentioned in the submissions today are coming back to us. Yes, a pediatric code is to be sent to the hearing. It's the beginning of something to come to Stortinget. There will be several other messages and issues affecting our policy area, so there will be a good opportunity to discuss both child protection, media and several other issues in the coming period. That's what we're looking forward to. Thank you for a clean and good debate. And, President, we have followed the call to be effective in the debate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2768	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5–7.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2784	No one has asked for the floor. The President will congratulate the Committee on having kept the form well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2804	A total of 77 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-11, 49 and 50, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 12 and 51, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13 and 52-55, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 56 and 57, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 15 and 58, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 59, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 60 to 64, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 16–39 and 65–74, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 40–48 and 75–78, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 40-42 and 47 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The size opposes the phasing-out of the scheme of green certificates until a new scheme for the production of new renewable energy is in place.’;» Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new renewable energy support scheme to have a binding target of stepping up new renewable production of 10-20 TWh by 2030, in addition to the certificate target for 2021.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the Climate and Energy Fund in a stand-alone fund with significant commitment powers.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the 100 kW limit in the plus customer scheme in force from 1 January 2017.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2870	We'll take care of it. There are 97 representatives who have voted against and three representatives who have voted in favour of the Socialist Left proposals. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 43 to 46, 48 and 75 to 78 of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Enova is given an independent responsibility for achieving a 5 TWh reduction in total energy consumption in construction, compared to current energy consumption, by the end of 2025.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The size requests the Government in its letter of assignment to Enova to require that the power requirement be increased to 120 kW, while ensuring that the electricity grid in connection with the expansion of charging stations has sufficient capacity.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set a target of producing a total of 0,5 TWh from solar roofs on households by 2020 and to entrust Enova with the task of ensuring that the target is achieved.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government asks to set a measurement of 5 TWh produced current and heat generated from the sun.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Enova emphasises the need to reduce local pollution by allocating funds to shore-side electricity.’ Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The budget requires the Government to submit a plan for the further escalation of the turnover obligation to 2025 in the context of the revised national budget 2017.’;» Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of E10 by default from 1 January 2019.’; [[10 pst. Ethanol in petrol]] Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the turnover obligation to include duty-free diesel.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The Government requests that plant machinery be required to use zero-emission fuel from 1 January 2018 and that low- and zero-emission technology is required as soon as possible.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e2930	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16–39 and 65–74 from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for the study and removal of installations that ensure predictability, contributes to research and development, improve coordination between authorities, operators and suppliers, which can contribute to a more optimal cost level for operators and society.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate a review of the petroleum tax to ensure that it does not promote investments in petroleum extraction, which are incompatible with the Paris climate agreement and the ambition to avoid global warming of more than 1,5 degrees.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose to the Storting that the petroleum tax be neutralised and that the current subsidy on the oil industry be removed.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government requests a halt to the 24th concession round.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case in spring 2017 on the use of energy on the base and the connection with the mainland’s power system, with an assessment of the energy needs of the socket and how this will be met in the future, in line with the ambition that we will not exceed 1.5 degree temperature rise.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a zero-emission technology programme for the oil and gas sector, thus contributing to zero-emission solutions for the remaining production and use of fossil energy sources. The programme shall be financed by the oil and gas industry through concessional obligations.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the revised national budget for 2017 to assess how the electricity charge is for the production of hydrogen for transport purposes and to propose a conversion of charges that reduce disproportionate disadvantages for the production of hydrogen for transport purposes.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the truck charging regime in order to make the choice of low and zero emission technologies profitable, and to make a first proposal for such changes to the 2018 government budget proposals.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the tax regime for buses to make the choice of low and zero emission technologies profitable, and to make a first proposal for such changes to the draft government budget for 2018.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to initiate the sampling of hydrogen locomotives by the NSB or CargoNet on one of the non-electrified routes.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government of the submitted new national transport plan to phase-in phase-in of sustainable zero-emission fuel on all current diesel-fuelled railway lines and by 2020 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The size requires the government in the proposal for a new national transport plan to add electrification or other zero-emission technology to all current diesel-fuelled railway lines and by 2025 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The government asks the Government to amend technical building regulations [[TEK]] Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further conversion of car charges and fortify the emissions target from 85 g CO 2 /km to 10 g CO 2 /km, as an average for the whole new car fleet by 2020, and for a target of at least nine out of ten new cars sold in 2020 to be zero-emission cars.’;» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to instruct the Melkøya plant to use electricity from the grid or to use carbon capture and storage on its own energy production.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of emission requirements for fuel use in all Norwegian waters and proposes the imposition of a prohibition on the use of heavy oil.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government in its 2018 draft government budget to propose the introduction of a one-off charge for boat engines to promote energy efficiency and the use of low- and zero-emission technologies.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for sustainable zero-emission fuel and low or zero-emission technology to be required by the Government in the next tender for the Bergen-Churches coastal route.’» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to require all supply ships to operate in Norwegian waters to receive shore-side electricity from 1 January 2019.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all cruise ships intended to operate in Norwegian waters be required by the Government to receive shore-side electricity from 1 January 2020.’;» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government requests the use of differentiated port charges to promote the use of shore electricity and renewable fuels in shipping.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government in its proposals for the revised national budget for 2018 to propose the elimination of the possibility of using free-of-charge diesel.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the ports of Bergen, Ålesund, Trondheim, Bodø, Tromsø, Honningsvåg and Kirkenes have a solution with land flow to Hurtigruten as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: «The government is asked to provide the revised national budget for 2017 with a timetable for the investment decision and financing solution for the carbon, capture and storage solution transport and storage solution of CO 2.» Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the regulation on public acquisitions, in order to require that all transport services provided to the public and in tenders to the public be based on sustainable zero-emission fuel or zero-emission technology from 1 July 2017.’;» Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a strategy on how Norway is to ensure access to and promote product development and production of sustainable biofuels.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals in spring 2017 for instruments to ensure that municipalities are stimulated to produce biogas from biological waste and that the demand for biogas is increased, and to ensure that biogas can contribute to fulfilling the market obligation for biofuels.’» Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a separate case to the Stortinget during the spring 2017 session, with measures to ensure safe air in cities.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to include particulate pollution as part of the calculation basis for the one-off charge on new cars, in view of the possible introduction into the State budget for 2018.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government is asking the local government to authorise municipalities to set themselves the level of locally introduced heavy-duty tyres in addition to a minimum level, or to allow municipalities to choose between several different rates for the introduction of heavy-duty tyres.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure the possibility of environmental differentiation in existing and future toll agreements, so that it can be addressed during the Spring 2017 Stortingen session.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate, as soon as possible, an aid scheme to phase out polluting wood stoves in cooperation with municipalities which have harmful urban air.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ban the breeding of bogs during the spring of 2017.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide the municipalities with the possibility to finance the clean-up of marine waste by means of the renovation fee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e3126	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 60 to 64, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The size request of the government in the context of the revised budget for 2017 to submit a phasing-in plan for the placing on the market requirement to increase the share of biofuels to 20 pst. in 2020, where the double counting of advanced biofuels is to continue. As far as possible of the increase in biofuel turnover is covered by the use of advanced biofuels and a sub-requirement for advanced biofuels of 13 pst is considered. in 2020. In order to ensure predictability for manufacturers, a plan is provided for further increasing the placing on the market requirement for biofuels and advanced biofuels in the years up to 2030.’;» Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a permanent VAT compensation scheme related to antiquarian maintenance aimed at owners of buildings that are protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated for protection under the Planning and Building Act.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Property Tax Act which exempt all owners of buildings which are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated for protection under the Planning and Building Act from municipal property tax.’; Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose other tax relief models that can contribute to the smooth, good maintenance of buildings that are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated by the Planning and Building Act.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to return to Stortinget with an escalating plan for Norwegian cultural memory funds, with a view to providing the fund with 300 million in the long term. cents for annual distribution.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e3163	It is voted on proposal 59, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a footing centre in Gaular, and to promote proposals for this in the revised national budget for 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e3179	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 58, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget to amend the Port Act in order to promote shore-side electricity solutions in Norwegian ports.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government asks the local government to allow the municipalities to fine marine litter.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e3201	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 56 and 57, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to implement a stepping-up plan to increase the market requirement for biofuels with a requirement of 40 pst. by 2030, 20 pst. in 2020, 25 p.m. in 2025. A control station shall be introduced in 2022 to assess the availability of sustainable biofuels. In this context, the Government is asked to develop a strategy for an industrial value chain for sustainable biofuel production based on Norwegian biomass, inter alia, from Norwegian forests. The strategy is presented in the context of the revised national budget 2017.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a strategy to strengthen the objectives of climate-friendly shipping in the context of new objectives of incorporation of 20 pst. biodiesel for cargo ships and 20 pst. biodiesel in the fishing fleet.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e3223	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 52–55, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a reduction in the power charge for high-speed chargers of 5000 kWh per month, in the context of the 2018 State budget.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that priority is given to species and selected habitat types and to return to the Stortinget with a report on this in the context of the revised state budget 2017’.» Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government is asked to inform the Stortinget about the climate impact of the State budget following a draft by the Municipality of Oslo.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions for each sector, as requested by the Stortinget in the context of the energy notification process.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the decision to close the product register for different chemicals be postponed by the government until a new and thorough assessment has been made of the institutions and registers which could, if necessary, adequately discharge the role of the product register today, and submit this assessment to the Stortinget, at the latest in the submission of the revised government budget for 2017.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e3260	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 51, from the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case for a uniform tariff model in order to achieve an equivalent network tariff in the regional network and the central network for large consumers with a high service life. [[SFHB]] Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up its decision No. 405, 18 December 2015, when a total increase asked the government for a case that highlights the status of the stock of anadrome salmonids and how to strengthen the management and dissemination of knowledge in order to ensure sustainable development. The Government is requested to submit the matter to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for consideration not later than during the 1st half of 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e3282	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-11, 49 and 50, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests the phase out of fossil warming in all countries’ buildings by the given deadline, as there are always possible renewable and emission-free alternatives available.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a complementary strategy for increasing the use of hydrogen in the transport and industrial sectors, in which both analyses, targets and instruments are investigated. The strategy is presented as a matter of its own to the Stortinget in the spring of 2017.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asking the government to set up a public loading point for the 10th electric car in the 10 largest urban areas, by other 20 electric cars in the country, and a quick charging point for the 100th electric car.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use of the EEA Agreement space to ensure competitive framework conditions for new large investments in the climate-friendly industry in Norway, including guarantee schemes within the framework of the State aid legislation of the EEA Agreement.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan in cooperation with the social partners in order to ensure that the necessary maintenance is carried out, to reduce safety-critical maintenance kits and to ensure a high HMS standard on all activities carried out on a Norwegian base. The action plan shall also identify a clear strategy for the permanent study of wells on Norwegian pedestal, thus benefiting from free capacity in the rigging market. The action plan shall be submitted in the context of the revised national budget 2017.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the NVE to continue its plant department, which is an important input to best manage flood and step-by-step situations. It is assumed that preparedness will be increased as a result of an increasing need for social adaptations to floods and gliding.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the rights-based support scheme for an additional measure in households to housing and housing companies.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government within the EEA legislation to review the Enova Code and to support the introduction of new climate and environmental technologies and technology development, in order to establish the primary purpose of the aid in order to strengthen the R & D environment of Norwegian enterprises and communities of competence. Such support should also aim at reducing the risks arising from the early implementation of new environmental and climate technologies.’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Enova contributes to achieving the target of 10 TWh reduction in energy consumption in construction by 2030, compared to today’s energy consumption.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take into account in its further work on the CCS project that all three CCS projects mentioned in the budget for 2017 can be realised. [[This involves Norcem Cement Brevik, Yara's ammonia factory on Her Island and the recovery facility on Klemetsrud.]] Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the implementation of at least one CCS facility to help Norway achieve its national climate change target for 2020’.» Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start negotiations immediately with the transport industries with a view to establishing a CO 2 fund on the basis of the NO X fund model. The Fund shall cover the transport of goods and heavy goods. It shall also be assessed whether trucks, construction machinery, other mobile sources of road transport, as well as ships and fishing boats are to be included in such a fund. The Government is requested to assume that the scheme will enter into force as soon as possible, and no later than 1 January 2019, ESA notification given. The Government is requested to report the state budget status in 2018.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to deal urgently with Oslo Municipality’s application to increase toll rates through the bombing in the event of acute air pollution, so that it can be applied from 1 January 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e4937	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e5411	It's going to add up to A, III. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e5425	It is votated over other Roman numerals under A.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e7223	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9007	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9023	A total of 19 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 5, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 1 to 4 and 6 to 8, from Anette Trettebergsttuen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 9, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 10-17, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 18, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left proposal No 19 from Svein Harberg on behalf of the Family and Culture Committee As regards proposal No: 19, as the chairman of the committee stated in his statement, it was intended to replace VI in the vote as, in the event of an incursion, it has become the wrong amount in one of the tables. The proposal has been submitted after the deadline, but the President will, on the basis of that justification, propose that the Storting should nevertheless refer it to voting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendment to Section 12a of the Children’s Gardens Act, so that children who reach the age of one year by the end of December of the year in which they are applied for children’s playground are entitled to entry into the kindergarten from the age of one year in accordance with this Act with regulations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to initiate an evaluation of government policy towards the family protection offices to see if there is a link between tasks and resources.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked not to implement the conversion of the reimbursement scheme at a single price but to maintain the current regime.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests an increase in the parental leave ratio from 10 to 14 weeks’.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9085	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to initiate a revision of the 1999 Archive Act.» The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9104	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for 10 million to be set aside by the government. crowns within the scope of the instrument allocation for operating aid to cost-intensive installations of a unique national and international nature and providing functions for international events.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9123	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to reinstate the Collection Register/Investigation Control as permanent measures under Chapter. 315 entry 78 Miscellaneous fixed measures.’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to make the system of VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities regulated.» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9147	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a professional broadcaster in connection with the NRK, with a view to developing a new entity to have institutional prerequisites to conduct stable artistic activities in line with the professional orchestras.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9167	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10, 11 and 15, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make appropriate progress to the Storting to extend the period of leave following multiple births.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to make appropriate progress to the Storting on better support schemes for families with major care challenges’. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government requests the appropriate return to Stortinget with a plan to clarify the division of roles between public and private commercial providers in the field of child protection.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9196	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12-14, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the organisation Children’s Watch to expand its work to create good media habits in children’. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that public and private kindergartens are subject to equivalent requirements, including offering, quality, staffing, competence, content, opening hours, number of open weeks per year and common user surveys.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to bring an appropriate action to the Stortinget to terminate the possibility for private consultants/firms to pursue proceedings in the public child protection sector.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9225	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take action against the strong cost increase in the foster home area and to ensure that resources go to the children’s offerings.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9244	There is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked as part of consumer policy to work towards the introduction of requirements for the content declaration of alcoholic beverages.» The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e9263	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, if necessary by means of regulatory changes, to facilitate the loss of grantable urban newspapers as a result of the amendment to the Production Grant Regulation for news media, etc. in 2014, production grants shall be granted until the report of the Media Diversity Committee and its subsequent monitoring report have been completed.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e10905	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e11186	It shall be counted over II to V and VII. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e11200	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Family and Culture Committee. So the proposal replaces VI under A in the setting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e11324	Is the Greens going to vote against the Greens? [[(from the hall):]] I think we'll vote in favour if I get it right. If it is proposal No. 19 that replaces VI, we're going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e13005	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e13288	It is voted over point 3. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e13320	The centre party will also vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e13339	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e13356	As a result of voting under B, VI, paragraph 3, the recommendation for IX will lapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-14.ana.ud388e14805	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
