ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e26	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e29	On behalf of the representatives of Olaug V. Bollestad, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the treatment of children and young people who commit an assault.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e34	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e37	I am pleased to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Kjersti Toppe, Geir Pollestad and myself on VAT compensation for boarding schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e42	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e54	On Monday, the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State would meet Vidar Helgesen, Sylvi Listhaug and Per Sandberg for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e61	Last year more than 30 000 asylum seekers arrived in Norway. The majority of these are likely to stay in Norway. This means that it is a great task to ensure that they can learn Norwegian and become contributors to our society as soon as possible. The welfare and the social security network are built on our work. That is why it is so important that we succeed in the integration policy and the goal of everyone's involvement. There is hardly any other country that has better prospects for success than Norway. We have a good economy and a lot of resources, we have a way of organising society that is about giving opportunities to everyone, regardless of the starting point, and in the international context, Norway has achieved good results in integration policy. So the starting point is good. Nevertheless, there is a great job ahead of us, both because this year we are going to live around twice as many as before, and because we have to succeed better in getting all the groups of immigrants to work. Last weekend the media wrote that four out of ten Somalis are on social assistance. It's a problem. The Prime Minister stated that this could mean higher taxes. I believe that Norwegian society cannot accept that people who can contribute to the work life live on social assistance instead of wages. That is why we need an active integration policy, and I miss today's government. We need more and better Norwegian training, more homes and higher ambitions for immigrant women, and we need to equip the municipalities for the job they are going to do. The government's answer is to cut Norwegian training in reception, reduce the frames of the House Bank and maintain cash support, despite the fact that four out of ten cash beneficiaries have a migrant background. In addition, the local economy is weakened. The integration agreement contains six pages of measures that the Storting has ordered the government to follow up. I'm asking what the government is doing. We don't have a day to lose. Lack of action from the Right and the Advance Party may lead to more people becoming social clients instead of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e76	The President assumes that the question is to the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e79	There is no doubt that we are facing major integration challenges. In practice, we've never faced a task as big as what we're doing now. The reason for this is that Norway’s influx has been record high. Therefore, if this continues to happen, I think everyone will see that the Norwegian welfare model can come under very strong pressure. It was also party leader Jonas Gahr Støre at the cartel conference, who warned against threatening the Norwegian model of asylum and migration flows. That is why I fully agree with Mr Pedersen that we need to do more to succeed in good integration. That is why we are now working on providing an integration message for Stortinget. If we look at the outcome of the integration, 70 is pst. by men who have completed the introduction programme, either at work or during training. Unfortunately, the figure for women is lower. If we look at the differences between municipalities, they're also big. What we have to succeed in is lifting up the municipalities that don't get the good results – promise them good – so that together we get far better. I think this is much about our ability to see the individual human being, see what resources they have with them, and set up a race that is far more custom-made than what you might have done so far. In the introduction system, illiterates and people without work experience are placed in many places together with those with higher education and with long work experience into the same track. I don't think that's the way to go. Therefore, this is one of many issues that the government is going to address in the Communication on Integration. We strengthen the integration grant for municipalities, so that the economy is far better now than it has been for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e92	There are many measures we need to consider, and I am pleased that the Minister for Immigration and Integration says she will. But it is also the case that the Storting has reached an agreement, where there are many detailed measures – over six pages – that the government can only go ahead with; there is no need to wait for the integration message. This week the municipalities are assembled for county councils in Kristiansand, and the KS leader has said that requirement no. one from the municipalities of the government is that the municipalities must be financially able to receive refugees. Last year, we first felt that the Minister of Finance called on the municipalities not to settle refugees. Then the government invited them to do their best to settle refugees, and when you invite them to do their job, it's a good thing to meet yourself. Can local politicians now expect the government to join, and when can we expect the municipalities to have the financial clarifications imposed by the Stortinge government through the integration agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e101	So in the last three years, if we're counting on this year, we've been living more refugees than we've been doing in very many years, if ever, in Norway. We have set a new record every year, and this year Norwegian municipalities have agreed to settle for more than 15 000 people. I think that's incredibly good, and it shows that you want to be on this duel. So it's like, when it comes to the economy of the municipalities, we're going through it now. We have a computational sample that goes through the numbers, and there's the municipalities, and there's also the state. And we're going to talk to KS in the future to see what the economy is and what it needs. So it's like some municipalities do the integration shop, some municipalities are left with money on the bottom line because they're doing a fantastic job. Other municipalities are struggling, they are not succeeding, so this expenditure is going to be. What must be our goal is to make sure to raise those who are struggling, so that this becomes a store for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e110	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Christian Thinning Bjørnø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e113	There is agreement that work is the key to good integration, and to get refugees into work, each refugee needs competence monitoring to define what kind of service they need. Although there is agreement on that, it does not hold with beautiful words about competence to get people to work. You have to, as KS's county council requires in Requirement No. Two, let's go. In the fall, NOCUT gave clear notice that they could quickly initiate competence screening as long as they got enough money. But it happens a little bit. And in our alternative budget, we proposed to allocate money directly to both NOKUT and Vox, so that they could quickly start mapping. My question is, why is it still going so slowly, and how long is it really going to take before the government really starts monitoring refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e122	It is the case that the majority of those agreeing to the budget agree to set a figure of 7 million. kr for competence monitoring. We are now working on how best to use this money to do this work in a good, fast and efficient way. I fully agree that knowing more about the people who are coming, what experience they have, what education they have, what work experience, is absolutely necessary in order for us to be able to do what we can to stimulate them to get to work. That's one side of it. On the other hand, integrating into Norway requires a great deal of self-sufficiency. I think that if we have a starting point and we see what the individual is interested in, what the background is, and if we are able to help him on a track you want to take, it is also easier to generate the self-help that is absolutely necessary to be integrated into the Norwegian community. There is no joke about learning Norwegian, nor is it a joke to get into a completely different working life than many come from, and therefore competence monitoring is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e133	Geir Sigbjørn Tuscany – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e137	My opinion is that there is a lot of good integration work in many municipalities today, and many are ready to accept and integrate more refugees to help. But we see a special challenge in the case of lone minors and their settlement. It is a demanding situation that we have to address. It is a clear signal from municipalities that the Christian People's Party has been in contact with, that support for the settlement and integration of lone minor asylum seekers is at an too low level, so the municipalities may refuse to do so. It is therefore necessary to increase the reimbursement mechanism for child protection costs, preferably from the current 80 pst. to maybe 95 pst. of the costs. The Christian People's Party wants to make the municipalities financially capable of receiving children on the run and therefore supports such a promise for the benefit of children. Is it relevant for the government to increase the reimbursement scheme to 95 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e142	I fully agree that there are major challenges to the good integration of single minors. I met the police for a while. What they pointed out as one of the challenges is that many of these young people have enormous expectations when they come to Norway. Many will be lawyers, they will be doctors – they have great plans for the future. That's essentially very good. At the same time, we know that it's a demanding way to go to succeed in these dreams. This is why it is so important to focus on reality and to have a good integration process in municipalities to prevent, among other things. crime. With regard to the support for the municipalities, there is something we want to go into and look at. There's also how we're going to sit down with KS and see what costs are associated with different groups of immigrants, etc. So that's something we have to get back to in the ordinary budgets, and that's something that might also be mentioned in the integration message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e149	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e152	The manner in which the municipalities accept the refugees, whether as a host municipality or as a resident, is absolutely essential for good integration. We know that these tasks are underfunded. This has been demonstrated by the state's own investigations. When Stortinget made the additional appropriations for 2016 for the reception of refugees, the municipalities were granted very little. It has been stated by the Stortinget that it should be corrected, and in the integration agreement that the Stortinget has forwarded to the Government for follow-up, it is stated in Chapter 4: «The Government, in cooperation with the KS, shall provide an overview of the increased costs of the local government sector in relation to health, school, kindergarten and child protection, etc., and return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner and provide for a sound financial framework in which municipalities are compensated for their additional costs.» [[...]] What has the government done these two months after the agreement was concluded? Can the State Council confirm that KS has been contacted? Is the work on an overview of the real costs of municipalities well under way? And when can we expect to get this case to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e164	I've already had a meeting with the KS, because I'm very concerned that we're going to have a good cooperation on integration in the future. More than 15 000 people are to be settled this year. In the Calculations Committee, which looks at the costs of housing — and the large calculation — there are four people from the KS and four from the country, who are now going through these figures. In view of that, of course, it is natural for me to have a meeting with the KS and continue working with them to review what is going on, because we are very concerned about, for example, that. municipalities that have incurred exceptional expenditure shall be compensated for some of this. Therefore, some money is also distributed to municipalities that, for example, have large receptions, which have large expenses, to contribute to compensation for it. But it is clear that many municipalities have been under great pressure, and I will praise the efforts made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e171	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e174	In order to succeed in a good integration policy – and also with a good asylum policy – rapid clarification is one of the keys, both to those who should not be here and to those who should be here. If we say that no new ones are coming to Norway, there are now 20 946 applications for treatment, and until that, the Council of State has about. 1 100 case handlers. In January the 1 100 case handlers dealt with 430 applications. If we're going to continue at this rate, and no one else is coming, it will take over four years before we get a clarification for those who are now here. Is the Council of State satisfied with the pace of clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e181	The situation we had last autumn put our entire reception apparatus and our employees in the relevant directorates, etc. Under strong pressure, so I want to start by commending the employees, who worked far more than you could expect from them in the situation that arose. So it's like employing more people, but it's clear that it takes some time before the new employees are ready to start full production, because there's a training process to do. In the training process, employees who are normally in proceedings and contribute to it will also be the ones to train the new ones. But what's important to me is to make sure that there's now a good flow in this system, and that we take care of e.g.. that they are ready to settle for the municipalities. That is why we have said that we need to look at the balance between the rejection cases – those that are obviously groundless etc. – versus those to be granted, so we do not get into a situation where, for example. are not persons for the municipalities to settle. But it's a challenge. We're working on getting better, and then it'll take time because so many came last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e190	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e193	I have not yet met a single refugee who does not burn after contributing and recovering. It is time we looked at them as resources that come here, that will be – as the council says – doctors, lawyers, have dreams for the future. Then a few people must be allowed to root properly where one is to be integrated, and then the problem is that the tightening proposals proposed by the government is a recipe for poor integration. They refuse people to rot. Now the trade unions have picked up the government's tightening package bit by bit, exactly when it comes to this. So the Council of State says there's no joke learning Norwegian and integrating. No, that's not it. Nor is it a joke to be without his family and to live in insecurity when one has experienced war. Has the council tried to figure out what it could be like, even for a perfect refugee, when it may take ten years to have to live in the sleep and insecurity of his immediate family before he is allowed to be safe and can rot?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e200	Everyone sees that many of the people who come to Norway have great challenges, and travelling from their family I think everyone seems to be very difficult. At the same time, we in Norway have to make some choices. We need to think about what is sustainable immigration policy for the future, which ensures that we can provide protection, for example. to persons coming in the years to come. We will not do that if the influx to Norway becomes so large that it becomes difficult to deal with it. Therefore, tightening is absolutely necessary. I think it should be obvious that if you are going to bring your family to Norway, you are able to feed them, and you are integrated yourself, so that you can help the family when it comes, to be the same. So this is a point we follow up from the asylum agreement, too, where there was a desire to tighten up family reunification.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e212	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e215	My question is to the Council of State Listhaug. We are facing an extraordinary refugee situation that requires completely new political action. The Christian People's Party has contributed – and will continue to contribute – and hopes that the cross-political work can bring about both tightening and better integration. The Christian People's Party will be involved in securing the country's future and our good welfare arrangements. When the government came with 18 points before Christmas, we and the opposition took part constructively and expanded them to 64 points, which is then the Storting's will in this matter. When the Council of State put forward 40 tightening proposals in the Rome Christmas, many were surprised and disappointed. We were surprised because the government did not take a greater lead in the merger, and we were disappointed because many of the measures would inhibit integration. They will hit vulnerable children and are likely to run counter to international legal obligations, as pointed out by the government’s own UDI, SSB, Bufdir and IMDI trades, to name a few. The Christian People's Party is now committed to speeding up targeted action. We have expectations about that, and we want to contribute. Last week the Prime Minister expressed in text messages and letters that the government was on the offer page. There's been an invitation to a new meeting, and we're looking forward to that. The Christian People's Party is willing to engage in a dialogue to see if it is possible to find cross-political solutions, even though some of the proposals to date appear unacceptable. We have expectations, we want to participate, and we will arrive at a result that is in the best interests of the country to secure the future. Does the Council of State wish to reach a broad consensus? And does the Council of State have the will to review and perhaps create proposals that come to other parties, at an early stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e232	There is no doubt that the need for tightening up is as great now as it was when several lots made a wide settlement before Christmas. Looking at the influx to Europe, it came in January last year from Turkey to Greece – the figure this year is 60,000. It points to the fact that we can face a huge challenge during this year, because it is expected to meet twice as many asylum seekers in Europe. I'm very happy that the Christian People's Party wants to contribute to tightening up, that you're on the offer page there. I also want to be, but I think it is absolutely necessary that the constraints we finally agree on are sufficient to meet the challenge we face. To take the example of single minors: there are many dilemmas about that case. What's our main starting point is that in most cases the best thing for the child will be to be with his family. What is happening today is that families pay human traffickers to take young family members across the world – put them at risk. Some children are killed, they are subjected to violence, they are subjected to abuse, and I believe it is a responsibility to look at what changes can be made to the law to help stop it, or at least to reduce it. We now see that Sweden has enormous challenges. There's a lot of newspaper headlines about how they're dealing with these challenges there. Last year, 33 000 lone minors came to Sweden. This is a dilemma, but I think it's absolutely necessary, also for the children, that we look at how we can tighten up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e243	The Christian People's Party is well aware of the situation and the seriousness of it. That's why we're on the road to fighting for both humanity and children's best in this, while we see that new measures are absolutely necessary. In particular, however, we are responding to the proposal that single minors should only stay temporarily until they reach the age of 18. The proposal has been strongly criticised, and it has been pointed out that it may be based on false factual evidence. I can draw up the situation they experience when they have come, however and for whatever reason. It is important that we make sure that they feel safe and secure. We know they can have mental problems. It may make integration more difficult and may be demanding for foster parents and institutions, and it may also lead to the disappearance of several children from reception. There are even some who believe that this could be contrary to the Children’s Convention. Is the Council of State on the supply side in changing exactly that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e250	Now we're going to go through the hearing opinions, and we're going to have talks with the parties that were part of the conciliation, before we're going to promote what we think is absolutely necessary tightening up. In the case of the children, we think there are many dilemmas here. I believe that the journey these people are going through also helps to give them mental problems. We know that children are being killed, we know that they are in the hands of human traffickers, that they are subjected to violence and abuse. Especially girls, of whom there are few, experience very difficult relationships. So I think it is absolutely necessary that we look at how we can contribute to these children being with their family, rather than being sent out in the way that is today. They also experience a strong pressure when they are here, because the family expects them to send money back home. So they're under pressure from many different teams. I see the dilemma, and I think it is necessary to look at what measures can be taken to limit the flow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e255	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e258	In a chronicle of the NRK Opinion of 10 February, the Council of State wrote that she was ‘in the process of producing facts in the debate’. That's good. Nevertheless, the hearing bodies point out that the government’s draft consultation on restrictions contains misrepresentation of facts, misuse of case law and unfounded claims. The SSB points out that the statistics on family reunification for lone minor asylum seekers do not argue that children have been sent here as so-called anchor children, and UNICEF even sent letters of complaint to the ministry because they believed that their report was misused by the ministry. Such criticism of the factual basis of the draft law is an unusually strong diet, and my question is: does it impress upon the Council of State, and will she correct this and modify the proposals that have been promoted on the wrong basis, when she submits the matter to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e265	Of course, we will review the hearing opinions in a thorough and good way. What was in the draft consultation on the SSB figures was that there could be a double. It has not been so far, but the number of family reunions is also about which groups come to Norway. Somalis, for example, have family reunification to a greater extent than some other groups have. So it's like when I talk about reports – I also think the representative Bekkevold knows that it can be difficult when you get an interview, talking half an hour about a report. You're going to be pretty fast, and you're going to take the points that you think are important. What about anchor kids is in that report. We also know that some children in Norway have got their family here, they have been sent to Norway and have been given family reunification, so this is happening today. But what's our main point about the children is that we have to try to limit the influx, because of the best of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e272	Eirin Sund - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e275	I want to follow up on the questions asked by the representative Bekkevold. I hear the Council of State say that in the context of the consultation round which has now been on the 40 proposals, one should go through this and look at it carefully. Nevertheless, many of the hearing bodies have pointed out a number of challenges in the government's proposals, both the lack of evidence and the lack of impact assessment, both in the field of international law and in the field of child care, and it is not least a major question mark as to whether several of the proposals you make are practicable. Of course, we expect the government to respond to this criticism. But the question is: Will the government make a thorough assessment of the proposals with which the government finally chooses to come to the Grand Duchy, where these challenges and objections, which are very clear from the hearing bodies, will be addressed? I do not feel that the Council of State is responding to the representative, Bekkevård.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e280	What the government will bring to the Stortinget is what we're going to think is necessary tightening up to meet a situation where we can get a very large asylum influx to Norway. What is the task of politicians and governments is to think for the long term on behalf of the country, to ensure that we have a sustainable immigration policy that enables us to take care of the institution of asylum over time, that we have money left to help those who are in the neighbourhoods of war and poverty, and to have a welfare model for the future. There are elements that one in many of these consultation opinions does not take into account because they address individual elements. Then, of course, the hearing opinions will be thoroughly reviewed before the government comes back and submits a case to the Stortinget. And when the Storting gets it presented, you get plenty of time to go into these proposals and look at the final evaluations that the government is making.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e288	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e291	Siv Jensen called for the boycott of settlement. Erna Solberg boasted very much of the local authorities' work at the KS-Conference – very justifiable boasts – but it is still possible to be confused by what the government has actually intended to do in terms of following up these agreements. Refugee children are a central chapter of the Stockholm Integration Agreement. One of the booking points concerns child protection measures for lone minors. The municipalities are losing their lives to lonely minors, and the biggest challenge now is that there are too many lonely minors in line because the municipalities do not dare to settle. The integration agreement requests that the reimbursement scheme for child protection measures be reviewed together with the KS and states that it should take place quickly. Then my question is, how is this point followed up by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e298	When it comes to housing, I think there's no need to be confused. It's just looking at the results that this government has delivered here, year after year. We've set records for the three years that we've now run. This year we're going to set a deciduous record, with over 15,000 settlements. It's about that we've arranged to get it done, and it's about municipalities that set up and want to be part of the work that is now necessary. In the case of single minors under 15 years of age, there is a responsibility under the Council of State Horne, but it is clear that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion also works on these issues, looks at the different funding models and will also be in contact with the KS related to these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e305	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e308	After these rounds, week after week, one can wonder how long the conciliators are going to find out that we have a government that keeps them fooled in the way they have done, and what they've actually done. SV has thankfully stood outside of this. The Councils of State are committed to maintaining the institution of asylum but have, in reality, submitted proposals to the institution of asylum for the Norwegian part. In addition, there are a number of factual errors, both with numbers and with references. This is about family reunification, about who is coming, and this is about anchor children, where information from other agencies is being misused to scare a majority of proposals for which only the Progress Party has so far been in favour. I have to ask the Council of State once again: how does the Council of State feel that integration should be facilitated when you have to wait ten years for your family, and to be informed that you are safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e315	Fortunately, there was a broad agreement on the Stortingen that took reality into account, which saw that the influx that came to Norway last year in the autumn was not sustainable over time. That is why a responsibility was taken into account in this Chamber. I record that SV stood outside the agreement, and then you can wonder if SV is comfortable with the situation that was last autumn, should continue – they about it. What I think is important when it comes to integrating is that you have incentives, that you make demands for those to integrate. I believe that too many people will find it motivating to know that if I do a good job of learning Norwegian, get to work quickly, I can actually get my family to Norway, or I can get a permanent stay if I am temporary in the period required.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e322	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e325	For the sake of variation, my question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Yesterday the NRK had a Focal Point programme where one of the conclusions was that more of Norwegian food production should be pasture-based instead of power-feed-based. It would be an interesting development if we could have made better use of our outcrops. The main obstacles to this today are Norwegian predatory policy. The Government does not follow the objective of the agreement on predatory animals to allow both the holding of predators and the simultaneous use of grazing throughout the country. This means that in area by area, a now ends with livestock because it is not proper to keep animals on pasture. This applies in Hedmark, which is the case in Nord-Trøndelag and in South-Trøndelag, which is the case in North Norway, and it applies in mountain regions in South Norway. There is a sad development for more environmentally friendly agriculture and also for District Norway. In a statement from the annual meeting in Hedmark Right on the weekend, frustration emerges very well, and I allow myself to quote: ‘Rights are properly used as a core value. Respect for individuals and property rights are strong ideological tabs. These core values have had to give way to a policy that lacks credibility and is very conflict-making.’ The centre party did not agree with the opinion. Today's policy creates major conflicts. Time and again, the Central Party has proposed measures in Stortinget that could give us another predatory policy, and our surprise has been great that the Right in Government seems to have forgotten everything in the party program, and everything they said before they came into government. Hedmark Right now requires that future stocking targets for wolves be set as two-three revirs, and they also believe that the subject-matter given to the government on this issue is a ‘mack’, which Gunnar Gundersen’s representative has so lyrically stated. Do the Councils have a point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e341	I am not going to have any views on what is in the category of lyrical and not lyrical and not, but I am going to state that this government is pursuing a predatory game policy that is consistent with the predatory game agreement, which is in line with the international obligations of the Berne Convention, and which is in accordance with the Nature Diversity Act. We have more than the previous government opened for the harvesting of predators that could be a risk of damage at the front of the grazing season. We have given clear signals that the predatory game management must have a high level of preparedness both before and during the grazing season to ensure that the necessary take-offs are implemented. We have told the administration to conduct a clearer zone management that separates predators and grazing animals in time and space. This will lead to reduced losses, and has resulted in reduced losses, for the number of livestock replaced as taken by predatory game, was historically low in 2015, 14 pst. lower than the previous year and reduced by nearly 50 pst. in the last 10 years. This is a field of strong emotions and strong views. It is therefore important that we stick to the predatory settlement. It is important that we work for the continuation of a broad consensus on predator management. If the Center Party chooses to stand outside of it, it's not something we want, but we're going to have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e350	The center part is completely behind the predatory game agreement, but today's predatory game settlement is not followed up. The problem is also that the wolf management is not regulated in today’s prey settlement. That was the part that remained, and that we have now waited for winter and spring for the government to come with a big message about. If they come with that big message, they also know that they can have a majority in this room together with the Center Party. I understand the answer that the Council of State does not share the concern of the representatives of Gundersen and Hedmark Right in this matter, and that is a fact that should worry all the Right People out in the districts. The frustration that is now being expressed is simply being swept away by the Right in Oslo. It is quite strong when the Vice-Chair of the Business Committee calls the subject-matter of the wolf ‘a matchmaker’, and is it this subject-matter that Gunnar Gundersen calls ‘a matchmaker’, on which the government intends to base its announced report on wolf policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e359	We take as a starting point what lies in the predatory game agreement, namely the reassessment of the stock target for wolves and an evaluation of the wolf zone. It is on the basis that a technical basis has been established. Consultations and information meetings with interested interests have also been carried out, and our ambition is that the Storting should be able to start handling a case on stocking targets and assessment of the wolf zone as soon as possible. We have had rounds with the parties on Stortinget – and there have been rounds within the parties on Stortinget – and we are well aware of and take on the greatest seriousness of the concerns that exist, not least in Hedmark, but it is also that we have international obligations. It is our responsibility to present a balanced policy that takes account of different interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e367	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e370	The centre batch has raised the question of predatory management many times. There must be some changes in predatory policies. Current policies do not take too little account of grazing industry and of the need for agricultural policies to implement land use. The Central Party believes that the Yews Act is too ineffective and that something must be done with the fact that we have been far above the target for several years. We believe that the quota for the killing of bears, set by the Environment Directorate, needs to be taken out 100 pst. and that the licence hunt needs to be better implemented. In the news yesterday, it turned out that there have never been as many wolfevir registered as now. There are wolf coal in at least six helnorphic reviruses and in four border reviruses. It provides the basis for a new wolf policy with licence hunting. The centre party wishes to receive a wolf rating, which may provide the basis for a new wolf management. And we've been waiting a long time for it to come. It's urgent. Can the Council of State confirm the early Easter of a major report on the management of wolves, so that the Stortinge may discuss this matter before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e377	To answer that question, I can confirm that we are working to file a case as soon as possible and hopefully before Easter. I would also like to say that I agree with the need to streamline the licensing of yours, and there we have also taken action. I am also concerned about stressing that the report published by Rovdata is an interim stock report – the one to which the representative refers and which was mentioned yesterday. The final report will be available on 1 June, which is why we should be a little cautious about making policies based on these provisional figures. They also show a wolf population exactly on the stock of three heroic juveniles within the wolf zone, while we actually know that one of these juveniles is no longer intact. So it's important that we wait for the final numbers before we draw conclusions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e384	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e387	The representative Arnstad referred to Hedmark Højre’s annual meeting this weekend, which adopted an opinion entitled ‘The wolf and the forest under the lupen’, requiring the repeal of the wolf zone and almost not having a wolf in Norway, and they are going to a very serious attack on the Berne Convention. According to Hamar Arbeiderblad on Saturday, Mr Gunnar Gundersen said two things to the annual meeting. He said, "Wood is not just wolf" – okay. And then he said, "This is the resolution I need to take the fight centrally." Based on the Government's replies here today, it seems that the positions of Hedmark Right are not representative of the government and the Council of State. Do I understand correctly that the Council of State is standing here today and is taking a break from Hedmark Right and can confirm that Gunnar Gundersen has lost the fight centrally?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e394	It is our desire to achieve a settlement in the Great Britain on the continued policy of robbery. It is our wish that that policy should comply with the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. And it's our starting point that if you're going to get a deal, you have to have a wide process. Then the starting values for the discussion must be clear, and it is quite clear from Hedmark Right that they have been ready with their starting and input values in that discussion. I have a lot of respect for it. Democracy is a beautiful thing, and we're going to take with us those points of view in the same way as we take with us other points of view that belong to this discussion, whether it's about views on and interpretation of our international obligations, or it's about other points of view – even in Hedmark and other states where this arouses strong feelings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e399	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e402	These things are always a little amazing. In the Center Party you are concerned when you are above the stock targets, in the Left we are more concerned when you are below the stock targets, as it is too gloat. Wolves were below the stock targets last year, probably we're over this year, and that's good. I would like to address a little of the basic premise in the question from the representative Arnstad, who was on the basis of a programme yesterday that we do not use pasture in Norway because of predatory policies. I think to a large extent that the fact that we do not have so much outback in Norway is much more closely related to the agricultural policy we are pursuing, and that there is a good place for more environmentally friendly agriculture while at the same time caring for the large predators, although there are also conflicts. I would like to ask about the assessment of the Council of State: does he agree that we can have a more environmentally friendly agriculture – to make more use of outlanding, which can also stop regrowing in Norway – while at the same time achieving the objectives of predatory policies for the large predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e411	I agree that we can and should have more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly agriculture. I agree that we can do that at the same time as we achieve the objectives of the predatory game agreement. And I believe that this government has done just that, because we have been more concerned with and to a greater extent than the previous government has opened for the withdrawal of predators that could pose a risk of harm, prior to the grazing season. We are concerned that the grazing season should be disrupted as much as possible. We have informed the flight crew to have a high level of preparedness in this way. It shows that different considerations can be taken into account in this important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e416	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e419	This question is also addressed to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Should a single party and big-time representatives, even a so-called responsible state council, seriously, right it out as if an extraordinary refugee inflection of a few thousand more than in a normal situation is the greatest trick and the biggest problem we face as a nation and a world citizen. I feel confident that the Council of State Helgesen has agreed with me and the Left that the climate problem unfortunately has quite different dimensions with which to reduce future generations' freedom, both in Norway and in the rest of the world. The climate crisis can still help to strengthen migration needs significantly if we are not in a position to resolve it. Fortunately, Norway not only has good intentions to go ahead and be a heavy player to ensure that the world solves the climate problem, but done in the right way also provides a solid basis for economic development, new jobs and green growth. Today's good news that Hydro has pressed the start button of the aluminium technology pilot on Karmøy is a prime example of the longest-running industry. Perhaps the strongest policy incentive we have for strengthening development is the targeted use of taxes and charges and strict climate and environmental requirements in public supply and concessional conditions. Creating markets for green solutions is crucial to exploiting the potential and increasing the competitiveness of its own industry and technology development environment on world markets. The question to the Council of State is: what ambitions and concrete initiatives will he take in such a way? With the Left as a constructive driver and a cooperative party, the state councils have the possibility of not only implementing the Left policy, but also being themselves a heavy provider of premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e433	I thank you for the question, and I would like to begin by fully agreeing that, through four-party cooperation – between the government parties and the two cooperation parties – we get to much, get more in climate policy than has been the case under previous governments, and that we continue and continue our ambitions to do even more. One expression of this was mentioned by the representative, namely tax policy. We have a clear joint declaration from the budgetary unit last autumn on a green tax reform, which it is now working on. We are also – as the representative Breivik – concerned that green change, building green competitiveness, is important for Norway. We are in a transition that is partly a short-term adaptation to lower oil prices, but which is also a long-term, deep, broad and fundamental transformation of the Norwegian economy into a low-carbon society. Then we also need to think through how to build the green competitiveness for the future. That is why we have set up an expert committee, with Connie Hedegaard and Idar Kreutzer, to promote a proposal for such a strategy. That proposal comes to the harvest, and that's something we put great emphasis on. During the spring, we will organise migration conferences as part of the process of putting green competitiveness on the agenda, while recently launching proposals for a new law on public acquisitions, where we are making stricter demands on public enterprises to have a well-thought-out purchasing practice, promoting climate and environmental solutions. There's something business has been asking for, and that's what they're now going to get, using the option of 462 billion. kr in public procurement annually yields for innovation actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e442	Thanks for the answer from the Minister, but a little bit more concrete: In the last few weeks, I have visited a good part of the supplier industry in the West – a fantastic people, the Westerners: Despite the fact that the companies are in the worst crisis in their lives, it is not crisis maximisation they are concerned with communicating, but possibilities. One can e.g. achieve large emission reductions, new value creation, by using already available environmental technologies. But missing demand for low and zero emission technologies, e.g. the sea-based industry, once again due to the absence of requirements from the authorities of concession owners and operators, is a major obstacle and paradox. The fact that the red-green government did not impose stricter environmental and climate requirements on the entire value chain, including this type of logistic cup gifts, and saw that there is good industrial policy, today's government cannot be charged for. But the government and the state councils now have all the possibilities to impose stricter environmental and climate requirements on the concessions on Norwegian soil, and the question is short and well whether the state council will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e447	I cannot now say specifically what we are planning, and what we will do in that area, but that stricter environmental and climate requirements are in an ongoing development where no sectors will be able to hide away, there is no doubt. That is also part of the reason why, when we think about the follow-up to the Paris Agreement and the higher levels of ambition that it imposes on us, not least with this five-year cycle of increasingly stringent environmental requirements, we match it with a strong commitment to climate technology. These are the solutions that lie in the development of new technologies, which will significantly reduce emissions, and that is why we have a record bet in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e452	It opens for follow-up questions – first Pål Farstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e455	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. During the last year, as part of the green shift, we have focused on opportunities and demands for a bet on electrically driven boats, ferries, among other things, which are to provide work for the web, the supplier industry, etc. Last August, as far as I know, the world's first alsar came on the water. This fishing boat shows that it is technically possible to reduce the CO2 emissions to which we are obliged, while new technology can make the fishing fleet more profitable. In the Fisherman's magazine, we see that the Minister for Fisheries has been on his way with the elsarch. The skipper on board wanted better framework conditions for fishermen who chose an electric boat. Based on the opinions referred to, the Minister for Fisheries was not particularly enthusiastic about the new technology. My question is whether there is a proper picture of the Minister for Fisheries and a proper view of electric scarves presented there, or is it such that the Council of State has thoughts about carrots and measures to stimulate the reduction of discharges from fishing boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e465	I thought I gave a strong expression of great enthusiasm when I was in this amber. It was very impressive. But it's still just going to be a supplement, because such a elsark can only be used for fishing purposes. It cannot be used in and out. But there is no doubt that in this case the consumption of diesel was significantly reduced. If you want more of this, and new technology is on the table, it's also in the government's overall platform to put in place new technologies, new jobs, innovation, etc. There's a bonus scheme there today. I don't intend to remove it in any way, nor does the government. Then it just becomes a question of whether to continue or reinforce these types of arrangements by providing carrots to get more vessels out of this calibre at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e470	Per Rune Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e473	My follow-up question goes to the Environment Minister, Helgesen. It's good to hear that there's a lot of thinking about the green shift and how to move on to get the emission reductions in Norway. The thing is, this is urgent. We have now received indications from the government that we will not have an agreement on how Norway's role in the EU's climate framework will be, until 2017, and we will cut by 40 pst. in the non-quota sector by 2030. That means we're in a hurry. We also have great opportunities now because of the availability of capacity in the shipbuilding sector, including, for example, large parts of industry, which are used to strict environmental requirements, such as: in the petroleum sector, provide work and technological development for the Norwegian industry. How does the Minister for Climate and Environment view the time aspect of this? If we're going to be able to get to those emission reductions by 2030, it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e484	I am pleased with the impatience signaled by the Workers' Party. We share that impatience, yes we must say that we are overfulfilling the impatience, because we have delivered, together with our cooperation parties, considerably more in climate policy than our predecessors did. Then we are going to have negotiations and talks with the EU on the 2030 targets. This applies from 2020 onwards. EU policy processes are underway this year. Our agreement with the EU may not be in place this year, but EU policy will be developed this year. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that we are in those processes, because that is where the substance is determined. This applies, inter alia, to: the distribution of inputs and issues relating to the role of forests. So this is a ball we're at already. I'm also going to ask the Grand President to make a statement about the follow-up of Paris to the Stortinget to involve Stortinget in that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e493	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e496	Environmental requirements are important, but there is also green innovation. From a longer time perspective, we might say that Norway, as a petroleum producer, has been somewhat backward in terms of investing in new renewable energy sources. The downtime of the oil industry changed that picture. Not only is it necessary to achieve climate targets, it is also reasonable to use the brain power and peak competence that become available due to scarcer times for the oil industry. This is, to a large extent, competence that is also needed to develop, among other things. offshore wind, wave power and tidal power. A year and a half ago, the State Road Administration launched interesting ideas on emission-free E39, where the production of new renewable energy can be integrated into the major fjord-crossing projects to make the E39 ferry-free. It is obvious that the available capacity and competence in the maritime and petroleum sectors have direct transfer value if Norway chooses to go for this new cutting-edge technology. Does the Council of State think that the government is offensive enough on this part of the green shift? And is there contact between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport on emission-free E39?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e504	There is a lot of contact between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I don't think it's a know-how in the realm, and not least barely a route, which is not in contact with it, because the transport sector is the biggest challenge when we see where we have to take a big cut in the years to come. We are also working on a new national transport plan, where we will need to take new action for emission reductions. So, when it comes to stimulating innovation in the transport sector, whether it's on land or it's green shipping, one of the measures we've launched this year is just the increased public procurement requirements, because the purchasing power of the public – and the volume of public procurement – is so big that it can have a significant impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e511	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e514	The government statement says a few things that I find interesting to read. It says, among other things. that the government will: ‘Elaborate requirements that all new public vehicles, and all new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains, use low or zero emission technologies when the technology so requires.’ The second thing is: ‘Make sure that the public sector as a customer contributes to the deployment and development of new environmental and climate-friendly technologies and solutions.’ Now the government has submitted a law on public acquisitions that is weak in this field. While the Post is at the front and has zero emissions in all its transport services, the State is not in the vicinity of setting zero emissions requirements in all its transport practices. While the state says that it should contribute to the development of new technologies, private companies – Asko – are moving ahead and using first-time cars and hydrogen trucks. Why will the government not require all transport services performed to and by the public to have zero emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e529	The weakness that the representative Holmås believes to observe must well be based on the law on public acquisitions that is now in force, and not on the basis of the bill we have proposed, where we are tightening the requirements not only to cross a box to take account of the environment and climate in each acquisition, but to have a public procurement practice in mind to promote climate and environmental solutions. We also reintroduce the appeal procedure, as the red-green government has removed, which means that you will be able to enforce this new provision more clearly and more strongly than is the case today. So I do not at all agree that this is a sloppy draft of the law. This is a legislative proposal that imposes more stringent requirements for having a thoughtful policy and strategy in public enterprises to use the purchasing power to promote innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e534	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e537	The Minister for Climate and Environment can only stand still. Two decisions from the Paris climate agreement are impossible to misunderstand. One is that the country’s climate commitments are not close enough to reach the 2°C target, much less the 1.5°C target, so all countries have to go home and step up their commitments. The second is that cutting by 2020 is important and makes it easier to stop dangerous global warming. Now the previous climate minister, who agreed to adopt this, went off, probably because she realized how difficult it would be to get through in her own government for this. But Helgesen has taken over, and even though he didn't exactly come to the table, he might have been expected to have said that we have to do in Norway as we have asked all the other world's countries do. But have we heard? No, no, no. So far, the answer is no tightening of emission requirements until 2020, and as he said to the Evening Post on issues about emissions going down the next two years: I'm going to be careful to promise anything at all. 2013 to 2020, that's seven years. So Vidar Helgesen's government is unable to promise a policy that cuts emissions towards what the Stortinget has adopted during the seven years he has from the government's takeover. It's not an implementation force, it's a gastric plaque. The oil industry is the sector that emits the most greenhouse gases in this country. The oil industry has almost doubled its emissions since 1990 and is also expected to increase in 2015. That is why I ask the Minister for Climate and Environment the following questions: Can he mention one proposal from the government – not a proposal from the SV, the Christian People's Party, the Left or the other opposition parties – that significantly cuts the emissions of the sector that emits the most, namely the oil industry, or mention a proposal that comes? It's a suggestion!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e548	To start with, the oil sector is part of the EU ETS and the oil sector is subject to CO2 taxes. Last year we put on the table an ambitious 2030 objective of common compliance with the EU, which will also mean a strengthened quota system and thus also reinforced requirements for the oil and gas sectors. Moreover, the projections from the Environment Directorate raise doubts as to whether there will be a reduction in emissions, whether it would have been in 2015 and 2016, and that is the background for me to be honest and say that I cannot promise that emissions will fall last year or that they will fall this year. But what I can promise, and what the government is working hard for – together with our partners – is a more active climate policy, a more offensive climate policy, where the measures we are putting in place have an effect. Then there are other things, measures and decisions that are far behind in time, such as: manages the annual level of emissions from the oil and gas sectors. You're assuming that they're going to increase slightly more in the next few years, and then start decreasing. So when we're going to follow up the Paris Agreement and get back to Stortinget with our plans for its follow-up, we're going to do it in cooperation with the EU because we're in that process now. The Paris agreement will mean increased demands, increased ambitions. How it will be, it's too early to say anything about now. That discussion is also taking place with our friends in the EU and among EU Member States, and therefore I will be allowed to come back to the Storting, hopefully in a presentation on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e558	I'm going to cancel that answer – not one proposal that says anything about what they've done in the oil sector, not one proposal that points forward, not something that works before 2020, just loosely chatting in 2030. We can probably conclude that it is unlikely that Helgesen is then the climate minister. Let me therefore ask questions about the transport sector instead. The Minister of Transport is going around saying that it is no problem to build more motorways, as the government does, because in the future all cars will be zero-emission cars. Then I ask the Council of State the following questions: Can he give an example of one significant change in the car and fuel charges that the government has promoted – not imposed by the SV, the Christian People's Party, the Left or any of the other opposition parties, the Workers' Party and the others – one proposal that implies that all new cars in the future will be zero-emission cars, or a proposal that comes? It's a suggestion!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e565	As far as car charges are concerned, we have an agreement between the cooperation parties on their arrangements, and we also have an agreement that we should follow up the Green Tax Commission. It is natural to see the charges in full, and therefore it is natural to also look at the car charges in this context. That work is under way in view of the 2017 budget. At the same time, we are overcomplying with the national transport level in the collective sector; we are doing relatively more on rail than what we have done on the road; we are strengthening state support for urban environmental agreements and local collective development, so it is completely misleading to claim that we are not doing anything on our own. On the contrary, it is difficult to conclude that this government has a significantly more forward-looking climate policy than our predecessors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e572	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Siv Elin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e575	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. In the process of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the red-green government introduced the Enterprise NOx fund, which has cut greenhouse gas emissions significantly, but the job is far from complete. The climate agreement signed by the Minister for the Environment in Paris requires Norway to control zero emissions in all parts of society if we are to take the agreement and the climate noise seriously. Can the Council of State mention one significant step taken by the Government or which the Council of State itself wants to work to put in place to cut greenhouse gas emissions from the fishing fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e588	Now, of course, the NOx fund is not under my responsibility, but I register when I am travelling now, that the industry is very satisfied with this, and there have been many measures that have reduced emissions – which the representative points out quite correctly. Further development of this NOx fund, I think I'm leaving to the appropriate Council of State to decide in relation to the work of the government, but I would point out that there are a number of other things happening in my industry that are in the right direction environmentally and climate-friendly. The replacement of the vessel is very positive out there now. It has to do with the arrangement and inclusion of vessel sizes, which gives an additional speed in terms of replacing with modern vessels which have significantly lower emissions than those which may have existed over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e601	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e604	My question goes to Vidar Helgesen. He said he was busy being honest, and we heard that right in the exchange of words that was now, when he was asked if he could give a single example of the initiative this government has taken within the major sources of emissions, and the answer was: No, he couldn't. It's possible it's a very honest answer, but it's not very impressive. Just as little impressive is seeing the initiatives that the Council of State is talking about for the future. The only big posting the minister has had for the two months he has been sitting is that he has gone out in the evening post and said that he cannot guarantee that he will conduct a policy that will provide emission reductions during the rest of the government period. It is too defensive for the Council of State to reduce emissions and to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement reached by the Storting, but not least it will be the recipe for us not to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. My question to the Council of State is whether he agrees that the objectives of the Paris Agreement will not be achieved if governments around the world respond as he does, that within four years a government will not be able to reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e611	We are in dialogue with governments around the world, we, on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement, not least because Norway was in favour and led the group that made proposals in Paris and was adopted a higher level of ambition and the requirement that the level of ambition should be increased every five years. In the dialogue we have with other governments, it's working very hard, and it's not just working hard there, but it's working hard in the research community because they haven't really researched what 1.5 degree ambition means, because it's a whole new ambition – you've been researching the 2 degree goal. So there is a lot that remains – there is actually a lot of serious work that remains before we can answer concretely what is required. As we do, we continue to work to strengthen climate policy. It also applies to the transport sector, as I said, with the strengthening of public transport. And since, among other things, make itself high and dark about the lack of ambition of this government, I just have to say that we are not going to add up to make it more attractive to drive a diesel car, for example, as our predecessors did.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e616	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e619	Former Minister for Climate and Environment, Tine Sundtoft, made exemplary efforts in the fight to achieve a new climate agreement in Paris last autumn, and now it is important to ensure that those objectives continue to be met. But we see that there are representatives of the government travelling to the EU to lobby Norwegian gas and reduce the targets for EU emissions cuts. Analyses have been carried out to show that if the EU increases its energy efficiency target – today it is 27 pst. – to 30 p.m., the need for Norwegian gas will be significantly reduced. But the Council of State is responsible for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Council of State wants the EU to have more ambitious targets, i.e. to increase its energy efficiency target from 27 p.m. in 2030 to 30 pst. Or even more in 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e624	It is this way that the EU, like Norway and in the same way as all countries that have agreed on the Paris Agreement, must increase its ambition in the future, and that is a discussion that we take and that the EU takes. It is also the case that the EU in its work on greening and reducing emissions sees that gas from Norway and elsewhere is a contribution to the replacement of more polluting fossil fuels, not least coal. That is why, among other things: in a letter from the Minister of Oil and Energy, the Minister of Europe and myself to the EU, stated that Norwegian gas could be an important contribution to supporting precisely these objectives. Norway is not part of the EU's renewable and energy efficiency targets, but we support their inclusion, and we point to Norwegian gas as a contribution to achieving those objectives and to strengthening the ambitions of the EU's climate policy towards 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e629	Climate follow-up means strict requirements, but it also means a significant opportunity for green growth. And as many people have been in the line exchange so far, we now have a situation where we want to have capacity in the economy just to that transition to green growth. This means starting at the right end, green growth in Norway cannot necessarily be negotiated in the EU. It is clear that when one is in a situation where one has a risk that instead of setting full speed on the electrification of the railway may light up to the competitive outsourcing based on diesel locomotives, it is beginning at the wrong end. When a rib Statskog for the investment in renewable energy, it's starting at the wrong end. When one picks away 5 billion. kr from Statkraft, it is beginning at wrong end in relation to green growth and green conversion. So my question is, how will the government equip the big state locomotives on the industrial side to also contribute to green conversion and green growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e634	The work on green growth, the work on green conversion, the work on building green competitiveness are very high on the government's agenda. That's why we've set up an expert committee to design proposals for a national green competitiveness strategy, precisely because we're in a transition that's more than a fall in the oil price. It is a journey to the low-emission society. Then it's important that we do the right things, and it's important that we do them quickly, but it's also important that we do them carefully. And in that picture, a number of measures that may not initially be seen as climate action are also very important. Our spending so much on research and development and research and innovation is a contribution to the green shift. Making Norway more attractive for investment will also make it easier to invest and raise risk capital for the bud-shooters, for the companies that will lead the green shift. So here's a lot of strong government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e639	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e642	The representative Holmås was very concerned about who suggested. In the Left, we're probably more concerned with what is actually adopted, and there's no doubt that we now have a majority on the Storting that has a completely different pace in climate policy than it has been in the past. But Holmås has an important point, and that's that we have a 2020 target that we're not near to reach. The most important thing we do towards the 2030 climate objectives and the Paris agreement is, of course, to achieve the 2020 targets, and we have little time. It is difficult to see other strong instruments that give an effect quickly, rather than using green taxes and taxes and linking them with a solid green tax shift. Then my question is: does the Council see other instruments that can bring about rapid reductions, rather than just applying green taxes and a proper green tax shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e648	I agree with Elvesuen that a green tax shift, the use of tax policy, is an important contribution, but it is clear that it is also essential to speed up the development of technology, and this is linked. The more attractive it becomes to invest in green technology development, the more attractive it is to make money on green technology development, also because of the tax system, the better climate performance we get. However, there are also measures, for example: what we agreed with our cooperation parties, sales requirements for biofuels. This is an example of something that will have meaning in the transport sector. When we look at both the 2020 targets and the 2030 targets, there is no doubt that the transport sector is where we have a very big job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e653	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e656	The Minister for Climate and Environment could remain standing, because my question goes to him too. We've heard during this questioning that they get a lot in climate policy. We have also heard that the Minister for Climate and Environment is overcoming climate impatience – strong words. What is worrying is that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is unable to mention one concrete measure that the government on its own initiative has promoted for the Storting to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It's not a substantiation that a sheep is too much in climate policy. Nor is it an answer to the question of overcoming climate impatience. On the contrary, it testifies to the government’s approach to climate challenges, that they do not have an active approach but a passive approach. So it's good that every time the government comes to the Stortinget, it's challenged and drawn in the right direction in terms of climate. However, it is worrying that the Minister for Climate and Environment, on repeated questions, cannot mention one concrete measure that the government has promoted to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. My question is: what concrete measures will the Minister for Climate and Environment promote for the Storting as a consequence of the agreement reached by Stortinget, that we should reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst by 2030.? What concrete measures will the Minister for Climate and Environment promote?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e667	I do not know whether the representative of Aasland believes that the government's proposal for a significant increase in the efforts of the climate technology fund is not a measure to reduce emissions. It gives Enova greater opportunities to support the development of low-carbon technologies. They have also done so in the oil and gas sector. This is something we have also proposed on our own keel. So we're positive that through cooperation with our two cooperation parties, we get to a lot more. With regard to the 2030 objectives, which are being asked about here, and what we should do in concrete terms, it will depend a lot on how EU policies are designed and on what consequences they will have for Norway. We do not yet know that, because all European countries and the European Commission are now preparing that policy. This applies not least to the so-called allocation of inputs, on which a Commission proposal will be made, probably during the second quarter. We must therefore be close to that discussion, because it will have an impact on Norway's commitment to action. We're assuming that it's going to be at a high level, because GDP per capita is going to be a very important factor in the calculation. But then the next question is, how much flexibility do you get? How much do you have to cut at home, and how much can you help in taking cuts elsewhere in the European area? We don't know that either. We know that there's a flexibility coming, but we don't know how big it's going to be. The answer to that question and the outcome of that process will determine what we need to do in national climate policy and what to do in the European picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e676	I really tried to hear after now whether I heard some kind of climate impatience in the answer, and I must say that the answer was far from representing climate impatience. But I'll leave it. Moreover, there is no new measure for Enova and the climate technology fund; it is a measure established under the red-green government, and it is now strengthened, by today's majority. But there is no new measure. What we know about 2030 and the goals and obligations we have to do in relation to the EU is that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. That's at least a perfectly obvious consequence. Then I am amazed that the government consistently chooses to refrain from making concrete proposals for the Storting pending the completion of everything with the EU. It must only mean a lack of initiative before one comes to Stortinget. I would like to ask concretely: the Labour Party proposed some 40 proposals about a week and a half ago that would bring down greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Is there any of the proposals that the Minister for Climate and Environment considers inappropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e685	Now it's the way that the Right, for example, was involved in a climate settlement, and that doesn't mean that when we get into government, we're going to reject what's lying there. So you could say that what we're doing is not necessarily new. But when we overwhelm the climate deal with great strength, it is a further initiative of this government, and it has been further strengthened by the cooperation of the Stortinget. With regard to the new climate policy of the Workers' Party, I have registered that some of the proposals contain something new, but that very much is within the policy already being pursued. I agree that we should not wait – as is also stated by the Labour Party – for the agreement with the EU before implementing several national climate action. That's exactly why we're strengthening the climate agreement, that's why we've given railway appropriations at a historically high level, that's why we're increasing the walking and cycling path by 60 pst. That's why we've put 100 million. kr for climate action in municipalities, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e692	It opens for one follow-up question – from Gunvor Eldegard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e695	The climate minister does not believe that he can reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the next two years. It's a little ambitious. For this reason, the Labour Party has proposed over 40 concrete proposals here in Stortinget, among others. in the transport sector. Marine power can quickly reduce emissions. Then we have to build up the infrastructure for shore-side electricity at all major ports. And then we also have to take two steps to set tough targets for the future. We propose gradually phasing out fossil energy use in the new car market by setting up the charging system so that in 2025 all new cars will be based on low and/or zero emission solutions – and from 2030 on 100 pst. zero-release. Will the Minister for Climate Change specifically support measures to reduce emissions in the transport sector, such as shore-side electricity to ships and the conversion of charges so that the new car dealership can move towards zero emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e707	Yes, I don't just want to support the ambition of zero emissions from the transport sector; I would like to point out that we are already doing things to ensure a transition to a more environmentally friendly car park. Among other things, we do. made through the agreement of the parties to the cooperation on the principles of car charges. We have followed up with a significant increase in the CO2 component in the one-off charge. In the case of rural electricity: we already have schemes where municipalities can apply to Enova for support for rural electricity. Several municipalities have not yet done so, and they should. They already have opportunities through Enova to get support for hydrogen filling stations. In the energy message that has been notified, there will be a hydrogen strategy. We are also working on – to mention another working party proposal – a proposal for climate legislation, where appropriate reporting and governance mechanisms should be regulated to achieve our objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e715	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e727	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Erik Lundeby to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative Siri Engesetzh. Question 5, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, has been withdrawn. Question 7, from the representative Else-May Botten to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, the question is moved and answered in response to question 20, i.e.: at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 9, from the representative of Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be raised by the representative of Une Aina Bastholm. Question 14, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Fisheries, will be moved and answered before question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e744	The first question to be answered after these amendments is question 14 from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e751	«Emergency work before farming is increasing. An unused tool for increasing employment within the aquaculture sector is to introduce rolling MTB. Would you like to enable this tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e758	I thank you for the question. Several slaughterhouses and processing establishments in the salmon industry have authorised employees at the beginning of 2016, and this is due to the low availability of ready-to-slaughter fish. I guess that's this situation the representative Heggø is looking forward to in his question. This is not a new discussion, as this type of leave has also been experienced in the past, and I record that both Sjømat Norway and the Norwegian Maritime Association, NSL, have again called for greater flexibility in the regulatory regime compared to the MTB. I understand – and I think everyone does – that this is a difficult situation for all those who are being permitted, and it is also difficult for the employer who has to go to the step of permitting. This is something that the government is very focused on now, in terms of overall unemployment. We focus on it all the time and try to make the best efforts to combat it. The so-called rolling MTB was also investigated in 2013, but the government then chose not to go any further with the proposal. There were several reasons for that. Among other things, they meant: that it could lead to a large increase in standing biomass at a time of the year in which the challenges with salmonids were greatest. So also the representative Heggø knows that there's something the Stortinget has put up for now, in terms of the aquaculture notification, it's fighting and preventing lice. That's why I think it's important to keep this together with the wish that comes here now. The investigation showed at the time that rolling average MTB would provide incentives to concentrate slaughter in the autumn rather than spread slaughter beyond the year. It has therefore not been given that the introduction of such a rolling system will give the result you are looking for, namely a smoother slaughter pattern over the year, which I think everyone has a desire to get. We might be at the opposite risk of getting an enhancement of the slaughter pattern we have today. In addition, a rolling MTB will be complex administratively, which could make it more demanding to control and supervise the industry. This is why it goes beyond the desire of the government – and industry, not least – to want simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e771	We would have liked to have some examples of a rolling MTB trial plan, so the industry would have explored this and how it actually works in reality, because it's true that there were different views of the outbound hearing. But it's possible to put a roof on a rolling MTB, so you didn't get an increase in the standing biomass. There is one tool. But what you showed up as a tool to remedy the current situation was that more measures would eventually come from the government. Can you name some of these measures that you are looking at, which will eventually come from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e778	The President will draw attention to the fact that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e781	That's the new growth regime that the Storting has asked the government to present. Now I was in contact with the Marine Research Institute yesterday, and it's on schedule. Now, hopefully, there will be a consultation process up until spring, and the government has ambitions to present the new growth regime, in terms of production areas, which I think will be crucial in order to improve access to slaughter fish. Of course, it remains to be seen, but we hope to put this in place in the new year 2016/2017. So that's what's in the follow-up here. But when it is said: I believe that we should constantly assess improvements – in all kinds of legislation we have – and now, when we stand up in this establishment of the new growth regime, I think it is also wrong to introduce some testing schemes, or some models that we should test out. I'd rather be inclined to say that once we put this growth regime in place, and have it evaluated in a short time, you might be able to address the challenge of rolling MTB to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e788	The introduction of new production areas and rolling MTB is also a very central issue, because the small ones will be very relieved if they get rolling MTB when we introduce production areas. And then we're certain that we're not going to have growth until we've solved the lice problem. But is it possible to expect that we can have a forward-looking strategy that is based on measures and tools to increase the number of full-year jobs in the maritime food industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e793	Yes, I think that's a constructive input, and I'll take that with me. I think we all have ambitions to create new jobs, and we see that we are doing well in the fishing industry and aquaculture. And the purpose is also a little here in Stortinget, in the maritime food industry report, Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. There are many measures and measures that the government has promoted, which I believe – if it joins the Stortinget – will make it more profitable and thereby also provide more jobs, especially in industry, which have not been as profitable over time as we might have hoped. So if you're going to have a sample scheme where you're going to decrease the biomass over time on average all year long, I'm not sure that neither small nor large in the aquaculture sector will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e800	Then we go to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e807	«The Sotra connection creates the most queue in Bergen. In two years, costs of new connections have increased by 2.5 billion. krones. It is a tribal road where the State Road Service is responsible for planning, and it is that they make demands that costs increase. State aid today amounts to 23 p.m., as much as the State itself includes VAT on the project. The municipality has asked for a new bridge and does not want 100 kroner in tolls. Why is the Council of State blaming local politicians when it is his own State Road Service planning, and will it start construction in 2017?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e814	For the government it is important to build better roads. It is about better accessibility and building good housing and working areas, and there is no doubt that the traffic to Sotra is so great that something has to be done about the road network there. We are also concerned that we should do something about the cost increase that we have seen in the industry. We've seen a cost increase far beyond inflation, and that means that it's important that we see whether there are things that the state, the entrepreneurs, the local politicians or others can do so that we get lower costs on the roads we're going to build. It's about respect for the taxpayers, and it's about respect for the drivers where there's tolls. That is precisely what I call for both the Road Administration and local politicians. I didn't blame anyone for what's happening. I just said that in order for us to realize this at the lowest price possible, it is important that the municipal politicians, together with the Vegvesen, try to find solutions that make the project cheaper to realise. It's about spending our money in the most efficient way possible. Then I pointed out that, for example, knows that local politicians in Hordaland want one to have their own collective fields on the bridge. There's something that the Road Service says doesn't necessarily make a get bigger on the bridge, and that's going to be a challenge. These are the things we need to find solutions in common, so that when we build such a bridge, it will also be adapted to the developments we want at Sotra, in Bergen and in Hordaland in general. A cost estimate of 7.2 billion is foreseen in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. kr in 2014-krona. Of that, there's a state share of almost 30 pst. When an increased cost estimate is made without political treatment, the state percentage will appear to be smaller. But initially, one actually thought that one would contribute more than the value added tax in income. Something else would be pointless, I think. That the state is making money on that is not the point. Some changes have been made, and so has Mr Grung. New elements have emerged, including: bus fields, Straume terminal, separate cycle path, expanded tunnel, two-way running possibility and a new Kolltvet route crossing. You've also looked at the dimensioning of bridges, transitions, tunnels, day zone and that kind of thing. When a person continues to work on this, it is important that the Road Service is still responsible for the work. Political treatment has not yet taken place. My call to the Road Administration and to the local politicians is still that one must find the solutions that are best local, while one must have the costs in mind, and thus get the cheapest possible. I hope they will, so that we can see the best possible project. In terms of toll tariffs, I think everyone knows that the party and the government I represent want to reduce the toll percentage. But then we depend on the parties in Stortinget to support us when we make proposals on, for example. to grant money to cut the toll, and then I hope that the Workers' Party will vote next time for a toll cut – not against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e831	The Government, as one of its measures to make it more effective, proposed that this be planned as a OPS project. Does the State Council consider that the Road Administration and the Road Directorate are offensive enough to be able to plan it as an OPS project, or does it agree to delay it? So, is the Council of State still standing at the start of construction in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e836	We propose that we implement the projects at least as quickly as a previous one has taken into account in the national transport plan. We have increased the appropriations for planning new roads. In the draft budget presented by the previous government before it went out, i.e. the 2014 budget, there were planning funds for about 800 million. kr for the whole nation. The budget we have now adopted with the Christian People's Party and the Left, i.e. two budget years later, is almost three billion. Total kr. It shows a willingness to speed things up and get things done at a much higher level than it has been before. We believe that OPS is a good implementation method. Many people get the debate to be about funding only, but for us it's about making sure that public-private cooperation invites entrepreneurs to an earlier stage than before. This means that those who are going to build it will also be involved in designing the project and thus be able to influence material selection, height, capacity and all of this, so that we can jointly reduce costs. We think that's a better way than to make complete construction drawings that one can't affect to such an extent without delaying the project. So yes, we still have the progress plan as our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e843	I guess the Council of State knows where the Sotra connection is. It's close up to Bergen and densely populated Laksevåg, so I'm a little surprised that he thinks there's no need for collective fields, because it's at least in contrast to what local politicians think should be the solution, which was also up in the discussion here earlier today. The question that I put in place, and that I did not experience being answered, is: Does the Council of State think that when it comes to planning with OPS, both the State Road Administration and the Road Directorate are competent to have the dialogues with the builders, etc., and that that process does not go any slower now than if a OPS solution had not been chosen for the planning phase as well? And will it start construction in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e850	I think I answered quite clearly in the previous answer that we are dealing with the progress plan that has been underpinned. With regard to the selection of OPS, there was a dialogue with the Road Directorate and the Road Administration, where one looked at which projects would be suitable for OPS solutions and where one believes that this would benefit the project. For me, it's not necessarily most important when a set of spade in the ground, but when the project actually opens up to traffic. If the goal was just to boast that you've put the spade in the ground, you're still building E18 through Eastfold, after you've been on for 15-20 years. I don't think there's anything you should be very proud of. To me, it's the opening time that applies. If one then, sometimes spending a little more time planning, can implement it faster, it is actually a success criterion. But I do not now assume that we have a delay on this. I'm busy having good bus solutions. We're going to have more people who travel collectively in the future than today, but that doesn't necessarily mean that one has to have a collective field on a bridge if that means that a lot of capacity disappears due to relatively few buses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e865	‘According to the Fädrelandsvenn, the road standard of the Stoltenberg government is the three- and two-field road, alternately, as the financing basis for New Roads AS, which has been entrusted with the development of several major road sections in Norway, including the E39 Kristiansand–Stavanger. The progress party promised before the election four-field road the entire distance in 10 years. The Minister for Transport of the Progress Party has now been responsible for transport over three fiscal years. Why is this not corrected in any of these budgets?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e872	I am glad that the Workers' Party reminds people that today's government is more offensive in road construction than what the previous government had planned. That doesn't mean, however, that we're able to conjure up a new road overnight. It must be planned and it must be built. In the current National Transport Plan, one has not planned to build a single metre of road between Lwagal and Ålgård, but we have said that we will plan the entire road section together in order to implement it. In this way, we are already well ahead of the form, both in time and in dimensional terms. We have also said that one should have the perspective that one should build the regions together is not a two-way path forward. We have to plan it as a four-field road. I am very pleased that at NRK Sørlanden in the summer of 2014, Vegvesenet said that they thought it was a better solution than what they had really been set to plan, for now they could plan a path that would make sense for several generations to come. We are also in front of the form in terms of appropriations. I recall, as I said in my previous reply about the Sotra connection, that the red-green proposal for the road and rail planning budget in 2014 was 816 million. kr. The budget we have adopted, the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is 2 989 million. kr. It's almost a quadruple. There's evidence that we've planned to implement the projects that we've talked about before, precisely because we have people who do a job of building drawings. Then we have said that for long sections of the road, long sections of the main road, we believe that doing as one has done before, planning 5 km, 10 km at a time – building piecewise and divided – is not the way we can do it. We'll plan long distances, so you can look at new lanes, move the road outside the town center, but still with good access routes to where people live. That's why we've set up the road company, New Veier AS, which has got the entire route as its responsibility. In Stavanger Aftenblad a few months ago, one of the planners in Vegvesenet has been sitting and preparing this project for transfer to the road company, who said that they are now working in a completely different way. Now they don't sit and plan one and one parcel at a time, now they're sitting and planning 20 miles at a time. It gives completely different possibilities. When we've economically taken the cost of the national transport plan, it's because we want to stimulate the road company to find better and cheaper solutions, that they're forced to look at cheaper solutions, just because by thinking 20 miles you can find other solutions than what you can look at when you look at one and a pair. We know that much of the cost of building roads lies in the planning phase. One must have something to stretch after when one knows that one has not got all the money one will, but one has to find solutions that make it cheaper. It helps to give the drive that makes this project cheaper. Should we see in a few years that it does not go far enough, we will, of course, use budgetary procedures to adjust the appropriations for the road company.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e889	Thanks for the answer. I note that the Council of State is satisfied that they are in front of the Stoltenberg-regieringen form, but they are not in front of their own, because according to the Progress Party, the four-field road should be completed within 10 years without toll financing. So there are two promises that are already broken. The Minister also signals that it will be more reasonable to build and, in order to do so, there will be fewer detour routes. The experience with E18 between Grimstad and Kristiansand is good. There are good exit options, and this means that the region is linked in a housing and labour market. The Minister’s solutions can be seen as more planning to build a passageway ahead of a road that will strengthen the region as a common housing and labour market. Will the Minister provide sufficient routes of exit, so that the objective of the common housing and labour market is strengthened and not weakened, and how will the Minister ensure the priority of the E39 as the decision-making authority has been added to the road carrier?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e898	I think it is very nice to hear from the Workers' Party that they note that today's government is in front of the form in relation to the Labour Party's plans. That's a good observation. If the Workers' Party thinks we should be fully in line with the Progress Party's plans, then my call is to vote the Advance Party at the next elections, so that we get an even greater majority in the Stortinget. Getting criticism that we are not even further ahead of the Workers' Party's form becomes almost as relevant as hearing the Brazilian football coach complain after the 7-1 down in the semifinals of the World Football Championship, that Germany should have won 10–0 and not just 7–1. I am very satisfied with what I see from the road company so far. They have shown a willingness to look at the projects to look for new cost reductions and to find solutions, while at the same time meeting the transport needs of the local population. That's why we're building the roads to build the regions. Then there is not necessarily how many exits you have on the motorway, which is the point, but how good access routes you have to the motorway. There are two different aspects of the same case, but that can give you different costs. We have to look at what is best offered in terms of price.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e907	I am recording that the Progress Party is pleased to be in front of the previous government form rather than being behind its own, and that is an equally good observation. The government also added that the Nulands Hill in the Western state was to enter the last NTP. The road system signals uncertainties related to the starting of necessary repairs to this ground. The road is a stopper especially in winter. Rehabilitation of the road cannot wait. People in the West County are concerned about whether this could mean a postponement of improvements in the Nulands hill. We can't wait 20 years before it's repaired. Can the Council of State calm people in the western region and guarantee that the repairs will enter the next NTP, and that they will be in place before the four-field road is completed? So maybe the Council of State can take some time to answer the previous question: how to ensure that the E39 is prioritised in the new road company when the minister has resigned from political governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e914	We have political governance in mind that we have said that road should be put in place during the 20-year period of the road company. It is much more offensive than it was in the national transport plan, where one said nothing will happen in the next ten years. Then it's about local politicians, road companies and others having to find solutions that make this company give priority to this road section because one finds good solutions. We already see that one is building on the distances. It is built in the north on the route from Sande and down to Ålgård. It's to be built in the south, in Lwagal. The control plans are now in place. We have made sure that there is political pressure to get good clarifications quickly. So we know that the level of funding we're adding up here is something that the previous transport policy figure from the Workers' Party called a roadbonanza. It's a little strange when, in one situation, we get criticism that we add up to a roadbonanza, and then you give the impression that it's not good progress anyway. Then you have to agree on what kind of criticism you should address today's government. As far as road maintenance and renewal are concerned, we know that the budget on the road has doubled during today's government, and that suggests that there is a greater chance of getting solutions in place than what you had really put up in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e929	‘New E6 south of Trondheim is promised to be completed by 2023. At the same time, the size of the population has determined, through the climate agreement, that all growth in passenger traffic in and around the major cities is to be taken with collective, gangways or bicycles. In order to establish good travel habits and make more people choose collectively before the new E6 is completed, it is important that good train provision with new trainsets is established. What plans exist for the phase-in of Flirt trains on the Trunder Railway?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e936	It is important to provide good collective travel services to citizens. It may consist of railway — it's very efficient in and out of big cities — but bus is actually the most used means of collective travel. We have just established an intention agreement on an urban environment agreement in Trondheim, which will mean a strong development of the city's bus offer. I want to see this in context. Flirt trains are an important part of having a good rail service, but it's far from the only thing. It's about having a good uptime on infrastructure, having a predictability so that people know that when they take the train, they come to work, and they come back home to the agreed time. That's why the most important thing we do for the Trander Railway – really for the railways in general – is to upgrade the infrastructure. So over the course of two fiscal years, we have more than doubled the maintenance effort, so we are now reducing the maturity, which has increased for many decades. That's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Then we better organise the railways to bring together different responsibilities and to bring together budgets that are relevant to each other. It's about improving materials. We have increased the number of orders for new trainsets from Stadler in Switzerland. There are new train sets coming every month, and that means that you also get a better quality of the material, and you get less maintenance. The long-term objective must, of course, be that one has the most consistent material system possible, so that it is easy to take maintenance and that one has a good stock of parts nationally. In the case of Flirt trains on the Trønderbahn, two so-called combinations have been ordered that can go both on electricity and on diesel, as part of the routes in the area have not been electrified. We recently received a report from the Railway Agency on the electrification of the diesel-powered routes that are today, and that is an important part of the job that we are going to do in the National Transport Plan for 2018 and beyond. On the Trønderbahn some planning work has already been done in order to start electrification at an earlier time. For me, it's important that when we buy new trainsets, we have to buy trainsets that are suitable for the different distances, and then, given how much faster we're going to buy even more trainsets, it's important that we have a time axis in the national transport plan for the full electrification of the different routes. But a combination solution would mean that NSB and others would also provide a good coverage for having new train sets, but that's the infrastructure as such, the predictability of it, which is the most important. And then anyway, we're also going to have full pressure on building E6 both north and south of Trondheim. A year and a half ago, I had a delegation from the South Trøndelag County on a visit. They called and wanted to speed up E6, because they said that according to the National Transport Plan, it would be completed by 2032 at the earliest. I think it is very good that with today's government we are talking about 2023 instead, and that should also happen at the same time as we are betting on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e958	It is gratifying that, as the first city, Labour Party-led Trondheim has set up an urban environment agreement, where the state contributes up to 50 pst. of the costs. The Labour Party has decided that this proportion should be 75 pst., but I will leave that discord. It is a little disappointing that there is no more concrete and ambitious plan for the Trønderbahn, especially since the Council of State as a staging representative in relation to the work of the current NTP through committee comments considered that there should just be ambitious and clear plans for the combination of electrification and Flirt trains. So I ask again: does this mean that the Council of State will not provide the NSB with an additional residual value guarantee for trains to the Trønderbanen, so that the company avoids time loss and extra costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e967	I think the criticism that is being promoted is a bit strange, as one then says that the national transport plan that the Workers' Party itself put forward is not offensive enough when one is in opposition. It must be the Labour Party's problem. I note that the railway appropriations are so far ahead of the form in relation to what the Workers' Party has planned. In fact, the rail budget for 2016 had to be reduced by approx. 2.5 B.C.E. SEK – 2,500 million. kr – to reach the level set by the Workers’ Party for this NTP period. So I don't have a bad conscience like that. So I repeat – as I said before – that if one believes that the Progress Party should be able to take advantage of even more of our primary policy, a vote of the Advance Party should be held at the next elections, not the Workers' Party. I am very pleased that the working party leader Trondheim is early off with a urban environment agreement. It shows that the negotiations we've been working on will be in place. So I just want to say that when you're talking about someone who would like to have 75 pst. State share, I would like to remind you that when the Workers' Party crashed, Bergen received 15 pst. State share, against now 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e978	I notice that the Council of State is more concerned with criticising the efforts of the Workers' Party than actually giving us an insight into the plans that exist. But in the Council's answer to written question No. 15:707 from 2014, from the representative Raja, writes the minister that ‘The electricalisation of the Trondheim-Steinkjer section will be completed in 2020 and the Meråkerbahn in 2021’. [[Trunder]] However, the 2016 state budget writes about the electrification project that it is planned for construction start in 2017 and completion in 2023, i.e. two to three years delay. The Council of State said in its reply to the representative here earlier today that the opening time is important to the Council of State. I agree with that. Then it is interesting if the Council of State is satisfied with its own power of action, when after 40 years of electrification it is able to run out the opening time by two to three years. The council says he does not have a bad conscience. It's got to be his case. But can the State Council then explain why the project has now been two to three years delayed compared to the previous information provided by the State Council to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e990	I think it might also have a little bit to do with how long distances you compare it to. But I think that the representative Tung's input into this question, when she talks about having spent 40 years planning, and then it's actually under today's government with the Right and the Advance Party that it's implemented, testifying to where the power of action really is. The fact that we've given so much more money because we're giving priority not only to plan, but actually to realize, is important. Then we have a job where we have to plan this done before you can start building. It makes sense to know what to have, so that you can order material and get the contractor in place before you start putting the stick in the ground. But as I said in the answer: It is in 2017 we start. So for NSB's material needs: there are many places in the country where you need new train sets. We have, as I mentioned, started ordering two new train sets on the Trønderbahn, which will come. Then one will see an electrification and all of this, so that one gets the train sets that are best suited. But I remember that, for example. The Gjøvik Railway runs a 30-year-old trainset. We will now renew them. The railway has not had new train sets since 1952 – they are also getting new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1003	This question, from the representative Erik Lundeby to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Siri Engesetzh.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1006	‘The planning of a new Ringeriksbahn is in full swing, which will both extend the residential and labour market region around Oslo and contribute to a strongly abbreviated Bergensbane. What disturbs us in the left, however, is that the railway works seem to plan a trajectory for the track through the Bærum, which makes traffic on this new route impossible. For the left, it is important not to lose track on freight traffic. Will the Council of State facilitate the movement of goods with the Ringerix Railway as well?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1013	First, I want to say that I am very pleased that, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have made sure that what has been planned for many decades will now approach a realization. There are not a few national transport plans in which this project has been mentioned, but has taken a step and actually decided to do something. So that's where we've worked well together. In his investigation of the Ringeriksbahnen and E16, the Railway Agency recommended that the Ringeriksbanen should not be organised for freight in regular routes. It's a little bit about what kind of path we want to build. We want to have a high-speed train, and mixing trains running at 250 km/h, with freight trains with much lower speeds, will destroy the flexibility and safety of that project. For me, it's important that when we're expanding the residential and working region around Oslo, it's about reducing travel time, making sure that henfoss becomes an attractive place that can more or less be seen as a suburb of Oslo, just like part of the outermost sections of the Oslo T-Bahn network. Then you have to speed up the wagon equipment. The proposal submitted does not make it impossible to drive goods. But primarily the Railway Agency has said that one should run the Bergensbanen by freight train via Roa, and something on Randsfjordbahnen via Drammen. Today there is a six trainset running the route via Gjøvik, and one sees that it has to be done with 10 trainsets in the future. That means you have a vision that more goods are going on the track. I believe that with the upgrades that one should do, among other things. with crossing tracks, one will be able to handle the freight flows on the rail in a satisfactory manner via the Gjøvik track. Starting to mix it into the Ringerix track will both be unnecessary and destroy the quality of the Ringeriksbanen as a passenger train. If there's a problem on the Roa line or on the Randsfjord Railway, you could use the Ringerix Railway as a spare, so that it doesn't go beyond the freight sections in total. It's important to me, because when we talk to business, there are a lot of the big freight forwarders who say that having more goods on the rail is something they want – both because it gives a good environmental account, it does good in their annual reports, and because on many routes it's a good economy. But what they're saying is the reason they often choose the railway away is because predictability is too small. They know when to go, but it's not always. And if it's not part of a predictable logistics chain, then they choose the truck, where the chance of getting delays they don't have control of is smaller. Then it's getting the Ringerix track as a kind of back-up solution part of it to create a more robust freight transport structure. When one then has arranged for it, I am satisfied with it, but I am not going to do anything to turn it into a freight train as a primary route.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1024	I think that was a really good answer. We do not want to delay the project. What we wanted to assure ourselves was precisely these thoughts about having the main tracks at Gjøvik and the Drama of Goods, and that you can have three thoughts in your head at once and run the capacity of the passenger traffic on the Oslo-Navet route. It'll be big. I only have one additional question: Will you be able to get to the start of construction and the coordination of road and railway projects as planned, starting in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1031	That's the absolute goal and now there's no reason to believe that we're not getting it. We have to remember that here we're really doing a lot of new things at once, and that means that there's always a risk that things don't go like a wish, but there's no indication of that yet. One has done a very good and fast job where the Road Administration and the Railway Agency have jointly developed plans, involved local actors – both politicians, nature conservation organisations, cultural memory organisations and the like – and have made the compromises on an ongoing basis. There are still people who want to rematch, but not to the extent that it's been in such big projects in the past. Then we've been working further now, once we've chosen lines and stuff like that, got them to coordinate the job and solve things continuously along the way. We also do it so that many things are done in parallel instead of in order. This means that you can save for four to five years on the planning side, and so far it seems to be going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1049	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1056	‘DNB ASA is Norway’s largest financial group and is of great importance for the creation of value throughout the country, especially in the field of conversion and entrepreneurial activities. It is therefore strange that they centralise their services and thus distance themselves from the active business environment. The marine industry has the strongest cluster in the West, while DNB is moving its marine department to Oslo. The same with the insurance environment. How will the Council of State ensure a closer interaction between the financial industry and strong regional business environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1063	Well-functioning capital markets are essential for value creation. The banks play a key role in ensuring the necessary capital for business conversion, investment and on-going operations. Our business is in transition. Oil prices have fallen, and unemployment is increasing in parts of the country. It's not just the oil industry that needs to be transformed. All businesses and industries need to continuously streamline and develop their activities, including banking. The Norwegian banking industry is at the forefront of digitisation. For the last decades, we have gone from personal encounters in banks to online giro and accountancy. Today, most services are offered over the Internet so that customers can perform them themselves. It has given a simplified and user-friendly banking day. New technological solutions can provide the banking industry with adequate knowledge and insight into local markets. Digital solutions allow banks to have easier and more frequent contact with their business customers, and customers save time when they do not have to travel to the bank. Visits to business customers do not depend on bank officials sitting in a given geographical location. Of course, these balances and the impact they will have on the branch network must be assessed by the individual bank. What is important is that we have good, well-functioning banking services that are available throughout the country and that there is competition in the market. Good competition rules and strong competition supervision are therefore important to ensure the proper functioning of the capital market. The representative raises the issue of the aquaculture industry. This is an important and growing industry in Norway. Historically, farming has been considered a risky industry, but today the industry is primarily characterised by optimistic market prospects. The availability of capital is good, and breeding companies are currently lending to banks on good terms. The DNB itself has stated that the aquaculture industry will not have problems in securing financing for capital-intensive projects in the future. The objective of the State’s ownership of DNB ASA is to maintain a large and competent financial group with its head office function in Norway. The group shall be operated on a commercial basis and with a view to providing a competitive return. Enterprises must operate economically. It also includes the banking industry. There are constantly technological changes, and we need to make the necessary conversion happen. Nevertheless, I am following developments to discover any signs that the supply of capital on the business market is not sufficient. Therefore, on Monday, I invited a number of players from the market – the largest organisations, the tools and other business representatives – to a meeting on the access to capital and the situation in the capital market. In the meeting I got more good insights into the capital market and a good understanding of how the actors themselves perceive the situation. Good projects are still supported, but there may be challenges for SMEs and for some projects. Therefore, it is important that we use the instrument to support business in the transition phase we are in, and implement a tax reform that improves private access to capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1080	Now it was primarily about the financial industry as an independent industry. One feature that we notice from several other industries is the close contact that is up against the environment – and is it wise to weaken the financial industry? We know that TV 2 has been involved in further development of the NRK. One should have the same effect, that one has two environments that make each other mutually beneficial, and at least they should be strong in the areas in which Bergen is strong, and especially in the seafood and marine sectors, but also in the insurance sector. Why is it moving away from Bergen, especially in the exact conversion period we're in now? We need a strong financial industry and that one makes each other mutually good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1085	There is no problem in agreeing with the questioner that it is important to have a good capital market that responds to the challenges you face, who know the challenges, and who knows the industry. This is what the banking industry and the financial industry know very well, they make such assessments every day. So this has been a development that has occurred especially during the 2000s. There have been major changes. And I realize that it's hard to understand too many people that even if we as a state own, among other things. in DNB, with more than 34 p.m., the Board of Directors shall take the business decisions on the structure of the business. There has been cross-political agreement over many decades. That's why the Boards are going to make these assessments, and I'm sure the Boards are doing them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1092	Nevertheless, it is very easy for most industries to operate with a centralisation that is not necessarily the best when you see the totality — and how to develop the most competitive. As I mentioned in the example of TV 2, which was a deliberate choice: by having two strong environments, the overall national environment was strong. And Bergen is the strongest financial environment outside Oslo – Oslo is always going to be a strong environment. So that was really the main challenge: how can you do something in that area right there? The mountains also have a strong environment for ICT. Then it may be a bit old-fashioned and a little special that DNB chooses to ‘outsource’ the ICT part of India and the Balkans, while we know – and the minister knows that very well – that itslearning and all these new companies that are established in Bergen, including the new Vipps solution, have developed in Bergen. So why not be clearer when it comes to establishing two strong financial environments, and not least using the local expertise that is around?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1099	There is no problem in agreeing with the political starting point of the representative – I think we both are. We are pleased with a decentralised solution both in the media industry and in the financial and ICT industries. But from now on to breaking important ownership principles, like going into the companies, making business decisions about where they're going and how they're going to do their job, we can't do it. I don't think anyone deserves that. The banks know that they should be close to their business customers, and my experience is that they are. They know a lot about their markets, and they make important decisions about it every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1104	Then we go to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1111	‘The mineral industry is one of the few industries specifically mentioned in the Government Declaration. The Minister of Industry has stated that the mineral industry is a land-based industry with the potential to increase value creation and employment. However, in this year’s budget, the industry is hit by a cut in the means of mineral screening, leading to redundancies in the NGU and the loss of important competences in what is defined as a future industry. What is the government’s strategy and any concrete measures to further develop the mineral industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1118	The mineral industry is an important area of government activity. The industry is present throughout the country, providing value creation and long-term jobs, and production from industry is absolutely necessary in a modern society. The industry has a potential for increased value creation and employment. At the same time, there is no doubt that the potential for short-term entry into service has been reduced recently. Prices of many of the industry's products have fallen in the last four years, from an historically high level. It has, among other things, led to the loss of a large company: Southvarger Gruve was unable to run economically and had to go down. Many of the players in the mineral industry also have lower margins than just a short time ago. On the government side, we have a long-term perspective on the development of the mineral industry. We know that the prices of raw materials vary, and that will bring bad and good times. In the long term, however, there is a potential for mineral holdings in Norway that we need to exploit. Then there's the results that count. The government has had on its table two major projects that could result in large start-ups in the mineral industry: the Nussir project in Finnmark and the Nordic Mining project in Sogn and Fjordane. Both projects have received confirmation of the regulatory plan and have received the necessary emission permits from the Environment Directorate and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Of course, I am aware that these emissions permits have been charged, and we have to wait for the handling of the complaints. However, the permits granted illustrate the government's willingness to contribute to the development of the mineral industry in Norway, and that we, on the part of the government, are serious when we say that the mineral industry has a potential and is a priority industry. At the same time, the issues well illustrate the level of professionalism that needs to be taken into account, and the extent to which the investigations need to be carried out in order to determine a modern mineral extraction. It will not be possible for companies to obtain these permits if they have not done a sufficiently good job in advance. A thorough and good planning process is crucial for all major off-takes. The Government has implemented several measures to improve action in the field of planning in order to reduce the length of proceedings and to improve the handling of objections. We will continue to simplify and improve the planning processes. In the 2016 state budget, cuts were needed in many areas, as we had to deal with an exceptional situation in the short term with the influx of refugees to Norway. The allocation for mineral mapping was one of the areas that had to be cut, but that does not mean that the government has a lower ambition in the mineral field. An example is that the government, at the latest yesterday, approved the extraction of valuable quartz in Nasafjell, Northern Ireland. It means up to 50 new jobs in the municipality and increasing value creation in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1135	I record that the Council of State is using the argument about bad times not to bet on mapping, but isn't it just in bad times that one should have surveyed our resources? The Minister of Economic Affairs wrote the following in the press release in connection with the 2015 budget: ‘Mineral industries have the potential for growth, value creation and job creation across the country. We can only trigger that if we find new mineral resources that can be profitable to extract. The Government therefore proposes to allow a total of SEK 30 million for geophysical mapping in North Norway and South Norway.» However, in the context of the supplementaryproposal entered into the budget of the year, the entire allocation has been cut, as the Council of State said. NGU has been aware that they will not be able to maintain their competence. The question is: does the Minister for Industry not see that through this cut she has contributed to the loss of the ability of the mineral industry to grow, as she describes in the referenced press release?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1147	I completely disagree with the description of the answer. I was very clear that it was the extraordinary situation that arose in the autumn, which meant that the allocation had to be cut. The draft budget was our proposal for a State budget, but we had to deal with a difficult situation, it had to be financed and we did. So I just described the challenges of the mineral industry today, because they're different than they were a short time ago, but that's not why the budget was changed. So it's that mapping is important, but the most important thing a government can do is deal with matters. The last government didn't. That's what this government has done. It leads to employment, and it leads to value creation, and it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1154	As a result of the development of high technology and green technology, industry will in future need new types of mineral resources as well as traditional metals and minerals. In Norway, we have deposits, including many undetected deposits, of minerals and metals that the EU has classified as critically important for our future industry. In this context, in my view, Norway needs to be attractive in order to attract industry with the necessary knowledge and capital to put the presence into operation. We know that current industrial enterprises require the modern, basic geological maps and data available, and therefore have considerable budgetary implications. The question is then: what kind of other attractive incentives and framework conditions will the Minister propose to attract industrial enterprises that can use their knowledge and capital in Norway to develop these mineral resources in an enterprise?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1161	There is no doubt that this is an industry with great potential. The government's ambition is firm, but that's how we had to make changes this year because of an extraordinary situation. We still have a great desire to map and develop this industry. I think the most important signal we can give to the industry is that applications they submit are treated. It's taken years for the industry. It gives a very bad signal that we have a heavy root and complicated procedure, and that we do not clarify matters. The companies spend a lot of resources on this, they have to be very up-to-date, use a lot of expertise, we know that. These are big and complicated things. The least you can do then from the authorities is to deal with and settle matters, so that you get an answer as to whether you can get started or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1173	This question, from the representative of Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be raised by the representative of Une Aina Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1176	The question from Rasmus Hansson is: «The Environment Directorate has examined all aspects of mining at Fördefjorden and believes that all are negative for the environment. In accordance with the Pollution Act, the Directorate has assessed this against the perceived socio-economic benefits and concluded that environmental interventions do not have adverse effects to offset them. If the socio-economic benefits that trump the precautionary principle and the right of citizens to a clean environment in and around the Fördefjord are reduced, is the emission permit withdrawn?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1185	In general, when assessing whether a permit is to be granted under the pollution law, the assumptions that can be obtained at the time of the decision are taken. In this case, in line with the pollution law, an assessment of the pollution disadvantages of the measure has been made in conjunction with the benefits and disadvantages of the other measure. It is the future income from mining that will be the dominant benefit to society as a whole. Raw materials prices vary over time, and even if a company should periodically have problems with profitability, there is no basis for withdrawing authorisation. Undertakings authorised under the pollution law should be able to count on the permit to be valid for a period of time, in order to be able to comply with it, for investment purposes. However, the pollution authorities may withdraw a permit or, where appropriate, change the conditions in the event of a change in circumstances, but in particular it will be on the basis of changed conditions related to the pollution disadvantages. That assessment will also focus on the strong interests of the business in maintaining the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1192	The Environment Directorate has, as I said, concluded that the environmental impact is serious, but that the benefits can outweigh it. They have not said that mining in Fördefjord is environmentally sound. So in addition, the environmental consequences can be even greater than initially assumed. Just before Christmas, the research community at NMBU published criticism of the current measurements that form part of the decision base. The report claims that the waste masses can spread much more than assumed and that the limit of the time of particle damage to fish occurs has been assessed up to 50 times too high. I understand that the Council of State cannot decide which subject is most correct. But will the Council of State ensure that at least this new information is carefully evaluated?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1199	To the first part of the question, I would like to stress that it is the rule and not the exception that state directorates take full account of when deciding on new measures, and the pollution law provides for an overall assessment of the benefits and disadvantages of the measure. That's the job that the Environment Directorate is set to do. With regard to concrete statements and complaints, I cannot go into this further, because the complaints are to be dealt with by the King in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1206	Some of the interesting thing about this case is that this is probably not the only case where the mineral industry and vulnerable nature stand up against each other in the years to come. The demand for minerals is increasing and the most readily accessible and inexpensive deposits are being emptied. So we're already facing a corresponding intervention in Repparfjord, and there might be more. At the same time, Stortinget has decided to stop biodiversity loss by 2020, but the Minister for the Environment will rather give priority to jobs. The question then becomes – and a little back to what I started with: How many jobs does the Council of State think a species is worth? What is the Council's tolerance for loss of species in Norwegian fjords?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1213	Natural diversity is an important value in itself, and it is also an important value for the economy. And it's also true that when we're in a climate-driven transformation, we're going to need more of those ecosystem services, to have good ecosystem services, also in a value creation perspective. So here, there's no simple contradiction, as the representative suggests. It also makes one species face one particular industrial interest, not that of this thematic one. It is about taking full account of societal developments. That is what the pollution law provides, and that is the job that the Environment Directorate has been set up to manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1222	‘Access to qualified health professionals is a key factor in health services. The number of medical assistants in the specialist hospital in the period 2009–2014 has increased by 25 per cent; in the same period, the number of nurseries has increased by 12 per cent, while there was a 24 per cent decrease in the annual health professionals’ workforce. Thus, 2 000 health professionals have disappeared from hospitals in 5 years. What is the reason for this, and what measures does the government have to reverse this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1229	Access to adequate and competent personnel is a prerequisite for providing patients with safe and good services. These are key issues in the EEAS Communication on the future primary health service and in the National Health and Hospital Plan, which Stortinget currently has to deal with. The need for staff and competence in hospitals is changing and developing. Health enterprises must have a good balance and proper composition of occupational groups in order to ensure the diversity of tasks to meet the needs of patients. Health professionals are a large and important health care profession, particularly in municipal health and care services. They also have an important place in hospitals. At the same time, it is known that the development of specialist healthcare with shorter lay time and transition from day care to day care and outpatient care has affected the needs and requirements of hospitals for competence. It is true that the composition of health professionals has changed in recent years and that the proportion of health professionals and caregivers has decreased. One reason for this may be that modern hospital operations require higher and increasingly specialised competence. Another reason may be a lack of knowledge of the competence of health professionals and how it can be used in a modern hospital. Although developments have led to a reduction in the proportion of health professionals, there are several hospitals that are now paying attention to health professionals’ apprentices, for example. in Health Stavanger and in Health Bergen. Regional health enterprises have also contributed to the emergence of new areas for health professionals. This has led to the creation of new curricula for some health professionals to qualify for work in hospitals. In addition, health professionals are qualified through education and the apprenticeship system. It is the responsibility of health businesses to analyse and have an overview of the personnel needs of hospitals. They shall also provide plans for how to recruit and develop competences, so that resources are used in the best possible way. The government will strengthen the competence of health and care services. Health professionals are one of many important groups in the overall service provision. We are in the process of following up the primary health notification and the national health and hospital plan when it has been treated by the Stortinget. Ensuring proper competence in the right place is important in this work. That's why it's also, among other things. in the context of the national health and hospital plan, a national tool for better planning the need for competence in our hospitals is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1246	I am uncertain whether I understood the answer correctly, and whether the Minister of Health and Health actually thought it was a quite natural development that so many years ago for health professionals have disappeared from Norwegian hospitals. Even if there are additional requirements for competence, there are some things during a stay in a hospital that actually have to be done, anyway. If a type of health worker disappears, others have to take over that job. So I would like an answer from the Minister of Health, if he thought that a decrease of 24 pst. In five years' time, that is, 2,000 annual works have disappeared, are natural and a development he thinks is right, or whether he thinks this is worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1253	I tried in my response to give a description of the conditions that may have led to this development, without considering whether this was a proper development or not in terms of the actual size of the number of health professionals. But I think the representative agrees that today, when we have fewer bed hospitals – fewer hospitalized patients – and more patients who receive outpatient treatment and day care, the result is that there will be less need for the 24-hour care and care, which was much more so in the hospitals earlier. But I am absolutely convinced that health professionals will also have an important function in the hospitals in the future. That's why I'm showing you, among other things. to Health Bergen, and to Health Stavanger, who really sat on this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1258	What I'm asking is whether the Minister of Health and Health thinks that what they're doing in Health Stavanger is something other healthcare professionals should also do more about, and whether they want to encourage it. I assume that the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the government have a plan for health professionals in the large area called hospitals, and for how the development should be. Although it has been a shift from day care to outpatient treatment, this decline is so dramatic that I think it must probably have led to a deterioration in the competence of the normal hospital ward. What measures the Council of State will take to reverse developments, I would ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1265	I can assure the representative that I often already refer to what Health Stavanger and Health Bergen do in meeting the hospitals. I think it's wise. I believe that it is also an important part of the societal mission to have apprentices in this subject, also as part of helping to develop the skills of those who have this education and who may later be working in the municipality. This is part of the community mission of our hospitals. During the period 2013–2016, Health Nord has had its own investment project, with the aim of increasing the proportion of health professionals with completed vocational letters by 40 pst. So this is something that other people are also taking seriously. I am absolutely convinced that health professionals will play a central role in our hospitals in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1278	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In an extraordinary board meeting, the University Hospital of North Norway in Tromsø has decided to build new administrative facilities related to the planned new PET Centre through an arrangement of OPS. Taking into account the poor experience of OPS in such contexts in many countries; how does the Council of State now intend to open up the use of OPS in the realization of new buildings in our hospitals?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1287	In the business meeting last January, I gave health regions – through changes in the statutes – greater flexibility to use private solutions. This also applies to public-private cooperation, so-called OPS projects. I think it is clear that private individuals can contribute to greater flexibility and more efficient solutions. In OPS projects, the contracting entity and the supplier have a common focus related to the life cycle. This gives incentives to choose long-term, good and effective solutions. Furthermore, the maintenance required during the contract period is ensured. At the same time, health businesses themselves have the competence to choose between owning or renting and to handle this within the financial framework they have. Furthermore, I have included the use of private cooperation solutions, so that all agreements over 100 million. kr must be dealt with at the business meeting. This involves clearer governance than general investment decisions in health enterprises. As I am familiar with the matter to which the representative Knutsen refers, the board of UNN has approved that competition for public and private cooperation is being announced for the construction of three office stores at the top of the PET centre. The background is that UNN is currently renting office premises in the private market in Tromsø. The decision was taken subject to approval by the Board of Health Nord. I know that Health Nord has a tight control over investment projects in its region and has developed guidelines to ensure proper and good prioritisation of investments. OPS projects are investments and shall follow the same assessment criteria as other investment projects in the region. These provisions shall ensure a full decision-making basis in which quality, economics, organisational development and other impacts have been assessed. Regional health enterprises are responsible for both planning and prioritising their investments. Now they can also assess private cooperation solutions. This responsibility takes Health Nord in the greatest seriousness, and I have full confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1300	It's really not a surprise the answer the Council of State gives. His party is very excited about OPS, and there have also been Right-wing conservative sister parties in other countries. In the United Kingdom and Sweden, OPS has been used in the construction of many public projects, but after experience has been gained, the attitude has changed: ‘The greatest risk of OPS agreements, and this has been seen several times, is that the total cost of the project is going to be enormously much higher than what it would become with state funding’, said spokesman Adam Morris of the Conservative Party in Scotland two to three years ago, adding that he did not ‘believe in OPS as the financing model for public projects’. And the Minister of Finance Anders Borg said in 2008 that the government in Sweden would not build on krita. What is it that the Right and Government will absolutely not listen to the advice of their sister parties in other countries, based on highly animal-acquired OPS experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1312	Well, we're listening to the experiences from other countries, and that's also why we have a completely different frame of this than what you've had, for example. in the United Kingdom. It was not least during the Labour Government that the OPS scheme was used to greatly increase the amount of public investment without taking into account that it was actually due back. There were animal-bought experiences from the previous Labour government in the United Kingdom that conservatives have spent a lot of time cleaning up afterwards. Therefore, the framework for public-private cooperation and its use in healthcare companies is also clearly below the same criteria as other investments, but we have had many examples that wise solutions could not be used because of the rigid legislation that was in the past. It's been tricked in some places, for example. that a municipality builds an ambulance station together with its medical care centre and that health care establishments rent the premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1317	The problem is not that you cannot have other rules to build, but it is the OPS device itself that is the problem, that you transfer large values from the purpose it was intended to to private operators. We have some examples: the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh led to the state putting back on a bill of 11 billion. DKK for a building worth 3 billion. kr. New Karolinska Emergency Hospital in Sweden increased costs from 14.5 billion. Swedish krona for SEK 52 billion Swedish krona. We've had examples of costly OPS projects here at home, and there are values that go from public purpose to private, no matter how you turn it around. When the University Hospital of North Norway says that OPS is intended to be used, it lies between the lines that the reason for this is that the entity has a very stressed liquidity, and then my question is: When will the Council of State fulfill the promises he made before the 2013 elections, in at least 12 billion? extra to the hospital sector during the four-year period, so that enterprises can actually invest in the necessary infrastructure and not rely on corrupt private loans?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1324	The growth in patient treatment in hospitals during my time as Minister of Health is significantly higher than that which it was over the eight years of the Workers' Party, resulting in, among other things. in that patients have to wait less time for treatment. 35,000 fewer patients are in line, and the level of investment in hospitals is record high. But it's always the way that ambitions about what you want to invest in, no matter how much money you give, are likely to be higher than what the frames add up to. When UNN assesses a solution where they think it's wise, when they're first going to do the groundwork and build a PET centre to which they've been receiving loan finance from the state, building office premises on top instead of renting in the private market in Tromsø, I don't see the big difference between finding a practical and good solution by building on top and even running on the rental market in Tromsø to rent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1333	‘In DN’s report of 23 January 2016, entitled ‘Fear and amputation in white’, employees warn of a strong fear culture in Norwegian hospitals. 30 hospital sources are the interview, and most say that the extent is so widespread that they call it a health problem. Penalties mostly affect trustees. The Health Inspectorate confirms that there are ‘some malicious working cultures that can affect both employees and patient safety’. What are the measures taken by the Council of State to ensure transparency and to prevent culture of fear in Norwegian hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1340	Freedom of expression is a fundamental value of a functioning democracy. Health policy often engages and debates in different social arenas. We want the employees, their trustees and their organisations to participate in this discussion. This will contribute to good and better decisions in the specialist health service and for society. Creating an open culture of free speech is a management responsibility. My impression is that health businesses are taking this seriously. All healthcare providers have developed alert-related procedures and guidelines. The Labour Environment Act’s warning rules state that sound warning of a critical relationship cannot be sanctioned by the employer. In the business meeting in 2012 and 2013, it was stressed that there is a great deal to be done to ensure that public criticism from own employees violates the employee’s loyalty obligations and that criticism should, as a general rule, be met with counter-posts. The political signals are therefore unambiguous. There shall be a high ceiling height, both for debate and for opinion. The series of articles in the Today’s Economy on ‘Fear and Decease in White’ claims that some leaders use it as ‘hard HR’ for ‘conclusion in the sequences’. Of course, if this is true, it is not acceptable. I do not have any insight into the issues that arise in today's business and cannot comment on them in particular. However, I expect the management of the healthcare companies concerned to address these issues critically – both concretely and in terms of learning. However, I would warn against drawing a general picture that the specialist health service is marked by a ‘fear culture’. The government wants to strengthen the transparency and the conditions of freedom of expression in hospitals. I have followed this up at a management seminar for the regional health companies yesterday. There I asked all the boards to acquire knowledge and follow up with measures to ensure a culture of transparency. One of the questions we need to clarify is how we will follow up and secure the rights of the elected workers. A culture of open exchange and good organisation of HMS work in general are prerequisites for the success of patient safety work. I'm going to follow this up in the follow-up meetings with regional health companies, and they're going to report to me about the actions they're doing at the follow-up meeting that we're going to have in June of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1357	It is over two years since I had an interpellation on this theme in Stortinget, where the Council of State replied that there should be no doubt that adding to Norwegian hospitals has real freedom of expression. Nevertheless, we have received many messages via the media that there is another situation out there, and no one disagrees that there is a rental problem and a rental challenge, and that there is a political consensus that one should have real freedom of speech. The challenge to the Council of State is that it is the responsibility of the Council of State to provide for that leadership culture, and I now believe that the Council of State has been talking to its health professionals for some years. But how does a department guarantee a real lead that has a hold and a culture that gives trust and openness? A keyword that I am asking for a comment on is the introduction of a quiet lease as a measure in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1362	I think the representative, like me, understands that when it comes to changing culture, it's not a project that you can implement in a short time, or something that can change in a short time. There is something that requires constant attention, and it also requires that top management is very clear. What's our grip to try to get this even better in the future is, among other things. that in our mission document we make a clear requirement that health, environment and safety should be an integral part of patient safety work, precisely because we see that patient safety work is a work that contributes to concrete changes. However, the relationship between health, environment and safety and the patient safety programme has probably been under-estimated. Therefore, the studies related to patient safety and quality and health, environment and safety and the Working Environment Act will also be brought together and work will also be carried out by employee organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1367	Yes, it takes time to change hold, but I'm probably more impatient than the Council of State. When the Health Authority can report that 44 p.m. Of all hospital units in Norway, there is a safety climate that can increase the risk of injury to patients, it is very serious. We know that the health care model likes to have a structure and form that makes it harder to express. The number of communication workers is known to be double since the introduction of the reform, and these are often in the lead. Now, state councils have created the Women's Country Selection, which will look at the alternative organisation of hospitals. Will the State Council take this into account in the mandate of the Women's Country Selection – look at an organisation that can contribute more to ensuring openness in the organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1374	I don't think the representative is any more impatient than I am. I also don't think any of those who have heard me talk about this to the directors and managers of health companies will experience that I appear patient in this matter – on the contrary. I believe that it is important to have good and relevant discussions on both the benefits of local management – which I see very much, and which are also part of the discussion that the Stortinget now has on national health and hospital plans – and, of course, the importance of the governance systems that the Women's Country Committee is now investigating. But I would warn against placing this discussion just there, because I'm absolutely convinced that regardless of what governance models you have, regardless of whether you can introduce local management anywhere, this is a challenge. It shows not least the numbers the representative refers to, so this is also a lot about management and culture, and you can't use the other conditions as an excuse for not doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1385	‘In the autumn of 2012, the Red-Green Government decided to strengthen the youth stage with 600 new teaching positions from the autumn of 2013. In the Ministry’s guidelines, it was established that the measure should be evaluated. In the media, we have been made aware that such an evaluation has not been carried out, and that the government will stop the teaching effort despite the fact that it has had a positive impact on learning outcomes. Can the State Council confirm that the project has not been evaluated and, if so, why has this not been done?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1392	The new teaching positions at youth were introduced as a four-year pilot scheme from the 2013–2014 school year to the 2016–2017 school year. It has thus been a time-limited system from the very beginning, and it has also been made clear. In the draft budget, the Government continued this grant for the period foreseen, inter alia: to provide schools with the most foreseeable framework conditions. The Government will return to any follow-up in the 2017 budget. We chose not to give priority to a comprehensive follow-up evaluation of this grant scheme in the context of the 2015 budget. At the time we took over, the funds were already allocated to concrete schools. In other words, it would not be possible to carry out a rigorous efficacy study. The size was informed about our priority in Prop. 1 S for 2014-2015 in October 2014. In other words, the size has been known for this long before it got attention in the media. The Education Directorate has followed closely the grant scheme for increasing teacher density in youth, for example: on the basis of information on the number of years spent in each school, in order to ensure that the conditions for the allocation of funds are met. They will also do so for school years 2015–2016 and 2016–2017. In the 2015 budget agreement, nearly 0.5 billion were allocated. kr for increased teacher density of 1–4. steps. In the 2016 budget agreement, a further 320 million were allocated. kr. The budgetary agreement for the 2015 budget provided funds for research aimed at providing knowledge of the impact of teacher density on children’s learning and learning environment. Two research projects led by the University of Stavanger and NIFU, together with more than 40 Norwegian municipalities, will explore how different forms of increased teacher density affect students' learning and learning environment. The research shall be carried out as so-called randomised, controlled trials to provide the most reliable basis for assessing the effectiveness of the actions. The measures to be tested are two-teacher, small group and several teachers for students with specific challenges. In addition to this, from the next school year we are launching four major projects within what we have called the Programme for Better Implementation. Research environments and county municipalities shall cooperate closely to test actions which they have reason to believe have a bearing on students’ performance in higher education. These measures shall also be carried out as randomised, controlled trials, precisely in order to draw the best possible conclusions on the impact of the measures on the implementation of secondary education by the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1407	I'm sorry, it's probably more than I have not read the proposition so carefully that we found out that this was already notified. I think most of us sitting on the Education Committee thought that once we had already made a decision on this, it was important that we followed up the evaluation in the future. It was said when the scheme was set up: ‘The routines, deadlines and guidelines related to the evaluation of the grant scheme are provided in Guidelines for evaluations. The Ministry shall implement and carry out evaluations. Evaluation shall provide information on the effectiveness of the grant scheme in relation to resource use...’. Now the Council of State uses half its answer to respond to and comment on the new scheme that they have put in place. There shall be some additional posts for the child. What we've seen now is that 165 colleges and 600 teachers have worked on this. In fact, we see that we have a greater decline in special education education, and we get an increase in the number of primary school credits with the arrangements that have been. [[The President clubs.]] So I wonder: why does one not want to continue action that works? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1419	There are two answers to that. The only answer is that from the very beginning these funds were given on the assumption that they would last for four years. That was the starting point. They were not given permanent jobs. The second is what happens to this sum of money, it comes into the state budget. It is quite natural for the Education Directorate to report that a pilot project that would last four years, and whose period is now over, is over. Then the assessment of the money – like all other money issues – will come into the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1424	We have all been aware that this was a time-limited arrangement. The aim of the entire project was exactly what this new government with its partners is about to do: to find out what works. Does increasing teacher density have any effect? So far in the reports that the Education Directorate has returned, it turns out that it actually has an effect. There's a greater decline in the number of special education hours, there's fewer who have it in high school now, and there's an increase in the number of primary school credits. So they're doing better. The previous government sent out a high school message. This government has not wanted to make the labour market compulsory. Now it seems that 600 of those teaching positions are to be removed. I wonder if the state council can admit that high school and high school students are actually not prioritised by this government, all the time we are now going to bet – once again – on early efforts at the smallest, which has been done since 1997 without any special results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1431	If I understand the Central Party there that you are not to bet on early efforts, then I fundamentally disagree with that. It is quite right that it is not the first time that we have put an early effort into this government and this majority on the Biggest, but the needs are still great. So it's not exactly, as the representative says, that these funds are now to be drawn. That's the answer in the State budget. This opens up the question: if you were so concerned about permanent posts from the previous government, why didn't you make them permanent in the first place? It was the red-green government that, well within the eight-year period – to say it carefully – decided to sign out to the school the promise of more teaching positions paid by the state, through 600 teaching positions to be distributed and that would be temporary. It wasn't my decision, it was the government's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1438	Question 14 has already been answered. Let's move on to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1445	‘It has been normal in the Norwegian labour market for people to choose to leave the labour force when unemployment increases, for example in the case of early retirement and longer education. However, the labour force is now increasing. What is the Council of State's explanation that labour supply is increasing while unemployment is increasing?'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1452	Developments in the labour force in Norway have typically followed developments in employment very closely. In periods of high growth in employment, the labour supply has increased accordingly. It has been reversed in periods of low growth in employment. At that time, the job offer has also developed poorly. The unusually high flexibility of the workforce has contributed to a smaller variation in unemployment over time. Between four and five quarters from 2014 and into 2015, the labour force has evolved differently from this traditional pattern. During this period, the labour force and employment went their own way. Rather than following a weak trend in employment, the labour force showed growth. This growth in the labour force helped to increase unemployment. Nearly half of the increase in unemployment during this period was due to the increase in the labour force. After the second quarter of 2015, the labour force has again shown normal development and followed the movement in employment much closer. The Labour Force Survey of the Central Bureau shows that the growth of the labour force in this period, from the second quarter of 2014 to the second quarter of 2015, has occurred, in particular, among persons under 25 and among persons over 60 years of age. About three quarters of the labour force growth from the second quarter of 2014 to the second quarter of 2015 came from young people and older people. Increasing labour supply among young people and the elderly thus appears to explain most of the increased labour force during the period under consideration. The Labour Force Survey of the Statistical Central Bureau is a sample survey. The statistical uncertainty is therefore significant. Statistical central agency reports that the workforce needs to increase by over 10,000 people from one year to the next before we can talk about a significant increase. Taking into account the statistical uncertainty, there is no point in claiming that after 2014, the labour force has stopped monitoring the development of employment. Random results in the statistics can thus also be part of the explanation of the increased labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1463	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer and for reflections on the question. The Council of State says that for a period of time, there was an increase in labour supply for those under 25 and those over 60. Such increased access to labour leads to a maritime and logical increase in unemployment. We are in a situation of free movement of labour, free movement from countries which have completely different pay and working conditions, and which have a much higher unemployment rate. Sickly if we have increased leave in Norway, it will be much more attractive for many to come and look for work in Norway. What I would like to ask is: is this part of the explanation of the new trends observed by more people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1474	It's a little early to say if this is a trend. This is a sample survey, with the weaknesses it involves. I don't have the figures in front of me here, but we know that many, especially from the EEA region, are also going home now, so there is a significant mobility in the workforce again. The information I have received is, as I explained in my previous reply, that there is now an increase in the labour force among the youngest and the oldest. In the case of workers from the EEA in particular, to which the representative Lundtigen refers, I may have to return to the figures for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1481	We see that when unemployment increases in Norway, the influx of, among other things, young people from Sweden are getting smaller. Corresponding effects also apply to eastern European countries, which have completely different pay and working conditions. Nevertheless, we have a sum that gives us a net job migration to Norway. My last question is: Is it possible over time to have full employment in Norway when at the same time there is a system of free movement of labour, and when the labour force – the young people who are skilled – comes from countries with pay and working conditions that are much worse than in Norway, and from situations where unemployment is extremely much higher? Is it possible to have full employment with the free movement of labour from countries that have very bad conditions in relation to what we have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1488	As I said in my previous answer, we now see that there is a significant mobility also the other way back, for example. Sweden, which was mentioned but also to eastern European countries, now that unemployment is increasing in Norway. But there is free movement of labour in Europe. There is full opportunity to apply for a job across borders, and there is a policy supported by the government. We now see that there is considerable mobility, but there is no doubt that there is a challenging situation for the labour market in Norway now, when there is increasing unemployment, increasing refugee influx and increasing labour force. But back to the main question: to what extent this is a trend, is too early to say. In addition, this study is a labour force survey with significant weaknesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1501	‘The government, following pressure from the social partners, has made some improvements to intra-corporate training. However, the regulation has still not been amended as in 2009, since the measure could be applied by firms experiencing temporary market failures and where conditions are particularly serious for the labour market. Why does the government not open up the possibility that grants for intra-corporate training may be granted to firms that are temporarily affected by market failures due to cyclical conditions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1508	The labour market measure Intra-corporate training aims at combating exclusion from the labour market by strengthening the skills of employees in enterprises with serious migration problems. In a joint letter of 25 September 2015, the LO and the NHO asked the Government to provide sufficient resources to implement the action, in particular in regions with high migration needs, to provide better information to businesses on the scheme and to look at the possibilities to extend the support period for participants from 13 to 26 weeks. The parties’ proposals have been followed up by a regulatory change in the autumn of 2015 extending the training period for each participant from 13 to 26 weeks. I have also asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to provide companies with the necessary information about the action. The government has also increased the number of action places for the unemployed by 4000 in 2016. I therefore believe that this provides room for increased use of intra-corporate training in regions with increasing unemployment and serious migration needs. In-house training is a good tool to enhance the skills of employees in firms that have difficulties in converting and that have to make changes to the company's production or establish themselves in new markets. I would remind you that this measure, like the other labour market measures, is a framework instrument which requires priorities within the overall financial framework for labour market measures. I believe that the entry conditions are targeted, and ensure that the action within a limited financial framework is most effective and promotes the necessary transition. There is reason to be cautious about changing the entry conditions to cover also general market failures. This could pose a risk of supporting enterprises that may not adapt to the market and thus contribute to inhibiting the necessary conversion. The Regional and Local Labour and Welfare Act determines the most appropriate measures to meet the specific labour market challenges. The scope of intra-corporate training needs to be assessed against other instruments and priority areas and target groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1527	Yes, it is right that the time has increased, and that the enlargements that the Council of State mentioned have been implemented, and it is right, as the Council of State said, that it was because the parties asked for it. We have responsible parties here in the country who are really raising the needs of the business community as a whole. However, when the reason for increasing the need for in-house training is that we now have the highest unemployment rate since the early 1990s in percent – and even higher in number – it is a very dramatic situation on the labour market. What is disappointing to see is that the government does not go ahead and take action, but must be pressured from opportunity to opportunity — even in the case of other instruments available to the government. Last time it was the government that initiated cooperation with the parties and made sure that intra-corporate training could be used due to short-term problems. It can't do that under today's legislation. Why does the Council of State not want to strengthen that possibility when the economic cycle is as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1532	What the parties asked for in the autumn was also done, and there was no need to drive anyone from chance to chance, to fulfill the wishes of the parties. The wishes that were, were reasonable and good. The government is committed to ensuring high employment and low unemployment now, and as part of the 2016 budget, an additional action package for increased employment of 4 billion is included. kr. The key elements of this package of measures are instruments that support the needs for conversion into different industries, such as: oil-related activities, in particular those targeting areas which are now most aware of the consequences of lower growth. I have not registered any claim from the parties to change the entry conditions, as the representative says. I visited Kristiansand yesterday and actually discussed this proposal quite specifically. On the other hand, the opposite signals I get are that we should be cautious about changing the entry conditions, simply because the situation is now so different from 2009, but we are open to making changes to the day-to-day money regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1539	It is true that the basis for the increasing unemployment rate is among other things. the oil price and its specificity in relation to the situation in 2009. But at the same time, it means that some companies that now have little to do can use it to increase their skills in order to be better rusted when the market – with the expansions ahead of us – comes back. Today it is possible to use intra-corporate training if you have new technology, new machines or the type of conversion, but it is therefore permitted to use it as an exceptional economic activity within the EEA system. Then it is very disappointing that neither in this area does the government want to go ahead and contribute to the increase in competence that it could entail, but instead ends up with a situation where people who could use a low economic period for something reasonable do not get the government's support for it. It's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1544	As I mentioned in my previous answer, there have been no signs to me or to the ministry that this is a desired change – on the contrary, the signal is the opposite. One of the main challenges now is actually to get companies to apply for the scheme. For the time being, it's relatively little in demand, although we think this is going to increase significantly. But the government is open to make adjustments to our tool, as we are, for example. have done so under the day-to-day money regulation. We have now proposed four changes to the day-to-day pay legislation in order to combine day-to-day pay with education and to combine day-to-day pay with the desire to establish one's own activities. We are committed to continuously improving our legislation, but we need to be sure that what we are doing also results in us reaching our goals of ensuring the conversion of businesses and the mobility of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1555	‘The latest data from the SSB show that there have been 19 000 more employed in part-time and the corresponding number of full-time employees in the last year. We know that very many people who work part-time want full-time work. The figures also show an increasing number of temporary staff, while the rate of employment declines and unemployment increases. This must mean that fixed and secure jobs are replaced with unsafe and temporary jobs. Does the Council of State consider this to be a proper and desirable development for Norwegian working life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1562	The labour market has weakened in the last year. These are challenges that need to be addressed primarily through growth in the economy and the creation of new jobs. In the last year, the number of men in part-time jobs has increased by 22,000. There has been an increase in several industries and most in trade in goods. Among women, there has been a decrease in the number of part-time employees. The representative Aasrud asks if this is a correct and misleading development. To this I have a two-part answer: for some, reduced working time will be an alternative to going completely out of work – in these cases, part-time is a better situation for most people. For some, part-time is a consequence of regulation or the way the work is done – no part-time is wanted, no matter how the business cycle is. The government will promote a working life that allows those who want it to work full-time. The changes in the Labour Environment Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2015, make it more possible to agree working time arrangements between employers and local trustees. This can give both workers and employers some flexibility and the ability to find solutions locally. The Job Hours Committee has recently given its opinion. The sample proposes further changes that may help to reduce the amount of involuntary and unwanted part-time. The proposals are being consulted until 1 July. After the hearing, the Government will make its assessment. Fixed employment is, and must be, the general rule in working life. New general access to temporary employment has been introduced for up to 12 months in order to facilitate access to the labour market for more people, while there are clear restrictions to prevent abuse. The amount of temporary employment increased in the last year. However, there is also an increase of 3,000 apprentices, of whom most of us want more. The proportion of temporary staff has varied some in recent years. Among other things, the number of temporary staff decreased from 2013 to 2014 about the corresponding increase that has been the last year. It is therefore too early to draw clear conclusions on the reasons for the increase in the last year. To the extent that temporary employment contributes to the ability of more people to try out in the labour market, it is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1577	I thank the Minister for the answer. I am a little surprised that you again want more flexibility in working life for those who will be allowed to work temporarily. Then my question becomes to the Minister of Labour: to the extent that she is concerned that there is an abuse of the system – what action will the Minister of Labour now take to prevent abuse of the system, when there are so many more who are offered temporary jobs in as short a time as we see here, and that there has been a particular increase among young men? What measures will the Minister of Labour take to prevent any abuse of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1584	I think there is a cross-political consensus in this Chamber that the general rule should be fixed employment and that the general rule should be full-time. Then a general access to temporary employment has been introduced for up to 12 months. We believe that this also means that more people can have a chance to show up and get into the world of work. We believe that it has been a necessary decoration. At the same time, as I said in my previous answer, we believe that after such a short working time for the law, it is too early to say anything about the effects of the law change. It is clear that when half – or about 3 000 – of the temporary jobs we now see, comes from an increase in the number of apprentices, it is a wild political development: we want more apprentices. I would recommend to the representative that we now allow the law to work a little, until we can draw more qualified conclusions about its scope – I think it is too early. But I will join the representative's concern that there are fixed-term and full-time jobs that should be the main rule, and what is desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1593	I record that the Minister of Labour has no thoughts about how to meet what is a possible abuse of the system, and for which she herself is concerned in her main response. Let me ask you another part of my question: those who work part-time. We have also seen that there is a strong increase in the number of people working part-time, and that a more-time paragraph has been in force for a longer period since 1 January 2014. We are constantly looking at reports that many are applying for the use of the multi-time paragraph, but they are not getting it, because the municipality or state enterprise has been cut off in their appropriations. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the multi-time paragraph can really be applied, and does the Council of State see the need to verify whether the scheme actually works as intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1600	I do not know what the representative Aasrud here is referring to, so in that case I have to go back and investigate, even if that is what the representative says – I have no reason to doubt that. I'm afraid I won't answer the bastard. There is every reason to monitor developments in the labour market closely now, to monitor the development of the part-time problem, and to see if there are any abuses of the system. No one wants to abuse the possibilities now in the law – on the contrary. The aim is to create a more flexible working life and to make it easier for those who are now outside to enter. But the general rule that you should have full - time jobs is established, and that you should have permanent employment is also established. I almost have to come back to that with the more time paragraph and give a more adequate answer in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1613	‘State Council Anniken Hauglie showed in the Question Time in Stortinget on 10 February that she had visited Rogaland there for 40 p.m. by young unemployed persons had not completed continuing training. How did the question whether we should now ‘use the momentum’ to provide them with completed further training? The Labour Party has requested that the legislation on daily allowances be amended so that young people can continue to work without losing their daily allowances. When, and if so, will the government change its legislation so that it can do so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1620	The general rule is that persons undergoing education or training are not entitled to a daily allowance. The reason is that they cannot initially be considered as real jobseekers or fully available for the labour market when they are in training. Furthermore, the daily allowance is a temporary benefit in the case of unemployment and not a benefit for education. In order to meet the need for labour market-based education or training, individual derogations are limited. Day money is a small and accurate tool to get young people to complete advanced education. Many people in the target population who have not completed secondary education have not earned the day-to-day allowance because of weak links with the labour market. Thus, opening up to longer courses of education under day care will not hit the weakest target groups, but rather offer those with previous work experience. Such access to education funding through daily allowances could be seen as both arbitrary and unfair to the many who have to finance the education itself. Upper secondary education shall, as a general rule, be completed without public support in the form of daily allowances or other public economic benefits. At the same time, labour market authorities also have a responsibility for the completion of further training. It can take place through the use of different labour market policy instruments. The labour market training measure may include secondary training where appropriate. In order to meet the need for more education and training for the weakest groups, as part of the youth package for 2016, the government has now set up a new two-year training measure. The action aims to provide young people who are not entitled to training from the county council with a professional offer at secondary level, where both vocational letters and practical letters can be current training objectives. In this way, a better basis is provided than today for taking upper secondary education for the most vulnerable group: those without the right to training. Young people with a day’s pay entitlement will retain them while they are on the training course. Action grants are received by non-cash participants. I share the representative's concern for the young people who are struggling to complete secondary education, which provides a lasting link to the labour market. The two-year training measure provides a better platform than in the past for cooperation between labour market and education authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1635	Thanks for the answer. We are all certain that, as a general rule, education should not be financed by daily allowances. There is no question about it here. The question is whether we can be certain that today’s legislation on exemptions is too narrow, in a situation where the unemployment path for each day goes. I ask again: will the Council consider opening up a limited possibility of taking a single subject on a broader basis without a missing daily allowance? Or is the Council of State in agreement with its party colleague Heggelund, who has stated that such a proposal would be a ‘falsity declaration’ and to ‘reward school graduates’?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1644	We're going to be careful to put in place schemes that push students from high school into Nav. However, I fully agree that today's legislation on day-to-day pay is too rigid and too flexible. That is also the background for now proposing four changes. Three of them have been known in the past – there are two regulatory changes and a legislative change. The four changes we are now proposing are: to be able to complete the initial training which you started before you became free to take part in training that can be combined with work while you go on a daily basis to extend the number of months you can go on a daily basis while you start your own business, from nine to twelve months and – yesterday we came with the fourth proposal for a change – to remove the rule that you have to apply for a job for three months before starting your own business. There are four changes that everyone intends to build on what the representative is also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1666	The changes proposed by the Council of State are interesting, and they will go through the Labour Party thoroughly when they come to the Storting. As an explanation of why the Council of State will not listen to a unanimous demand for better law-making, the Council of State in Question Time on 10 February indicated that it was more important to ensure that they completed their schooling without completion. In its alternative state budget, the Labour Party has strong efforts to obtain more through further training, such as: a self-employed Nav Ung, several youth action areas, vocational training measures such as higher apprenticeships, better equipment and the raising of professional trainers, as well as changes in the day-to-day pay legislation, which we are discussing here. But when the government really goes against all our proposals and only answers that one follows the situation carefully, there is reason to ask: does the government really have a policy to get more people to complete further training?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1673	I have just presented four concrete changes in the day-to-day pay legislation to ensure that it is easier to combine work with education while you are on day-to-day pay. There are four important proposals. In addition, I can mention – and the representative is probably also aware – that on Friday the Minister of Knowledge will present a big message on adult learning, which my department has also been involved in. This is precisely a discussion of training provision for adults with low skills or low basic skills, who are therefore struggling in the labour market. The content of the message we have to wait until Friday, but the government strengthens the offer for jobseekers with low skills and poor skills. Then we believe that unemployment benefits should be a temporary income insurance scheme with the aim of getting people to work. We fear that opening up longer social security funded courses of education via daily allowances may also exacerbate the intention of the daycare scheme itself. All in all, I believe that the communication that comes on Friday, the proposals we have in the State budget, and the changes we have in the current day-to-day money legislation, provide a good basis for young people without education to complete education and start education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1688	‘The Culture Council received a clear order from State Councillor Thorhild Widvey during Arendalsuka 2015 to look at tasks that can be solved elsewhere in the country. The Workers' Party supports the initiative to give several cultural tasks to the regions. The Cultural Council has been focusing on this for a long time and states that they are ready to start processes. How far has the Council of State come to consider the proposals that the Culture Council has allegedly delivered?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1695	I thank you for the question from the representative Haukeland Liadal and am very pleased that it is being asked. Norwegian Cultural Councils have been commissioned to assess whether there are administrative tasks that can be located elsewhere than in Oslo, where Norwegian Cultural Councils have their address today. The aim is to establish closer contact with professional environments elsewhere in the country, thus enhancing administrative competence and work and facilitating greater regional and geographical diversity. The mission is also reflected in the 2016 Norwegian Cultural Council's letter of assignment and is followed up as part of the Ministry's governance dialogue with the activities. The Culture Council is well in the process of preparing a basis for the assessment of tasks that can be located elsewhere than in Oslo. The basis for such an assessment shall be identified, inter alia: the relevant regional professional environment and the assumptions that need to be taken into account in order to ensure good achievement of the objectives. The Culture Council is working to present possible concrete proposals to the Ministry in June this year. The Ministry has not received any proposals at this time, so I am a little uncertain about what the representative is looking for. But I am very pleased that the representative Haukeland Liadal stresses that the Workers' Party also believes that this is right. We have strong art and cultural environments around the country. They're important to rebuild, and that's why I look forward to getting those suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1708	I thank you for the answer and am happy to read more about what the Culture Council itself is proposing, and that it will be submitted before the summer of 2016, I am pleased. During the year, the government phased out the node scheme into the festival support scheme, as the Stortinget has been told in the past. My follow-up question in this way is: does the Council of State, independent of the Council of Culture, see it as natural that the festival support scheme could possibly be a task for the regions out in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1715	I recently met with Director Vibeke Mohr and her entire leadership, and there we went thoroughly through what the Culture Council is working on. As the representative Haukeland Liadal also knows, it is important for me, as Minister of Culture, to have an arm's length distance from the Council of Culture, without over-control by the political team. I made it clear in the meeting that as politicians we are impatient about the work that the Cultural Council is now doing, but to oblige them to look at the festival support scheme and this as part of the work I have not done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1720	Then I just want to finish my question and my reasoning that I am happy that the Minister of Culture is close. I am pleased that the Minister of Culture, along with the Council of Culture, is thinking about a future regionalised problem solution. I hope – it will be my end here today – that the Minister of Culture sees the value of playing with the Stortinget team, and we in Stortinget are concerned about this at an arm's length, which we fully support. We are concerned with the Council of Culture's artistic assessment and technical advice, and it is a strength that the Council of Culture should also have, but we clearly see tasks that can be laid out, and then the regions and the cultural nation of Norway are strengthened in that way, spread a little more, beyond Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1725	I am very pleased that the representative Haukeland Liadal expresses what she is doing now, and it is very important for me also to stress it. I can inform you that in my meeting with the leadership group of the Cultural Council I referred to the Stortinget and the Cultural Committee's comment on the node system, which was very clear, in connection with the State budget, and I think I also read it to them. I was very clear that the Cultural Council had to notice what Stortinget had said, and I was very satisfied with and confident about the answer from the Council of Culture that they followed up the comment and laid the foundation for their further work on the festivals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1734	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘Only 7 pst. the art of the National Museum is shown today. When the new museum is finished on the western side, it will be up to 14 pst. could be shown by the art. The current National Gallery at Tullinløkka is a popular museum with about four hundred thousand visitors per year. years. The future use of this when the new National Museum opens is not clarified. It should be appropriate to continue to use the National Gallery to show some of the art of the National Museum. How does the Council of State assess this, and how will the further process be resolved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1743	I would like to thank you for the question from the representative of Bohemia. As the representative points out, we are building a new national museum in the Western Railway Station, where the exhibition area of the National Museum around doubles compared to the current situation. The new museum building will be of much higher quality than the current premises, and the different arts of the museum can be collected under the same roof. We're all very happy that we're going to have the opportunity. The national museum will move out of most of its current premises when the new museum is completed. There's a lot of interest in what's going to happen to the National Gallery building. There's been a lot of input and lots of good suggestions. There are also many opinions, disagreements and thinking around the area of Tullin onions. The Tullinløkka area is a large and central geographical area in the centre of Oslo, which is well known by the Oslo representative, Bøhler. The area is of great historical interest. What happens here, and how the area will be used in the future, is very important to many. The government has therefore launched an overall draft selection investigation on the future use of the Tullinløkka area in Oslo. The mandate of the investigation includes both the National Gallery building and several other State properties and buildings. The investigation is ongoing and is planned to undergo external quality assurance during 2016. It is the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation which is the contracting entity here. Through the ongoing process, we will develop different alternatives to how the area can be used in the future. The investigation shall include possible choice of concepts involving a limited investment need. The further use of the National Gallery building will be an important part of the investigation. The Government is committed to producing the different views; they shall be included in an overall assessment. The government will not decide on the future use of the National Gallery until the ongoing investigation process is completed. We will come back to Stortinget with an assessment after the quality assurance of the investigation work has been completed and processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1762	I thank the Council of State for an informative and interesting answer. This, as the Council of State says, is an important question for many. There is an active action group in Oslo called the Save National Gallery, which has collected thousands of signatures. The national gallery has 400,000 visitors per year. It is at the top of the museums in Oslo – only Frognerpark competes. So this building has a very important national historical role. According to the plan, it will be emptied in 2017/2018, so I would like to say to the Council of State: In the context of the progress of the concept selection investigation in this area, it is important to co-operate with the plans to empty the National Gallery – if not another alternative – so that these processes go hand in hand, and so that one does not run the risk of emptying before the government has decided on the development of the entire area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1771	I fully agree with the representative of Bohemia that this building plays a very important role in national history, and that it is one of the most visited galleries we have, which makes it very important – not just for the capital, but for the whole country – how we manage it and land on a good conclusion, which also has a broad anchor. To the debate today: If you read in the media today, you can see that after many years of treatment of Lambda in Bjørvika and with a decision that is ready to be implemented, some local politicians are going to repel it. It tells me that it's important that we have a thorough process, that we get a broad political anchor, that we do the right thing, that we can stand behind it and implement the decisions that we make when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1778	Thank you again for your answer. I'm not fighting a rematch, it's clear. I'm looking forward to the new National Museum, it's going to be a great building in the West Railway Station. But I'll also be happy if in the future we can get the full benefit of the beautiful building that the National Gallery is. The discussion is about which parts of the National Museum’s art – which in the future only 14 pst will be shown. of the Western Railway Area — which can be used in a good way within the National Gallery framework. There will be worse climatic conditions and some problems around exhibiting at least certain parts of the art in the National Gallery, as it is today. It may require some investment too, but it could give priority to those parts of the art that are suitable for exhibiting there, while at the same time it must be attractive. I want to say that I don't think there are any questions about whether it should be used in the future, but about how. I would like to know if the Council of State agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1785	Yes, I share the views of the representative of Bohemia. That is why it is so important that we have a thorough analysis and a broad and good draft investigation and quality assurance, so that we have a good basis for making decisions. There are a lot of elements in this puzzle that we have to see in the context of how we're going to use the entire Tullin Loop area. Then I want to remember what the director of the National Museum stated in an article in the Evening Post on September 11, 2014: « the basic representation of the museum collections in a historical-chronological perspective should be in the new museum.» [[...]] There's a perspective that we're going to include, that we're not going to break it up, divide it up. But it is primarily those who have the professional responsibility to take care of it, and then, as politicians, we have to be involved in making decisions about what we are going to use it for in the future. I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1797	Then we go back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1805	This question, from the representative Else-May Botten to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1808	‘The record high unemployment rate that has affected offshore business now needs a national effort to keep the activity up. There is a need for tripartite cooperation between employers’ organisations, employee organisations and the authorities in order to provide countermeasures. Actions related to the exploration, field development, maintenance and study of wells are very much needed activities in the current situation. Can the Council of State take the initiative on a Norwegian Socket activity package?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1815	Let me first take the opportunity to sincerely thank the representative for the opportunity to discuss this issue in Stortinget. The oil industry is the largest and most important industry in Norway, regardless of whether it is assessed for employment, value creation, export income or income to the treasury. At the same time, like many other raw materials industries, the oil industry is a cyclical industry. This demanding period of time we are now experiencing is justified by the fact that the commodity price, in this case the oil price, has evolved in a very negative direction over the last two and a half years. This has led us to go from a record high level of investment in 2014 to having seen reductions of about 15 pst. in the investment level from 2014 to 2015, we will probably also see it from 2015 to 2016. I believe that the industry itself responds very well by working smarter, doing things cheaper. I perceive that this is something that has been addressed by the supplier industry and the operators. It is also a work that I am very happy to have significant upswing not only from the professional movements that are directly involved, but also from the top management of LO. However, there is no doubt that this will create challenges for the Norwegian supplier industry, thereby also weakening the employment impact of the Norwegian oil industry. At the same time, there are points of light. I have unfortunately twice had to fight quite hard to get Johan Sverdrup to move on in time. The largest industrial project in Norwegian history is now on time. The situation had been a lot more demanding without it. Work has also been done well and targeted by the authorities to finalise both the Maria development and the Oseberg development, which both contribute to important tasks. It is clear that much of the success behind the fact that the oil industry has become like it has been because the authorities have set up research resources all the way. Under my leadership, under this government, the focus on petroleum research and technology development for the oil industry has been greatly increased. From last year to this year, we have increased the demo program in the Research Council, which is about using and demonstrating new technology on Norwegian base, from 50 million. NOK 150 million. kr. In the short term, there is a measure that will allow people to work, and in the long term, it is a work that will strengthen the value creation and employment based on the energy resources of the Norwegian base for generations to come. This is a work that unfortunately got weakened during the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1828	I thank you for your answer. There is a rare combination of unexpected events that are currently moving in the same direction, and unfortunately downwards. The oil price has been in free fall, there has been a heavy brake on offshore investment, we have western sanctions against Russia, and there is a demanding situation on Brazilian pedestal, which also affects Norwegian shipping companies hard. All of these things happen at the same time, and it's demanding. That's what the council says: the actors themselves do a lot to cut costs. It's actually done on a large scale. But many companies are now negotiating with banks and bond holders about debt restructuring and the deferral of repayments. We've already seen bankruptcy, so there's a demanding situation that many people are facing. Then it's good that we have a government council that's positive to contribute. But what will the Council of State do to achieve tripartite cooperation, to look at the different measures that can be taken and addressed? The representative Arve Kambe said in... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1839	Then the minute's over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1842	Now I'm very, very excited to hear what my good colleague Arve Kambe has said. I'm sure I'll do that in the follow-up question. I am pleased that the representative Botten points out that this is a global phenomenon. The fact that Norwegian suppliers and Norwegian shipping companies have been able to participate actively in a global and stony competition has served us very, very well. Unfortunately, we now see some of those who are hardest hit by the challenge facing the oil industry – not only in Norway but also globally – are those who have been most successful in global competition and have been awarded contracts far beyond Norway’s borders, while there is still a smaller but significant employment base based on Norwegian resources. We've reduced the oil tax by 600 million from the government. kr from last year to this year, we have strengthened research efforts, we have allocated more space than ever in both 2014 and 2016, and the bulk of the population has strengthened the internationalisation of the industry through the strengthening of INTSOK.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1851	It is a continuation of the situation description provided by the Council of State. Demo 2020 and research efforts in this industry are incredibly important, and there is also support from the opposition – let us be clear. I get no answer as to whether there is a tripartite cooperation and action related to it, but I can ask another question, and it is related to it: In this context, it is good that there has been a debate as to whether the dominant company on a Norwegian base, namely Statoil, should maintain its dividend policy. On behalf of the entire maritime offshore industry, I can at least say that the direct return on ownership is the first thing that is hit when they cut their costs. Then it might be interesting to ask if the Council of State wants to maintain dividend policy. And to Kambe's question: does the Council of State want to follow it up and move billions to the crisis-stricken West into the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1860	In this year’s State budget, the government has provided a package of measures targeted, inter alia, at: the county represented by the representative Botten, but also against the counties at the other end – the whole axis – in order to strengthen employment in the region most affected by the challenges now facing the oil industry. So the answer to that is yes. That's what the government is already doing. In my department, we start building a new oil museum in Stavanger, just to help meet the employment challenges. In the case of Statoil, the board recently communicated that, with the support of its largest owner, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the government, they will carry out a dividend reform this year, among others. to enable increased investment on a profitable Norwegian base in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1869	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-17.ana.ud2568e1882	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been completed, and if none of the three present ask for the word, the meeting may be cancelled. - The meeting's been cancelled.
