ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e111	The representative, Helga Pedersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e114	On behalf of the representative Odd Omland and myself, I would like to make a proposal to transfer the management of the investment fund of North-West Russia to Kirkenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e119	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e125	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e143	The background to this case is the evaluation of the corruption prevention work carried out by the Council of Europe’s corruption prevention body, GRECO. The comments made by GRECO were assessed by a sample set up by the Presidency, where all parties were invited to participate, all except the Centre Party and the Green Party. The workgroup's opinions have been reviewed by the administration and the Presidency and have led to the suspension of the day. In addition, the Presidency proposes some amendments aimed at clarifying and improving some of the provisions of the Regulation. In addition, the Presidency follows up the decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 12 April of this year, where the Presidency was asked to take the initiative to amend the rules governing the economic register, so that company interests held by the representatives must be listed here, irrespective of their value. This means removing the threshold to register company interests in § 9 of 1 pst. of the capital of the company or 1G in value. You have to register the company interests, whether there are one or a thousand shares, to put it that way. In addition, the name of the company in which they are interested must be entered in the register. The Presidency proposes that it should also be included in the provision that the form of liability of the company should be stated. There is information that helps to inform about financial responsibilities and risks associated with the investment and can therefore also give an indication of the degree of association with the company. The Presidency considers the proposal to comply with GRECO’s recommendation that the registry provide more information on financial commitments. It is then proposed to establish current practice in the second paragraph of Section 9, as follows: Shares held indirectly through a company that is intended to invest in, for example: shares, other securities, commercial property or, where appropriate, shipping shall not be disclosed. It is sufficient to state that shares of the named investment company are held and that this company is intended to invest in other companies. This obligation to register indirect ownership of company interests was introduced in the 2012 Regulations of the Register. The presidency then saw it as natural to limit disclosure. The Presidency said in the Innst. 21 S for 2012–2013: ‘But no detailed explanation may be required in several paragraphs. For example, a reference to a company investing in shares, other securities and/or property in other companies would be sufficient. If the public wants supplementary information, such information could be obtained from other public sources.» This opinion, on the basis of current practice, is also quoted in today’s vote. The reason why the disclosure obligation is intended to be limited to underlying corporate interests owned by an investment company is, of course, not that one would conceal the interests, but that one would avoid excessive and unmanageable registration obligations. The inclusion of the investment company in the register makes it apparent that the company is engaged in investment activities. This is the important information, because it is possible to go to the Register of Accounts — Brønnøysund’s Registers — and get information about the interests of the company that it owns, as it appears from quarterly reports and annual accounts, which must be submitted by obliged undertakings. However, this information is not regularly updated. In addition, such information is available on several of the investment companies’ websites. There are also searchable databases, such as: proff.no, which discloses information about company interests on the basis of information contained in public registers. The majority decided in June 2015 to ask the government to submit proposals for a Norwegian public ownership register. When such a register is in place, real ownership information could be made even more accessible to the public. So those who think it's possible to hide their interests behind an investment company will be taken into account. Then why not require each representative to include this information in the register? Because there will be a requirement that can be very difficult to keep up to date for each representative. It may be about investment portfolios that change frequently, perhaps from day to day, whose investment in shares and securities is part of the company's objective. In addition, it will not provide further information on the interests of the representative than is already available. This will, in fact, be a double registration. It is also companies that have portfolios of shares on the stock exchange and that are indirectly owned to hold shares in that company. It could be a production holding. The same problem will arise here if registration is to be required in several paragraphs. It will simply be information that changes rapidly and that may be difficult for indirect ownership. There are also pension-saving schemes that are a mixture of banking and equity saving – there is also an example of an indirect interest that it would not be practicable to explain in the second subparagraph. Section 8 proposes that property in industry, owned by a company in which a representative owns or is a joint owner, should be reported to the register. The same company will also be subject to registration under Section 9 on company interests. This becomes an unnecessary double registration and it should be sufficient to make visible the economic interest by registering the interest in the company. Therefore, the obligation to register the property in question under Section 8 is proposed. However, non-residential or joint-owned commercial property will continue to be subject to registration under Section 8. The Presidency proposes that the form of ownership be specified also by registration under Section 8. Under the rules in force, interests shall not be entered in the register of amounts, values or quantities. Following on from the recommendation of GRECO to list several of the matters subject to registration with amounts, the Presidency proposes that remuneration for autonomous tasks above NOK 50000 be declared by the amount. The same applies to financial assistance which a representative may receive in addition to his remuneration, provided that the aid exceeds DKK 50000 per year. Furthermore, it is proposed to include remuneration as an economic benefit subject to registration in Section 7. This applies primarily to remuneration received in connection with the transfer of an establishment and paid over several years depending on the performance of the establishment. Certain benefits from former employers are subject to registration under Section 5. It shall now be explicitly mentioned in the provision that this includes loans. The Presidency proposes that attention and anniversary gifts from its own batch or batch group should not be subject to registration. Since suggestions have been made on the contrary, I would like to remind you that the point of the register is to be open about matters that might create suspicions of bonds that might affect the representative's work on matters. We assume that gifts from our own group or party organisation hardly fall into this category. The connection to donors should be transparent and without potential for conflict of interest. It is therefore proposed that attention and anniversary gifts from its own party organisation be exempted from the registration requirement for gifts in Section 11, but of course it is not prohibited to mention whether you follow it most safely. The obligation to register duties and financial interests is the same for representatives and alternates. The Presidency, however, proposes that alternate representatives be exempted from the obligation to specify autonomous, revenue-bearing tasks above NOK 50000. Any self-contained revenue-bearing activity alongside the pooling yard is assumed to be an adjunct that a permanent meeting representative may choose to perform, while for an alternate there will probably be a principal source of income, which cannot be eliminated. With this, I recommend the presidency's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e182	It is good that the presidency now follows up the so-called GRECO recommendations, which it has been working on over some time, but where one has also very quickly followed up the decision that the Storting made on 12 April of this year, which reads: ‘The majority requests the Presidency to take the initiative in amending the Rules of Procedure on the register of the duties and financial interests of the EEAS, so that all company interests, irrespective of their value, are entered in that register.’;» I think the presidency has made an unwise assessment when they have proposed in Section 9 the exemption for investment companies that they have made, as a result of a practice that has been followed since 2012. The central reason for this is that investment companies are a very common way of organising a portfolio of shares today. Especially if you have a significant portfolio of shares, it is common. One then risks being in the situation that the most significant ownership interests and portfolios will not be in Storting’s register, while the smaller – and perhaps less interesting – privately owned portfolios will be there. As I said, many people use investment companies. It's a common approach, partly because it can make it easier to organise a significant portfolio, but also because it can have tax advantages, which the presidency is probably familiar with. It is also the case, as Dagbladet has written, that even in Stortinget – naturally, I would say – representatives do it that way. I do not suspect in any way – as the representative did not – that there is a proposal to hide a portfolio. But I think it would be unwise because the leftover impression may still be that some stock portfolios – and then most of them – will not be in the register. I believe that there is no doubt a breach of the intention of the decision taken on 12 April. I am aware that it follows the practice that has been in place since 2012, but the decision taken in April of this year came after it in time and may be difficult to understand in a different way than to expect that it would apply to different types of investment, saying, ‘so that all company interests, regardless of their value, are listed in this register’. In the light of this, we propose a different wording in Section 9 which also includes investment companies, of course not about one, for example. has unit trusts or other types of funds, but the type of company which is a normal way of organising just such interests as were the subject of the decision of 12 April. If they think it is foolish to adopt a different wording from that of the presidency, we also make a subsidiary proposal, which reads: ‘The vote will ask the Presidency to come back with proposals for amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the register of the duties and financial interests of the EEAS, ensuring that all company interests, irrespective of their value, are entered in this register.’ In that case, it will give you an opportunity to look at the wording that best takes care of it. Then we also propose a different amount limit in the proposals for amendments to the third paragraph of Section 3 and Section 7. Paragraph 3 applies to fees that we accept, and Section 7 applies to different types of assistance from organisations, companies or others. The setting controls whether the limits are set to NOK 50000 - from one dealer. That's a pretty big amount. This means, for example: one can receive very large fees, each of which is less than NOK 50000. If I can use myself as an example, since I have a column in a newspaper that – if I have counted correctly – I can get just under $50,000 for this year: I don't want to see it's untimely if there's a requirement that I should give up that I'm a splitter in the paper. Or if a person is thinking of a different type of assistance – let’s say that a large Norwegian employee organisation, for example, would provide substantial support for various types of help to political work: I would not see that it would be unreasonable to give up – if it were just under $50,000. It's also so that the sums we talk about there can be big. So we're going to suggest that we also use a limit of NOK 2,000, which is the gift limit that we use when it comes to giving things up in the Stortinges register. When it comes to the question of registration obligations for gifts from the party organisation, I would like to express my full agreement with the representative Hansen. It may hardly be about bonds that create problematic loyalty – perhaps one might rather say the opposite, that it may be positive for partial loyalty to have a new gift. But maybe that illustrates the difference in the thinking. We think that it is wise to have openness, unless there are particular arguments against openness, i.e. the principle on which the public law of Norway is based. ‘More publicity’ is the principle that usually has a lot of support in this room, but here it is perhaps – I get the impression – based on a opposite principle, that we do not need openness in this, unless someone has specifically demonstrated that there is a problem. I don't think it'll cause much fear if we have to give it up. I myself have in some contexts taken gifts from the party organisation, in special settings. I have no great fear of having to give up. That's my starting point. However, I would say that there is a relatively insignificant question in this context, which more illustrates a different set of thoughts. On the other hand, what is not a minor question is whether a very common way of organising a portfolio of shares, namely in an investment company, shall be part of the rules or be kept out of it. I'm taking up the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e218	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e221	Transparency: It's a group that makes jokes a finder on the web called Black Humor, who has a very funny sequence where they've interviewed people on the west side, first about what they're going to vote on the autumn elections, which nobody will answer, because it's a private decision. Then they come to Greenland, where I live, and interview people, and everyone tells me what to vote for. Then they ask the same people on the west side about pretty private, intimate things about their sexual lives, as they like to tell, but as people in Greenland get really provoked by that they actually ask about. So openness is slightly different in different cultures, and seafaring in this city -- just a few kilometers away -- is perceived to be very different. But in this room we should have clear rules on where transparency really lies, and the principle of more openness should be the fundamental principle also in this part. Transparency related to the economic interests of politicians is one of the cornerstones of confidence in any democracy. The fact that it should not be possible to hide things and that it should be «openness» is very important principles in order to gain confidence among citizens as well. That's why I support all that Board Vegar Solhjell said in his post. I'm a little scared that you think investment companies can be a way to hide ownership that can really be quite active and close. It's not exactly a fundraiser – then you have a rather distant relationship with it – but in an investment company you can have a quite active relationship with your own ownership. We're sceptical that it might be used to hide where you have an ongoing active ownership. Then I have to admit that we got a little late, because we really wanted to provide an alternative to the SV's proposal on the 2 000-kroner limit. We would rather make it a $6,000 limit, because that's what the taxpayer is, and then the tax regulations would have gone into the same place as the Stortingen's information regulations, and I think that would have been wise. Because we didn't get it, in a little stressful everyday, we're going to vote for the $20,000 rule of SV, but we really think that here one should have a principle that this followed that one should state it to the tax authorities, and that one should state it to the authorities of Storting, also according to the same rule. We are going to vote in favour of all the proposals that SV has put forward in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e232	Let me first say that I think it is important that, as one discussed in April, it is followed up by the recommendation of the presidency today. The centre party is uncertain whether one has found the balance point that would make sense at some points. We see the arguments put forward by the representative Hansen about Section 9 on investment companies. It may be complicated, and there may be changes that happen quite quickly within such a company, which may make it complicated and time consuming to be able to state interests correctly at any time. On the other hand, it is also a little strange if direct company interests are to be declared, but not investment companies, if the investment company is such that there is a very close link between the person holding the investment company and how active it is in the investment company. Then it seems a little remarkable if one has to state one, but not the other. So the fact that you're going to state the investment company, but not the interests of the investment company, can in some context be perceived as biased, and one should probably have fallen at a slightly different point in the opinion of the Center Party than one here has done. So I agree that in the case of unit trusts, unit trusts and such things, which are a completely neutral ownership without any personal ties, that's fine. But for investment companies, the Center Party is uncertain whether one has found the right balance. So I have a question that concerns the $50,000 limit on remuneration. What is the reason for choosing NOK 50000, and how does it stand, for example? the rules for the election campaign contributions to the parties and the manner in which they are declared? What is the conformity with that legislation? There is also uncertainty about the central party in Section 7 as to whether it is the right limit to deal with. We would have preferred this to have been subjected to and reviewed in the context of the legislation that will otherwise be reviewed at the moment, but if it is not possible to obtain a majority in favour of this today, we will vote in favour of the proposals submitted by SV in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e245	A brief remark from the Christian People's Party: After a closer review and in line with the comments I had signed in the vote that we discussed on 12 April on the rules for the economic register for us big-time representatives, the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 3, promoted by Torgair Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of SV. We believe that this is in line with the position that we have dealt with before and that we are completing in today's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e250	I'm not going to repeat what I said in my first post, but first to what Marit Arnstad said about postponement. What would be unfortunate by pushing on it, is that the feedback to GRECO is already a little overtime. The primary thing is to get it signed out. A committee is about to be set up to review the rules of procedure that we do at any time. There, the parties will be invited to appoint representatives, and it is obvious that the parties are free to bring questions about changes to this in that work. That possibility is there, and I wonder if it is not such a good working method in the future. I feel that we all agree that we should have transparency about financial interests that some might suspect can give bonds and affect our work here. The question is then: how many terms are required to be recorded in the Stortingen register of things registered in other public registers? It sounds like one thinks first of all of the situations in which the representative himself establishes an investment company to manage a wealth, but there are a large number of investment companies in which one can hold shares, and it complicates the requirement for information in the second paragraph, in addition to the fact that it is stated that investment companies like that invest in it – whether it is property, shares or whatever it may be. We are really discussing a form of demarcation, which Marit Arnstad was also involved in, which is practical, and which gives us an opportunity to register what is requested, without having to come into a situation where you have a continuous update – in principle from day to day if there are shares you invest in, and if you are engaged in ‘day trading’. I think that will be quite impracticable. So the question is, why $50,000? We don't have any scientific basis for that. The idea was that it should be of some extent. I guess that's about 0.5G. So here you can pick a number. I don't know if the splitist incomes of Solhjell are the best example, because it's a pretty open activity that's being conducted. The idea is more to assure us that no one has any bonds in the form of remuneration or services that are not transparent. That's the most important thing about the determination. You go too far down and you're in a situation where you've given a talk or done a job for which you might get a little more than a simple wine bottle – is it a salary you're going to register, or is it a gift? This can certainly be tedious and discussed in the future, but my recommendation is that we adopt this today, get the feedback to GRECO, and then the committee that is going to go through the Rules of Procedure can, of course, also address the questions that the parties have to bring in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e265	I totally agree with Hansen's representative that we're all a few about openness, but we may not be quite a few about what openness means, how we're going to practice it in a reasonable way. I also definitely agree that in all forms of recording of financial interests there is a little bit of 'government' to use a popular expression. It's a little bit ‘steer’ to register all of a sheep, in today's gift registry as well. Any kind of economic openness has to do with it, but then one way to do it is to do some work against the value it has in society, and then one has to find practical solutions. I think it's obvious to everyone that a day-to-day or second-to-second reporting is not a good and practical solution, and neither have we as proposers in any way meant it. But the solution is not to register – a way that has been common and used – I think I'm going to go in the opposite ditch. When it comes to pointing out to the representative Arnstad that there must be a balance point where one actually records it, but find a way where one practices some given times for it – perhaps a different type of investment company – I doubt it, but it's worth looking at it. I would like to point out that there is now a proposal on the table that does not delay what is going on with the GRECO recommendations, but that asks the presidency to look closer at the very point we are now discussing, and where more articles here show some uncertainty. That is our proposal No. 6, which thus asks the Presidency to come back with a proposal at this point, for a register of duties and financial interests, which ‘ensures that all company interests, irrespective of their value, are entered in this register’. It would give the presidency the opportunity to go back, look at it more closely and take it inward. If I get to take it with me, there's also a theme here that's worth noting and that's that all the parties in the Storting are not in the presidency. It is simply the result of the verdict of the voters – that those who are the least of us do not. But it is worth noting that those parties that are not in the presidency, all in different ways, have had critical comments. At least it could be an idea for a new round to have some process against the other parties to see if it can contribute to a anchored solution instead of a solution where most, as in the presidency, vote for – and not all, I now understood – while those who are not there are voting against. My advice would be that if the representative Hansen and the rest of the presidency were to speak out to the Stortinget, they could get through almost everything they've done out of work, now. They may be able to implement the GRECO recommendations. But at the point we are now discussing – where it is clear that there are a little different views and we are looking for the balance point – a postponement can and come back with a anchored proposal that might find it a better way. Finally, in NOK 2000 or NOK 6000, it's not so good to say what is the right limit. I'm pretty overconfident that $50,000 is a piece above what most people will think of as a fee that's a little bit more than a wine bottle. Whether the limit is NOK 2000 or NOK 6000 – I thought the representative Skei Grande argued quite well that one should follow the tax limit. One could also argue – for our representatives’ sake – that the limit should be NOK 2 000 for what is indebted. I think we're just leaving the proposal here, but until later rounds, there may be arguments for adjusting it, as the representative Skei Grande argued.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e278	There have been a number of speeches in the same direction, which have competed in saying how magnificent this change in the regulation is, but there has been such a remarkable argument that I thought I should at least make a brief statement to remind you that there are also some counter-respects. Firstly, I think it has been damaged to transfer some of the reasoning from tax legislation – what tax authorities should care about in order to calculate the correct income. That's not the question that's up here. The representative, Hansen, was just thinking that the transparency would apply, were bonds that might affect the votes of the representatives, which would simply restrict them in the exercise of representation. Then you will understand that having a share or two or being a splitter – unless you have to remind the public that you write so well that you get something printed that way, and that you get paid for it – is not relevant in that context. I would assume that the representative Solhjell would not feel that his independence was running the whistle if he had greater revenues from it. I guess that'd be nice to him, by the way. Soljell used himself as an example, and I have seen that he does not apply for re-election. I would think that he has a lot to pick up by trying out the reality outside this room, and that he might also return as a better representative. What I want to say about this proposal is that it is an excellent piece of work if we focus on symbolism policy in politics. But it's not effective if you're really looking for what the representative Hansen was after, that's to be open about things that could be binding on the representatives. Then I would also like to remind you that if there were really substantive issues you were trying to regulate, you could consider why the disclosure law does not apply to the big business representatives. Irregularity rules do not apply, and there are very good reasons why they do not, but there is no need to argue that this is a part of a more publicity. I would also like to say that it is strange that one has also not been able to find a de minimis limit. This means that there will be a lot of extra work to register interests to which there is no link between any public interest. And then you've opened a new front: what happens if you forget to register changes that you've barely thought about, precisely because they're so meaningless? Of course you'll find it in the paper. It's not like you're eradicating the possibility of suspicion. No, of course you'll be suspicious because you haven't been up-to-date with the reporting to the officials we have to hire to keep track of this. I would like to say once again that the proposal is certainly an excellent symbolism policy, but it is not suitable to really restrain the independence of the representatives. If you want to get an overview of it first, there are completely different bonds that could be interesting to get on the table: how much subsidies you receive, how many children you have in school or kindergarten, which are also heavily dependent on public transfers. If we first start with the suspicion gap, we're going to have a lot to do. But it's clear that as long as we have SV here in the hall, we get proposals like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e293	It was basically an article that commented on itself, so I have no further comment on it. But I said a mistake instead, because I said suggestion no. 6 from SV, and there is no proposal No. 6, it should be proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The first three of our proposals are amendments to the vote, while proposal No. 4 in reality is a proposal that can vote on regardless of whether it is the option from the presidency to Section 9 or our option that is accepted. That proposal states that the presidency should come back with proposals that take into account all types of companies, including investment companies. So I'd like it to be pasted afterwards. So the point of that is that it can be decided regardless of which proposal for Section 9 would be agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e299	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e313	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e327	The Presidency is presenting today its position on the regulation of allowances for the gross domestic product representatives and the members of the government as decided or proposed by the Enlarged Board of Directors. The Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission was set up on 21 June 1996 by the Stortinget. In the new law on remuneration for wholesalers, applicable from 1 January 2012, previous legislation and practices are continued. The Presidentship of the Grand Duchy appoints the Chairman of the Board of Directors and two other members for four years. The Additional Rules for the Commission’s activities, set out by the Presidency on 21 June 1996, as amended, read as follows: ‘The Commission’s task under the decision of the Storting is to determine, with the consent of the Storting, the annual remuneration of the representatives and members of the Government.’ Let me stress that the assessment and determination of the Wage and Wage Commission is done on a free basis, regardless of the presidency's assessment, and it has been important that they are an independent body that does this in relation to wage developments elsewhere in society. Remunerations are determined either at specified crowning amounts or in relation to other rates or amounts. The Presidency takes note of the Commission's decision on remuneration and promotes a unanimous proposal that the Storting should determine the remuneration proposed by the Enlarged Bureau. The Commission has obtained information from several teams to monitor wage developments in Norwegian working life, both from private and public activities. The Commission also refers to the agreement on the level of settlement of the year which, in previous years, the Wage and Wage Commission has focused on the expected annual wage growth at the year’s settlement. The suspension of the Wage and Wage Commission represents an annual wage increase in 2016 for the Wage and Wage Representatives and members of the Government of 2.4 p.m. This is based on estimated annual wage growth in both the state and local government as well as in the private sector. We note that in the end of the year, the Wage and Employment Commission highlights that social developments in the last year, with increasing unemployment and falling oil prices, have contributed to a more moderate wage settlement in 2016 than in previous years. The year-to-year settlement framework of 2,4 p.m. is based on the proposals of the Wage and Wage Commission and, in this context, the suspension of the Presidency is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e349	This year, as in previous years, SV will present a separate proposal in this case. The fact that the Storting has a payroll commission must not prevent us from making a political assessment of the remuneration and significance and signal effect of the bigots representatives and government members in society. When you regulate wages by percentage, they always get much more and more growth with high wages than those who have low wages. 2.4 pst. of 800000 kroner is considered to be different from 2,4 pst. of 200000 kroner. In particular, those who make $200,000 will sign it. Therefore, we are promoting a proposal where the remuneration is determined based on the salary growth that an average full-time employee would get by 2.4 pst. wage growth. And then we've put it on top of what big business representatives, government members and prime minister served and got paid last year. SV is at the forefront in the fight against increased differences. For us, it is also an important principle that the gap between the salaries of ordinary peoples – what they have for housing and bread – and what big business representatives, government members and prime minister serve should not continue to increase. That is why I am addressing the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e358	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e374	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e381	Media pluralism is important for the preservation of democratic, cultural and linguistic values. The emergence of digital communication has made it more demanding to prevent unhealthy power concentration through regulation. It is therefore important to regulate media ownership that is adapted to modern media reality. In the proposal, the Ministry proposes to repeal the Media Ownership Act. There is a great deal of consensus in this matter, and the proposal is supported by a joint committee. The size has recently adopted changes to the Competition Act, which is important when we repeal the Media Ownership Act. We believe that the Competition Act, with the amendments that have now been adopted, will take account of media pluralism in the context of media acquisitions and mergers. The proposal also proposes a new law on transparency of media ownership that maintains the tasks of media oversight relating to transparency of media ownership by the public. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that this could contribute to stressing the importance of transparency in the ownership of the media industry. In its recommendation, the Labour Party proposes the introduction of a specific provision of the Competition Act which allows the assessment of media pluralism in addition to the purely competitive considerations of media concentration. I assume that the representatives of the Labour Party themselves will present the proposal. I would just like to stress from the Christian People's Party that we believe the Competition Act will be well suited to take account of media pluralism even without introducing such a special rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e396	I refer first to the comments made by the Committee and also by the Labour Party in this matter. Initially, the Workers' Party was set to keep the Media Ownership Act, with some adjustments. We believe that this is not an area that works according to purely market logic, but is about something as serious as the infrastructure of democracy. Then we look at the landscape and recognize that there is no majority for this view in this room. That is why we have chosen to support the government's proposal, but at the same time we will try to contribute to transparency and to promote freedom of expression, the real possibilities of expression, and a comprehensive media offer. Therefore, we have proposed a separate provision that competition supervision in media markets cases may intervene if a concentration leads to market shares above 30 pst, and then with the necessary flexibility to change it in regulation. A differentiated media ownership is essential to ensure a strong freedom of expression. A weakening of ownership will include: could lead to more uniformity of editorial material, as a result of exchange agreements and other editorial agreements. We fear that this is not sufficiently taken into account in the proposals of the Ministry, and that is why we have proposed this provision. We would strongly want more parties to be involved in this. With this, I am promoting the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e405	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e408	The government decides it will. ‘promoting good news production and a wide-ranging public conversation in the digital media society of the future’. The aim is therefore to ‘stimulate innovation and innovation, while respecting the traditions and basic values of the free press’ in Norway. In the case of ownership adjustments in concrete terms, the government states that it wishes to adapt the limitations of ownership of media to the desire to ensure diversity. I have understood that the Media Authority will continue to play a role in contributing to the transparency and knowledge of ownership in Norwegian media. Would the content and profile of a newspaper be equal to whether it is LO, Life's Word, Trygve Hegnar or Berlusconi who owns the paper? Does it matter to democracy whether they control all media covering policies and societal development in a region or throughout Norway? The decisions over which the owners have influence affect the content of the media. For example, it is the owners who employ the editor in charge that define the economy and the framework of resources and make a number of strategic choices for the business. However, direct or indirect influence by the owners is not easy to detect. How, for example, to do this. detect whether a newspaper avoids writing abusively about its own owner? So ownership concentration in the media can lead to a restriction of freedom of expression. In order for an opinion to be read or heard, there must be available channels where the opinion is not available. With the Internet, we have had a situation characterised by an abundance of speech and information. The fact that everyone can now speak in principle can be seen as a strengthening of democracy. At the same time, it is not arbitrary for the pervasiveness of whether the message is promoted on Twitter, in Dagsrevyen or in the locality that is alone in its area – or whether it is called Jens Stoltenberg or Solveig Torsvik. There is still a high and stable uptake of traditional media, and the possibility of producing content does not automatically give rise to influence. We see that there is hierarchical ranking within some media, and some are considered more important than others. In the edited media, there is no general right to access. That's why this is where ownership regulation has been most important. Research work in Norway and internationally indicates that the need for regulation is increasing rather than decreasing as a result of technological developments. Increased concentration and consolidation in the industry, the emergence of new bottlenecks and new ways of locking media users to e.g. software, makes ownership still important. A recent example in one of our neighbouring countries illustrates what can happen when powerful people gain great media control. Last summer, the British newspaper The Guardian revealed that employees of the competitor News of the World, owned by Murdoch, have for a number of years been listening to telephone calls from both public and private people. Can you imagine that such relationships would be revealed in a newspaper with the same owner as the News of the World? Nope. In the wake of the case, several measures have been taken in the United Kingdom, among others. examines the relationship between the Murdoch family and British politicians. Many suggest that mutual close ties have had political and journalistic consequences. We know who owns Norwegian media today, but we can't say anything about the future. Changes in ownership take place quickly and can have major consequences. It is difficult to reverse the concentration of owners in retrospect if it is found to have negative consequences. An argument that has been promoted against the law is that ownership restrictions lead to the favouring of non-resident owners over Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e435	The current Media Ownership Act has been the legal basis for the authorities to comply, inter alia. the desire for freedom of expression and media pluralism in the media industry. The parties recognise that technological developments are challenging in relation to the current media ownership law and that the law is no longer effective in monitoring technological and competition developments in the media field. The development of digital distribution has led to major changes in the industry. Technological changes and changes in user habits have also led to new dissemination platforms, which in turn have resulted in the creation of new enterprises. With changed areas of competition, it is challenging to regulate a precise piece of legislation. The centre party, as we know, is not a member of the committee and has therefore not taken part in the discussions during the proceedings, but we have noticed that the seas of a clear majority of the hearing bodies support the proposals in the proposal to repeal the law of today, among other things, have. Norwegian journalism teams were critical and concerned that the abolition of the co-ownership law would provide unpredictable legislation in this area. In particular, it concerns the repeal of specific thresholds in the applicable law, which are not equally defined in the Competition Act. The Central Party, like the Workers' Party, is concerned that media pluralism is not adequately addressed in the Ministry's proposal and therefore supports the Workers' Party's proposal that, in addition to the other amendments to the Competition Act, a special provision be introduced with a view to assessing media pluralism. The party to the concentration considers it wise to allow the Competition Authority to intervene if a concentration would lead to market shares above 30 p.p., as defined in the Workers’ Party’s proposal. The Centre Party supports this with the proposals in the Proposition and the minority proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e448	The government sees it as a central task to protect about media pluralism. Promoting media pluralism is an objective of which there is broad political outreach and which is enshrined in both the Constitution § 100 and Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The aim of media diversity includes a variety of and widespread ownership in Norwegian media. It doesn't matter who owns the channels we use to speak, discuss, collect information and orient ourselves in society. But that's not the topic of today's discussion. Today's debate is about how the objective of media pluralism can be promoted in a way that is effective and that does not impose unnecessary burdens on industry. Today, media acquisitions and mergers are dealt with by two supervisory bodies under two different legislations. There is a poor use of resources both for the state and for the media sector. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee joins the proposal under consideration today. By repealing the Media Ownership Act, the supervisory responsibility of the Competition Authority is brought together, and actors are given one oversight and one regulation to deal with. It will make merger control in the media area both more cost-effective and more effective. When assessing a purchase or merger, competition authorities will already consider the impact on both price and product quality. The importance of media diversity is an important part of this quality assessment. The size has recently adopted changes to the Competition Act which will make the law even better suited to ensuring media pluralism. That is why I see no reason for a new provision on media pluralism in the Competition Act as proposed by the minority. At the same time, time has passed from the Media Ownership Act. The law pre-defines markets and ownership limits based on what the media sector looked like at the end of the 1990s. However, since then, the media industry has undergone major changes in technological developments, changing user habits and new areas of competition, and the changes continue to increase at an increasing pace. I would therefore like to stress once again that I am pleased that there is an overall committee that joins the proposal to repeal the Media Ownership Act. The media act as channel guards by influencing who and which opinions are released into the public domain. In order to determine the information provided through the media, it is important to know where it comes from and what interests are behind. The government has therefore committed itself to maintaining the responsibility of the Media Regulatory Authority to ensure public transparency in ownership of the media sector. It is a media policy task that it is not natural to add to the Competition Authority, and I note that a Joint Committee also supports that proposal. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e475	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e482	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on preventing body pressure in children and young people. The Committee has been consulted and there has been a high level of involvement among organisations and youth parties, each of which has made contact and input. The Committee believes that the proposal for a representative addresses important issues. Body pressure among children and young people is one of the factors that make young people feel the need to succeed in all areas. The Committee is of the opinion that there is likely to be a link between body pressure and poor mental health. 85 pst. by young girls and 30 pst. by young boys, according to SIFO in 2014, they experience body pressure. It's serious, especially that girls experience this. The Committee has referred the matter to the Health and Care Committee for its opinion, since the proposal is at the intersection of these two committees. No further comments on the matter have been received from them. The Committee considers that there is a need for more research into the impact on the health and self-image of children and young people and what causes them to experience body pressure. Furthermore, more knowledge of what protects children is needed, and what gives them the strength to cope with pressures, demands and expectations. The Committee believes that school and healthcare must cooperate well in order to ensure pupils, children and young people's well-being and health, from a number of perspectives. School is a good venue to help children and young people build up strength and different strategies to resist body pressure. The Committee shall be divided into proposals for decisions. I want to explain the majority's position and expect the minority to explain its position. The majority of the Committee supports the fact that, as politicians, we need to pay attention to the challenges of body pressure for children and young people. In addition, we believe that all departments that are in contact with this group must actively look for ways to address these problems through policy initiatives. The majority of the Committee, like the Country Group of Health Sisters, believe that reticent advertising will have a limited impact on experienced body pressure and, in addition, is difficult to regulate. The same majority believe that you can start as early as in kindergarten working for healthy attitudes about self-esteem, mastery, belonging, inclusion, respect and recognition. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important to point out that in the context of the Notice. St. 44 for 2012–2013, Gender Equality is not self-inflicted, an investigative work related to the labelling of reticent advertising was carried out under the authority of the State Institute for Consumer Research. In this way, it is requested that the report and the government’s assessment thereof be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner. The Labour Party does as the rest of the committee does: we support the intention of the proposal, and together with the Christian People's Party, we ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with a matter of how body pressure among children and young people can really be limited. Finally, a explanation of vote on the proposals by the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) later in the debate: the Labour Party will vote in favour of the proposals. 3 and 4 from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e501	The proposers address an important theme. To experience that one does not stretch to, and to think that one does not reach the ideals of other people around one, is a familiar feeling for most of us. Besides, I'm sure it's timeless. The ladies with hourglass figures probably don't think anything special about Twiggy as ideal, just as little as it was in Rembrandt's time something special to look like Twiggy. I know that the guys in the Abercrombie & Fitch commercials can make young guys and men with papal bodies despair, and personally I am not invariably excited to try bikini in rehearsals decorated with pictures of supersexy models wearing the same type of bathing suit that I febrile try to pull over a pale, but caught mother's body. I grew up at a time when Her & Mauritz advertising was the most massive thing we were exposed to. It was a different time than today. Today, everyone can realize themselves online in the blog and in reality. The meeting with what someone is trying to define as perfect becomes so massive and causes some children and young people to suffer health problems from it. The right has not been behind the proposal to mark reticent images. We believe that this is not a targeted measure, it would simply not help the problem. This government strengthens health stations. We'll create a room for this, along with other subjects, to be admitted to school, and we're turning mental health into an equivalent part of public health work. In addition, we will support the Left's proposal No. 6, to address this in a targeted way in the youth health strategy, and proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, to gain more knowledge about the theme. In addition to all this, to research, to attitude work, we also – and this applies to all of us – need to be clear adults in the face of children and young people. This is true at school, at the health centre, in mental health protection, but is very important in meeting our own children. My father used to tell me that I should do as he said, and not as he did, but in this area it doesn't last. If we are to build up safe children and young people with self-respect and self-confidence enough to meet the ideals of ‘I’m good enough — and myself’, we must actually show it by our own practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e512	All the honors of the proposers to put an important theme on the agenda. Ensuring that children and young people are good and amazing just as they are is important. We who are parents must be role models and communicate security, care and a good image of our children, whether they are small or large. And now it's time for children to grow up and get new contact surfaces, and they're connecting new bands. Rising technological developments have also led us to participate in a great deal of what is happening across the board, and what each child and each youth is doing. A snap button displays images on Instagram, Facebook and other social arenas, and new ones appear all the time. Yes, the impact is too many very big – big enough not to feel good enough or nice enough in many areas. We have a big challenge, and we need a lot more knowledge about this. We need to ensure that children and young people do not get hurt because of pressure. We as parents need to be supportive, and we need to care about what happens in the everyday life of our children and young people. Looking at other countries and what they're doing in this area is also something we have to take with us. There are several countries we can compare with, and the young and the children are concerned about about about the same thing. The government is busy with the health of children and young people. I refer to the public health report, that mental health should be given a greater place. The primary health message also shows that one will improve the prevention and health-promoting provision of children and young people. The increase has been high in the free income of municipalities in recent years, just to strengthen both health and school health services, including the midwifery service. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has launched a youth health strategy. The goal is that young people and young people should have the best intentions to live a good life and experience mastery based on just who they are. All arenas where children and young people behave may be important contributors to a better presence, where body pressure and other negative experiences can be well cared for. With information, communication and knowledge, this will help and contribute to a better everyday life for our young people. Public health work shall also address challenges such as mental health. Several reports have been ordered from different research environments that also deal with the theme of body pressure. In the plan of measures to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people, life-mestering in school will create a room for difficult conversations, such as: about body pressure. I am pleased that many organisations are concerned about this theme and have the desire and ability to do something about it. It's a lot of work, but we have to do everything we can to support them in such an important area. I believe that the government is conscious of the challenge of body pressure, and shows with all its actions, in messages and in ordered reports that a good basis should be given to make it easier for children and young people when it comes to this particular topic. But as I've mentioned before, as a parent, we also have a responsibility to care and maybe to be able to get a little bit involved in children and young people's experiences of body pressure. We support the same proposals as the one referred to on the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e538	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives Kjersti Toppe, Line Henriette Hämdal, Kirsti Bergstø and Une Aina Bastholm for promoting this proposal and thus helping us perhaps to move forward in the prevention of body pressure among children and young people. We point out in the preamble that the intentions of this proposal are so important that we believe that the government should come up with a separate case for the Stortingen on how body pressure among children and young people can really be limited. If it is that someone does not believe exactly the suggestions that are on the table here, but wants to do a job to limit body pressure, I hope we see their alternative, concrete suggestions for action quickly. The Christian People's Party promotes four proposals. The first is that advertisers use retouching and means to ensure that advertising does not show unrealistic and unhealthy ideals of beauty. That there is a connection between such advertising and the body pressure in society, the Christian People's Party believes is very likely. In the gender equality notification, an investigation work related to the labelling of reticent advertising under the direction of the State Institute for Consumer Research is mentioned. According to Councillor Horne, the report was completed in spring 2014 and, as we write in the vote, we expect ‘the report and the government’s assessment of it to be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner’. Proposal No. 2 is about marketing aimed at children and body pressure also children experience. We've all heard about the SIFO study, which shows that 85 pst. by young girls and 30 pst. young boys experience body pressure from advertising. This we have to take seriously. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposers have good reason to question whether today's regulation of advertising aimed at children is good enough, and whether it meets the objective of providing children and young people with safe frameworks in growth. On this basis, the Christian People's Party supports the proposals made by the proposers to ask the government to propose amendments to the marketing law to provide children with real protection against advertising and to prevent body pressure and the negative consequences it has on children's mental health. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for more knowledge and competence, and we therefore promote this proposal: ‘The government is asking for more knowledge of the reasons why children experience body pressure and struggle with poor self-image.’ We are pleased that this proposal seems to have the majority's votes today. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for more knowledge of mental health in children, body pressure, poor self-image and the causal context behind all of this. This does not mean that the authorities do not already have enough knowledge of these societal developments to take the challenges seriously. We believe that the government should now have two thoughts in its head at the same time: both provide more knowledge and start work — and do a concrete job — in order to counter body pressure against children and young people in the public space. The Christian People’s Party supports the proposers in that it is natural and necessary to include this theme in the work on the youth health strategy. That is why we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The government is asking the youth health strategy to propose measures to prevent children and young people from being subjected to body pressure through advertising in general and advertising in public spaces in particular.’ We are pleased that this proposal also seems to be able to obtain the majority's votes today. I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made in this matter. And then I would also like to inform you that the Christian People's Party will vote subsidiaryly for the Left's proposal No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e568	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e571	First, I would like to thank my co-sponsors for being able to raise this issue politically. The SIFO report ‘Retussed advertising and body pressure’ of 2014 refers to research findings that show a link between advertising, body pressure and mental health. The same report answers 85 pst. by young girls and 30 pst. by young boys that they experience body pressure, and they answer themselves that advertising has either the greatest or the greatest influence on the body pressure they experience. Children and young people are increasingly mediated, and in the streetscape they are exposed to advertising that highlights the physical appearance. According to the 2014 Youth Data, every fourth girl aged 15 to 16 years wears with depressive symptoms, and every third girl says herself a little naked. According to the study, there is a clear increase in anxiety and depressive disorders as a basis for disability among young people. The body press from advertising is a problem that I think is well documented, and that occupies broad layers of society – as we also write in the proposal. The aim of the proposal is that one from Stortinget’s page will do more to look at the context and insert measures. It's not that body pressure alone necessarily leads to neither eating disorders nor other mental disorders, but it's one of several factors, and the context I think is documented. There will be six proposals. The centre party will support all the proposals that are being made, both by the Christian People's Party and by the Left, subsidiaryly. I have a few comments on the response of the Council of State to the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative, in particular the last two of them, on how to regulate this in the Marketing Act. When it comes to getting such measures into the alert youth health strategy, I think it should be obvious that the Stortinge could agree to such a proposal. When it comes to point 2 of the proposal for a representative, that we need more knowledge, I see that the Council of State refers to a number of studies that have been carried out, but I think this is an area in which more systematic knowledge should be gained – especially since this is problematic and one is uncertain about how to regulate this better. So to the Council of State's response that it is not appropriate to amend the Marketing Law: ‘Prohibiting advertising with unrealistic or unhealthy ideals of beauty to counteract body pressure will create major challenges related to the narrower border.’ Further: «The marketing law of the day shall primarily safeguard the financial interests of consumers. The health of consumers is not a matter for the marketing law.» I don't agree here. If you look at these aspects of marketing laws, they're about ethics and morality. How can you say that there are no hard limits at first? When we look at the laws, Chapter 4, on ‘special protection of children’ and what is a good ‘market practice’, it says in point (a) that a focus should be on whether the placing on the market ‘calls for offences, dangerous behaviour or breaches of normal safety standards’. Under point (b), which I would like to highlight, it is said that an emphasis should be placed on whether the marketing ‘plays on social uncertainty, bad conscience or lack of self-confidence’. It is promised today – that we could not then extend that paragraph to say something more specific about body pressure, or used point b today, to regulate advertising. When it comes to marketing laws and health, there is today legislation to prevent advertising directly against children and young people when it concerns unhealthy food, so here I am not in agreement with the answer from the Council of State either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e607	Thank you from me and the Left to the representatives behind the proposal – a proposal that is undoubtedly about the basic quality of life for young people in a vulnerable phase of life. I take the word for a short post to make a few comments about the Left's proposals for adjustments to the text of the decision. I would like to make it clear, in the introduction, that the Left, which is not in the Committee, is behind the opinion of a consensual committee, that it is likely that there is a link between body pressure and mental health challenges, and that there is a need for more research into what affects the health and self-image of children and young people, and the reasons why children and young people experience body pressure. We are also in agreement with the Christian People's Party, which points to the seriousness of the SIFO investigation, which is as much as 85 pst. by young girls, they say that they experience body pressure from advertising. There is also a background for the whispering of the Left in this case today. The left will support Christian People's Party's proposal No. 3 and the intention of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox We have put forward an alternative to proposal No. 4, as we understand, we can embrace something broader. When it comes to the proposals for concrete changes in marketing laws, we refer to the response of the Council of State that there are some challenges to these proposals for call-up decisions, both because of the limit to what can be accounted for by unhealthy, unrealistic ideals of beauty, and when it concerns Norway’s EEA legal obligations. On the other hand, we would like to reword the Christian People's Party's proposal No. 1 for a transmission proposal. It is less used in the Storting today than before, but it is a less binding proposal, which is transmitted to the government without being weighed down by the reality of the content. It invites the government to take a closer look at the problem, and we hope that the government and the government will – also in view of the comments of the consensual people I call introductoryly. With this I take up the suggestions from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e624	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e627	It's an important thing we're discussing now. It's an important issue for equality, for public health and for power equilibration. In Socialist Youth, we had a slogan 15-20 years ago that said it won't be revolution as long as girls just count calories. I still think that is a good slogan. It's because it's hard to try to take control of your working life, influence your school life or take power in society if you use all the power to control yourself and your body. Just controlling yourself – trying to become something that market forces have been telling you all your life – can be exhausting, and it can be destructive. For someone who never feels good enough because the lady on the poster is a figure you can never reach, it's hard. Not even she herself can reach the picture of the lady on the poster, because the lady on the poster is reticent – often to the unrecognizable – and when the ideals cannot live up to themselves, yes, then it can be difficult to live up to the ideals. But self-confidence is not being repressed for that reason. The distance between the mirror image and the self-image may be an insurmountable abyss. Although not obese at all, studies show that very many young people feel too thick, they do not feel comfortable and safe on their own bodies. People who are dissatisfied with themselves are big stores. There is one cream for each part of the body – at least if you are a woman – and one is told that if one only buys “real” clothes and “real” makeup, one also becomes “real”. We know that plastic surgery is increasing in scope, and young people are told that it's not a pleasure, can actually be fixed. Dolls can be pumped up, lips can be pumped up, and fat can be sucked out. SV will send a strong signal that self-esteem should not be commercial goods. Therefore, we will limit market power over young minds. We will take a stronger step to prevent advertising and body pressure, and we will absolutely support the Christian People's Party's proposal today, in addition to the Committee's position. At the same time, it is important that gender, body and boundaries as a theme are addressed in a broad and broad sense in the lives of children and young people. That's why we have to have enough health sisters, we have to have a good sexual education, we have to have safe and accessible adults who can share and sort lies from truth, and who can help make them sure they're good enough as they are. We must have a school that promotes critical thinking and reflection. But there will always be a difference between being conscious and being immune. The massive influence works. I am pleased that we have gathered on the draft representative that is being discussed here today. I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those young people and youth organisations that are today a counter-culture, which is a counter-current. They have glued up patches of reticent advertising and have spent time and energy, weekends and evenings, on young people getting angry at the beauty rule, and not on themselves. They demand respect for who they are, and for what they do, and not just for what they look like, how they dress, and how they behave. Today we are dealing with an important matter. It's a question of whether the young people are going to have faith in themselves, or whether they're going to break down that belief by systematically influencing advertising and being told that they were really going to be something other than who they are, when they're more than good enough as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e647	It's hard enough as it is, to be young, and there's a lot of complicated reasons for it. But that means that young people don't need to be burdened up by commercial advertising about unrealistic body ideals, which are pushed on them through all the crickets and hooks of life. The youth himself mentions advertising as an important reason why they feel an unrealistic body pressure, a pressure that takes the form of as well unspoken demands as well as explicit calls for them to look like this or something in order to be successful and cool. There is no secret that advertising agencies who are given the task of selling a product often link the product to the body's ideal, nor is it a secret that sex sells. When images of already syllables or muscular models are manipulated digitally to give the impression of even narrower waist or even bigger muscles, the figure becomes a reconstructed and remote ideal that means profit for some, but that for ordinary people – and especially young people – means you are not good enough. This affects some of the most vulnerable among us. The objective of the Greens' policy is to create a co-human society in an ecological balance. The cross-presses to which young people are subjected are driven by the same enthusiasm after increasing consumption, which is also what leads us to exploit nature and resource base. In order to increase the consumption of everything from clothing and cosmetics to solarium and support membership in training centres, it is accepted that the mental health of young people is tossed into women. Youth and children are exposed to advertising that focuses on body and appearance wherever they travel. Several representatives have pointed to the research that shows how much especially young girls, but also young boys, feel body pressure. It's not a human society. We can't sit still and watch a large part of our youth think their body isn't good enough. This is a typical problem for us at Stortinget. That is why, together with the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, we have presented a proposal for a representative with four completely concrete, fully feasible and professionally documented points to address this issue. The counter-representation of intervention in the law and adjustment of this problem is a little difficult to understand. We have no problems regulating advertising in terms of smoke, alcohol, medicines and other things that are also harmful to health. We can obviously do it in this area as well. Intensification of Section 2 of the Marketing Act will not only be able to lift some of the weight of the shoulders of those who are struggling, it will also pave the way for a healthier and more inclusive society. There is no one who will forbid images of beautiful people, but there will always be plenty of reminders for most of us that someone else looks nicer than what we do ourselves. What we don't need is that commercial interests use their very heaviest and most sophisticated instruments to push an extraordinary and unrealistic beauty demands on our young people. I would therefore like to begin by thanking the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV for their cooperation on the four points in the draft representative. We will also subsidiaryly support the two proposals that have been promoted by the Left, and if I understood it correctly, the representative of the Left, Mr Breivik, proposed that proposal No. 1 is amended as a transmission proposal. We think that is constructive and we will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e671	It is an important topic that is addressed in the proposal for a representative, and I share the Committee's view that it is serious for young people to experience body pressure. As a mother of a 19-year-old, I see every day what body pressure the girls especially experience. There is clearly also a link between body pressure and poor mental health, and the government has a great deal of pressure on the work on mental health. In the Public Health Communication, the government determines that mental health should be given a greater place in public health work, and the government will, as it also emerges from the primary health communication, improve the prevention and health promotion of children and young people in municipalities. The historical effort of health stations, school health services and community psychologists is important in this respect. The Committee considers that there is a need for more research into the impact on the health and self-image of children and young people and on the reasons why children and young people experience body pressure. Furthermore, it points to the need for more knowledge about what protects children and what gives them the strength to cope with pressures, demands and expectations. The Institute of Public Health can point to an increase in mental distress among children and young people and also believes that more knowledge of causes is needed. That is why I am pleased that the Health Directorate has commissioned research from different environments on stress, stress, mental health, loneliness and bullying. There will also be important sources of knowledge required by the Committee. I also look at the possibility of using research resources from my department in this field. School is an important venue for helping children and young people to develop strength and strategies to resist the pressure. The Committee believes that school and healthcare must work together to ensure the well-being and health of students, which I fully support. As announced in the 2016 municipal bill, the government will further strengthen health stations and the school health service. Municipalities are in a unique position to also work with prevention, health promotion and early diagnosis and intervention. Psychiatric health problems among children and young people are a challenge. In a short time, the Ministry of Health and Health will present a youth health strategy. It is an explicit goal for fewer young people to experience body pressure. The overall goal is for young people to have the best conditions to live a good life and to experience mastering physically, mentally and socially. These assumptions are influenced and created primarily in arenas other than healthcare. It happens at school, at the university or at the university, at home, at leisure venues and at work. The strategy will include: explain how to ensure availability, capacity and well-coordinated services for young people. Issues related to mental health and the pressures of society are two of several key areas of strategy work. A proposal has been made by the member of the Committee of the Christian People's Party to amend the Marketing Act. The government sees that there are marketing and body pressure challenges. However, I am sceptical about the proposal to ban advertising that could create body pressure. What kind of marketing is it that creates body pressure? Are those reticent pictures? Are there images of models using brown cream or removing hair? It will be difficult to set the boundaries between what can, or cannot, create problems. Unfortunately, we can't always ban everything we don't like. Advertising that creates body pressure may already be prohibited under Section 2 of the Marketing Act, provided that the measure also infringes fundamental moral or gender equality. I ask questions about whether further regulation of this type of marketing would be useful. I also notice that the Country Group of Health Sisters in the hearing stated that the labelling of reticent advertising will have a limited effect and will be difficult to regulate. I would also like to point out that a ban needs to be carefully assessed against Norway’s EEA legal obligations. I am thinking in particular of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, which limits how we regulate advertising. If a prohibition does not conflict with the EEA obligations, the next question will be whether it is appropriate to regulate this in the Marketing Act. In this respect, I would like to mention that today's marketing law is primarily intended to protect the financial interests of consumers, not public health. Therefore, I believe that the most important thing we can do now for children and young people is to invest in good health and to strengthen the young people's own ability to resist pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e701	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e704	In my post, I referred to the gender equality report and that the gender equality report referred to an investigation work related to the labelling of reticent advertising under the direction of the State Institute for Consumer Research. According to the Council of State, this report was completed in spring 2014 – two years ago. So my question is: is the government going to present a case to the Stortinget on the basis of this report, or in what appropriate way will the Council of State come to the Stortinget with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e709	The SIFO report to which the representative refers was an investigation carried out by the then state council, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, and I have also said in the past that I have not seen the basis for prioritising it as a single report to the Stortinget. The theme we are discussing today, the body pressure and what we can do to counteract it and help children and young people who are under pressure is what has been the government's priority task. There has been a strengthening of healthcare, school health and psychological services, and it is the youth health strategy that is put forward in a short time by the Minister of Health, where the field of body pressure will be an active part of that strategy. Then I would like to mention a mission that we have given to the Swedish National Council for Children's and Youth Organizations, called Life Masters in School. They got a job to see how this could get more into school. I look forward to getting a report on this from them during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e714	I hope it's not because it was the previous government that wanted such a report, that the report now remains in the drawer. It is more serious if there have been clear recommendations in this report that the State Institute of Consumer Research has given the government, and if these clear recommendations are not followed, I wonder: What does the government actually do with reticent advertising, which we know may have a connection with child and youth body pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e719	Both the previous government and the current government started a lot of research assignments, and you get investigations, but not everyone is suitable to become a case for the Stortinget. What I can assure the representative of at least is that the pressure and pressure on the mental health of very many children and young people out there today is something that the government takes seriously. I believe that the government delivers both prevention, help and action to those children and young people who need someone to talk to, and who need help. Getting more knowledge about this field is something we do both through the efforts we have made at health centres and the school health services, and not least through the youth strategy that it is now working on and that is being presented in a short time. The Committee and the representative have called for more research and knowledge in this field, and I am very pleased that we are now on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e724	In the speech, the Council of State said that the current marketing law should primarily protect the economic interests of consumers and that the health aspect should not be covered by marketing laws. When reading Section 21 of the Marketing Law on Good Marketing Practice to Children, it states in point (b) that one of the assessments includes: shall emphasise whether the advertising ‘plays social insecurity, a lack of conscience or lack of self-confidence’. I can't see that today's rule concerns financial interests, which the Council says marketing laws only regulate. Is the Council of State saying that today's marketing law is wrong, and that one will then remove these rules, if I can understand the Council of State correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e729	As I also said in my post, advertising that creates body pressure can already be prohibited under Section 2 of the Marketing Act if it also violates basic moral perception or gender equality. Further regulation would hardly have any meaning, and, as the Country Group of Health Sisters said in their consultation response, they believe that the labelling of reticent advertising will have a limited effect, and that in addition, regulation will be very difficult. It will therefore be difficult to know how to regulate or design such a ban, and what marketing it really is that creates body pressure. So I also think it is important to take into account that if we are to further regulate this, such a ban must also be assessed against Norway’s EEA legal obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e736	I have to ask again, because I did not get an answer to the question. I ask for Section 21 of the Marketing Act where it says: ‘When placing on the market with children is assessed in accordance with Section 2, particular attention shall be paid, inter alia, to whether or not marketing’ means ‘playing on social uncertainty, poor conscience or lack of self-confidence’; This is part of today's law, it's not about a new regulation. I don't think it's certain that the Council of State will comply with this, or if the Council of State thinks this is something that is impossible to regulate. So my question is, will the government and the government ensure that Section 21 of the Marketing Act is followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e749	As I have also said before, advertising that can cause body pressure can already be prohibited under the Marketing Act, whether it is Section 2 or Section 21, and we have a consumer representative to ensure that the Marketing Act is complied with. As long as we have a law for this, it has to be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e754	The council said in its speech that she was skeptical about banning advertising that could create body pressure, and indicated that this kind of advertising might already be banned. Then it is natural to ask the Council of State what action she will take to enforce today's laws, and it is natural to ask what other measures than limiting advertising the Council of State will take to combat body pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e759	According to the marketing law, advertising that creates body pressure can be prohibited already today, and as I said in my previous reply, we have a consumer representative who is to ensure that the marketing law is followed. It's a responsibility they take seriously. It is, as I have also said, not always the most appropriate thing to ban everything that we disagree with or that we don't like. I mean what's important now is to give children and young people knowledge about body pressure, about the advertising and what they're exposed to, and there's also a job being done against the school to create safe children and young people with self-confidence. At the same time, it is important that we bet on health stations, school health services, psychologists, so that the children who are struggling get the help and follow-up they need in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e766	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e771	In a short time, the phenomenon of ‘body pressure’ has slipped into the daily language and gained status as our new major health challenge. It has, for example, also attended Question Time of the Grand Duchy on several occasions, where politicians have agreed that something needs to be done here. That's good, and it's also good that it's across the party boundaries. I think we're taking the challenges seriously. The phenomenon of body pressure has also grown enormously in the number of media outlets. A review shows that there has been a major change in production. In 1990, body pressure was associated with fanatical involvement of the body. Today it is described as something beyond ourselves, which increases from week to week, which can cause eating disorders, depression, anxiety and other mental disorders. Furthermore, we see that experts, journalists, politicians and other adults who communicate body pressure, speak as if it were not for ourselves, and that it is the youth who is most vulnerable. But the youth himself is equally unambiguous in it. A girl who wrote in the Evening Post says, ‘We have reached the point where you are obliged to feel body pressure.’ Our starting point is that body pressure is something that is created between people. It is maintained and reinforced by talking and writing about it, and physical disorders such as eating disorders need not have any connection to body pressure. Body press is something that occurs and unfolds among people, but this is not what body pressure is referred to in large headlines that I have read. On the contrary: the media, politicians, these experts, non-governmental organisations and others make body pressure a major nuisance, especially among young people. Body press has therefore become something that needs to be combated in order to get rid of everything that is responsible for it, and there is a lot that needs to be controlled: the newspapers write about bloggers who are perceived as the recipe for body press. The teachers are quoted in the media as saying that joint showering can be body pressure. The sanitary women claim that reticent images are body pressure. When school swimming needs to be changed because there is a certain risk that students may experience body pressure, they may also become aware that wearing bathing clothes can be disgusting. I think you need a different understanding of the body – instead of panic and anxiety, people, especially young people, can be encouraged to experience being a body in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e787	This is just a explanation of vote and to correct a little misunderstanding. Proposal No. on the left 5 is a transmission proposal, but we are going to vote in favour of our proposal No. 1 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e792	This is an explanation of vote for the same thing. A transmission proposal, as promoted by the Left, seems to me to be sounding good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e797	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 6, 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e837	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Right 45 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e848	It gives us a good feeling to have been treated here in the Chamber on three issues about kindergarten that have engaged us in the Committee over several months. It has engaged us because there have been many discussions and great commitment about the content of the issues. That's good. The right will be pleased when there is an involvement about the issues that the government will raise for discussion, and involvement provides the basis for cooperation on good decisions. As far as decisions are concerned, I must remind you that it is challenging in committee work when four parties are not on the committee. As we see today, there are many proposals that come after the suspension has been given, and until today there has been dialogue on adjustments and on who supports what. It also means that there are some proposals that are confusingly similar to those of others. I would like to thank the Committee on the Dialogue on Communication and Laws and for the mutual reluctance and patience of a busy interview. Of course, this also applies to the dialogue with the shadows of parties that are not on the committee. The Communication calls for the creation of an integrated, safe and qualitatively good childcare facility. The contents of the nursery are mentioned, and the treatment of the notification shall include, inter alia: provide a basis for work on a new framework plan. The Communication draws attention to the importance of ensuring the safety of children in kindergarten. The treatment of these matters today takes care of this, both through legal follow-up and not least through input into the work on a new framework plan. The communication also highlights the importance of ensuring good language development in children and of helping bilingual children to interact with other children and adults through good language development in Norwegian. This provides a good basis for further interaction in the community and in school. Just the transition between kindergarten and school is another important topic. Experience shows that this is a difficult transition for many children, an obstacle to minimising. The children of the Sami kindergartens must also be guaranteed an offer based on their own language and cultural heritage. A clear and clear response from the government in this overall work is to continue the work on enhancing competence in the sector. There are many good measures in the Communication that will not be commented on here today and are supported. That is the political debate. For everyone with an commitment to the contents of the nursery, I know that they've found out and will follow on to the follow-up of these. The suggestions there is direct disagreement about, or as there are shades in understanding, I know that I will be ample and clear comment by the different parties, so I'll leave that to the individual spokesperson. On the other hand, I would like to comment on the communication based on the Right-hand treatment of the matter. The government is making a clear effort in the message to ensure good quality in kindergarten provision. They have taken seriously the evaluation results, which say that there are considerable differences in the quality of kindergartens, including in municipalities. This will be corrected by bringing together the kindergartens around some important main lines. We want high-quality safe kindergartens that are available to everyone. This sounds natural enough as a matter of course, but ‘high quality’ has thus proved to be varying and demanding. We want a kindergarten that gives all children a good offer tailored to the individual's needs. We want the kindergarten to be a place of development and learning, which will lead to that when children go to school they will be safe and work together and interact with others. There is no doubt that we have many very good kindergartens and kindergarten teachers in this country, and they have impressively captured and created the basis for good attitudes to the diversity of languages and cultures that you experience in the children's groups today. Now it is important that we also have a common basis for this work in the framework of the kindergarten service. Children are impressively easily learned in respect of and understanding that someone has different backgrounds of faith, culture and thus different traditions to relate to. However, a major discussion has focused on how to ensure good language development for children through kindergarten. The right considers it important to have clear objectives for the role of kindergarten teachers in language development. Some have interpreted this to mean that the government wants testing, testing and conclusion for each child, which has never been described, mentioned or wanted by us. Such a kind of kindergarten is as distant for us as for those who have raised that debate, and our remarks make this clear. I experience that during the discussion about the words and expressions used, there is a common understanding and a desire that there should be clear objectives for the work, to which employees can relate. It's also a good help for the bosses to have such goals to deal with. It explains expectations and provides a good basis for cooperation. It is alarming when it comes as a challenge that many children in kindergarten feel insecure in their everyday lives. After all, safety in association with other children and adults should be the basic platform of the kindergarten. We consider this to be so important that the Committee asks the government to propose its own legislation on a safe environment for care and learning. Safe children provide happy children, and safe and happy children provide the best basis for mastering, development and learning. It's good kindergartens that work. I am glad that the government has also so clearly addressed that attitude-creating work against bullying should be part of the formation in the kindergarten. This challenges both children and young people in a good way. The main ‘tools’ in kindergarten are the adults who are around the children. The right in the government has shown that a bet on kindergarten is equal to a bet on increased competence. This has been followed up in the budgets and several measures are also followed up in the communication. A review of kindergarten teacher training in order to enhance quality is an important measure. Children change, the environment changes, and the education needs to be kept up to date. We in the Right are also pleased that it is so clearly put up for professional updating and topping of the competences of pre-school teachers, and that it also facilitates the building up of the competences of unskilled people in kindergartens in such a way that they can acquire formal competence in combination with work. The proposals on practices in cross-primary and kindergarten education and the organisation of accommodation with one another in municipalities are important measures to facilitate a good transition between kindergarten and school. We in the Right are of course aware that the continuation of work on adult densities and pedagogical densities in the kindergarten is a very central theme to ensure quality. However, this has been adopted and, in the light of its obvious economic impact, has not received our support here. It doesn't mean in any way that we don't stand by what we've said before, and I know that the council will follow up. A brief comment also on the legislative proposals: I am pleased with the agreed desire for a clear and good supervision of kindergartens and for the unanimous decision on an evaluation after two years of whether the change we are now implementing is enough. The propositions will also be commented on by others in the fraction. I will also come back with our explanation of vote as the various parties have promoted and justified their proposals. ‘Time for play and learning. Better childcare content’ is a communication that provides a good basis for work on a new framework plan, and proposals that receive a majority in this Chamber today clarify and deepen this. I'm glad we've experienced the great interest and the great commitment. I'm glad that the Storting has shifted the attention from quantity to quality, and I'm glad that the Council of State is so clear that the most important thing is that we give our children the best possible starting point for further participation in education, social and work life. The best thing for the child must be a sun - clear guide, and we as officers, employees, politicians or others have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e884	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e887	The representative said he was pleased with the commitment and interest associated with these nursery matters. Well, what he calls commitment and interest, others call childish riots and strong unrest in an entire sector. There are therefore many of the proposals relating to the notification and the issues we are dealing with today being stopped by the bulk of the population. In the past, the government has spent a lot of time saying that people really just misunderstand the government's policy, that we really do agree. No one should really be measured according to the language norm, and increased requirements for documentation were not really that, although it was so formulated in the legal text. Dividend description shall not impose any requirements on the young. No, the researchers, the supervision, the Education Association, the Trade Union, the FAU, the School Board and thousands of kindergarten staff and a total opposition have only misunderstood. What does the representative Harberg think about an overall industry going against the government's kindergarten policy? What does the government here understand, which the industry itself does not understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e896	I record that someone is calling what has now happened, a rebellion, and it may well be described as, but when it is described as a rebellion against government policy when the main thing has been something that is not in any of the three cases we are dealing with today, then it is not a rebellion against what the government believes, then one must at least take the starting point of what is in the cases. It says, for example. clearly that there should be no evidence for individual children, that there should be no increased documentation, but that it is about facilitating good and common activity against the kindergarten groups. There's been one of the front stories in the uprising, and it doesn't really have a root in the things that we have on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e901	I record that the representative of the Right Party, like the Council of State, continues to draw a story that people have just misunderstood here. But I think the industry itself, like the opposition in Stortinget, is well capable of reading the texts and is therefore concerned about the direction in which the government goes. But on top of something else mentioned by the representative in his statement, namely that the standard of living is adopted, but because of the economic consequences, the government will not say anything about it in today's decision. When you are able to present a quality report in kindergarten, but jump over the top quality factor in kindergartens, namely several employees with the right education, this message is a belly pad. That the government is not listening, we're used to, but what does Harberg really think that the government is not choosing to follow up the Stortingen's request decision of December last year, where the Stortinget ordered the government to come back with a plan to achieve this standard by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e910	The Storting representative Harberg has full confidence that it will come back to the government, but, as the Trettebergstuen very well know, it requires money to work with a norm that should have greater participation of adults. I also do not record that the Workers' Party has spent a lot of money on it when they now deal with the budget and the revised budget, and then we will see how much they come with. This is part of the budget. This will be followed up just as it has been asked, it has been confirmed by the Council of State, and we have confirmed that. And then there's a little shade when Trittbergstien says that the most important thing is more employees. Yes, it's also important, but the most important thing is to make sure that all those who are there now are built up to be good kindergarten teachers, and that education gives good kindergarten teachers, and then we're going to work on both staffing standards and pedagogical densities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e917	They have thus provided a report on quality in kindergartens, where several employees with the right skills are not mentioned in a word. But so did an overall opposition in Stortinget, with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, look forward to waiting for this government to come back with a solution to how to meet the manning norm in 2020. That is why we decided in this Chamber last December that the government would come back with a plan to achieve this, not with a sum of money in a decision, but with a plan. We haven't seen anything else. We had expected that plan and how to reach the requirement for a standard of manning in 2020 would be mentioned in a quality report, but that did not happen. We expected to comply with Storting’s request decisions in connection with the revised state budget, but this has not happened either. The councils have previously written that they should see the decision on the standard of living in connection with the non-discrimination of the economy in private and municipal kindergartens, but that did not happen either. Why can't this government tell Stortinget how to achieve the standard of manning in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e924	The Government shall be allowed to answer for the Government. What I can answer for with my very straight back is that the government in this message takes very seriously to make available the resources that are needed to ensure that there is good competence in the kindergarten, and one has been clear that first we should work actively to give those who want to build up, those who want to have a high level of competence, those who want a formal education, an opportunity to get it. It is well-managed in previous budgets and also in this communication, and it is an important first step, and then we shall come back to how we should follow up both the density of staff and the density of kindergarten teachers, and possibly other child-care skills that have their place in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e929	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that a joint committee asks the government to propose its own legislation on a safe care and learning environment according to the model of the training law §9a, a law that deals with how to work with bullying. I have to ask the representative Svein Harberg a question. When introducing such a law, it must be followed up, and one of the important things to be able to follow new laws in kindergarten is that you have enough competent adults who are able to follow the laws that this house adopts. Today there is a screaming need for a higher crew in kindergarten. How do you imagine that this law will have any effect if nothing is done in relation to the standard of manning?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e937	First of all, at least there's nothing done about this if we don't decide, and that's the important thing. Now we've formed that base. In addition, it is well associated with the fact that we now have this commitment to building skills among those who are in kindergarten, and bullying is a topic that has not been as topical as all those who are now working in kindergarten took their education. Detecting that bullying is happening in the kindergarten can be demanding. We know that it happens, and we think it's essentially unconscious actions, but then you have to have the skills to look at it and figure out how to follow it on, how to create those attitudes in the children by saying no, you know, what we don't do. This challenges adults in kindergarten to grasp this, those who are there now, and those who are coming later – now we have laid the foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e942	With all due respect for the representative Harberg, I think it's rather arrogant to dismiss the pediatric uprising as a misunderstanding. I don't think it's the nursery insurgents, who work a lot in the sector themselves, and who know this everyday better than any of us in this room, who have misunderstood. It's the government and the right-hand side of the Stortinget that keep listening to the sector. Perhaps the best example of that is the race that was initially designed to create new framework plans without anchoring in profession. So there the government has been clear that the new curricula for the school will be created in close cooperation with the profession itself. But in kindergartens it is suddenly not going to apply. It's a dangerous bypass of the most important competence we have, namely those who do the job themselves. Why does the representative Harberg think it is wise to listen to teachers in school, but not to kindergarten teachers in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e947	The representative Harberg thinks it's a good idea to listen to all the recordings that are coming. I have also not rejected the problem that this kindergarten uprising has been facing, especially about single children and language. I've just said that's not what's in these cases. We agree with them in their concerns if there is such a development in kindergarten. I can read from Meldning. Art. No. 19 for 2015–2016, it says: ‘The aim is that the language code should help to raise awareness of the staff of children’s language development through kindergarten years. The indicative language code shall provide a common reference point for the use of language work in kindergarten, but performance targets shall not be set for the benefit of the individual child.» That's exactly what has been said, that's what the government says. Here it is quite clear in the papers that it should not be, and then I say that something is not mentioned in the case papers, and it is not disrespectful for those who have said it – I understand their concern, and that concern we would also have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e957	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e960	As case spokesman for two cases, I choose to take one at a time. The first one is Prop. 103 L for 2015–2016, which applies to changes in the Kindergarten Act and the Training Act. I would first of all like to thank the Committee for a thorough and important work on a legislative change that applies to the very least and to those who have special needs. There is a joint committee that is concerned that all children consume a good childcare provision, regardless of when one is born or if one needs special arrangements for different reasons. When it comes to special educational assistance, I would like to point out that this helps to ensure that children receive the help they need to deal with problems and challenges, such as: associated with language and behaviour, at an early stage. This help may also help to reduce the risk that the child will need special education later in the course of education. The design of the assessment theme and content of the Training Act is to a large extent linked to special education for pupils and not children in need of special pedagogical assistance. The Barnhage Law Committee proposed in NOU 2012:1 for the benefit of children, therefore changes in the content of the expert assessment. In the proposal, the Ministry, on behalf of the Government, proposes that the legislation on children under the compulsory age of training be moved from the Training Act to the Kinderhagen Act. This means, among other things: that the right to special pedagogical assistance and the right to sign language training will be governed by the Law on kindergarten. Most children receiving special educational assistance go to kindergarten. The government believes it is an advantage that the legislation on children under the age of compulsory education is being incorporated into the same law. This will provide a more logical location for the code and provide a more holistic and user-friendly code. The Ministry, on behalf of the Government, proposes in the proposal some changes to the current law. One of the proposals is that the PP service should support kindergartens in the development of skills and organisation. The proposal means that kindergartens can be helped to develop the ordinary provision of children with special needs. With the assistance of the PP service, kindergartens can be better placed to put their efforts in place early. The Government also proposes that the local authority’s obligation to provide facilities for children with disabilities should be laid down in the Children’s Homes Act. In addition, the Ministry proposes that children and parents be given the right to appeal to the county council in the municipality's decision on the organisation. In addition, the government suggests that the conditions for eligibility for sign language training be changed. The change means strengthening the right to language training for children under the age of compulsory training. The Government also proposes that decisions by the local authorities on special pedagogical or sign language training should be binding until a new decision has been taken by the local authority. The proposal will contribute to children no longer experiencing interruptions in special educational assistance or language training. In this proposition, the Ministry of Knowledge, on behalf of the Government, also proposes changes to the laws aimed at helping parents and children to have shorter waiting time for nursery facilities. It is proposed that children born in September or October should be entitled to kindergarten from the month in which they reach the age of one year. In addition, the proposal contains some other changes to the Kindergarten Act. These are all changes that lead us to a step in the right direction for all children to have the right to babysitting from the month when they reach the age of one year. Parents with children who have decisions on special pedagogical or sign language training are also entitled to exemption from parental payment at the time the child receives assistance or training. One of the objectives of the scheme is to contribute to high levels of childcare participation for children in need of such assistance. 2015 figures show that over 96 pst. by children aged three to five years in Norway, are in kindergarten, and by children who have decisions on special educational assistance, there is also a high level of childcare participation. The transfer of the legal home for the right to special pedagogical assistance from the Training Act to the Kinderhagen Act has previously been proposed. by the Barnehagelov selection in NOU 2012:1, Best for the children, and by the Midlyng selection in NOU 2009:18, Right to learn. Then report. St. 24 for 2012-2013, the Future Children's Home, was discussed in the Family and Culture Committee in spring 2013, and supported the proposal for the transfer to the Children's Homes Act. It is also important to stress that children under the compulsory training age who are not in kindergarten are still entitled to special educational assistance as they are today. The right to special pedagogical assistance applies regardless of whether a person is in kindergarten or not. It is also important to point out the need for good cooperation with other relevant municipal services, during the health stations of this municipality. The Government's proposal continues the legalisation of the local authority's responsibility to ensure that the right to special pedagogical assistance is fulfilled. One also suggests that the Children's Court Act provides that when parents ask for special pedagogical help for their children, the municipality has an obligation to ensure that the PP service produces an expert assessment, and that the municipality then takes a decision. A consensus committee supports this. It is important to point out that disabled people are guaranteed the right to participate in society by national law and international conventions in the same way as those with disabilities. This means that children with disabilities should be able to participate in kindergartens similar to others. In Norway, approx. 60,000 children were born annually. All newborns in Norway are screened for hearing loss by a simple test in the maternity ward. The incidence of hearing loss in newborns is 1 to 2 per million. In addition, children will be given hearing loss at a later time. The number of children with hearing impairment in kindergarten is unknown, and there is generally little knowledge about this group of children and the provision of children in kindergarten. But since about 97 pst. Of all four-year-olds in Norway, there is reason to believe that most children with hearing impairment also go there. The provision of children with hearing impairment is organised differently in municipalities. Some municipalities have created their own kindergartens, which are specially designed for children with hearing impairment, where a sign-language environment is offered. In some cases, the provision of skyscrapers is necessary to enable the child to benefit from the provision of special pedagogical assistance or sign language training. The availability of the children in question may be far from home, and it may be a particular burden for parents to carry the child to help or training. Therefore, the rights of children entitled to special pedagogical assistance and language training should be extended free of charge. The government shows in the political platform that it will work for increased flexibility in the nursery. Kindergarten is an important social institution for a large number of people, and the right to kindergarten gives children the opportunity to participate in a community and to develop independently of the economic or social situation of their parents. For many parents, the right to kindergarten is decisive for their economy and the organisation of everyday life. I am pleased that we have a government that wants to make sure that several children can benefit from the right to babysitting, and that the government proposes to give more children the right place by reducing the waiting time for parents with children born in September or October. This is a step in the right direction. Then to Prop. 33 L for 2015–2016 on changes to the Kindergarten Act, which deals with supervision, etc. As rapporteurs, I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough and important work on a change in the law that applies to the very least, and that concerns most children more and more. Norwegian kindergartens keep a high quality and make important contributions to a childhood filled with mastery and meaningful association. As a mother, a grandmother and a big-time politician, I am happy to represent a committee that puts the contents of the nursery on the agenda with changes in the nursery law. On behalf of the Government, the Ministry of Knowledge has presented the proposal for amendments to the Children's Homes Act on the supervision, documentation and assessment, the introduction of learning kindergarten teachers and the clarification that the Ministry can provide a framework for the content and tasks of kindergartens. The government suggests that the State should be allowed to supervise kindergartens. The proposal meets the government's objective of introducing independent supervision in the nursery sector. In addition, the Government proposes that the County House of County to supervise the use of financial means by the municipality should be clarified in the Children's Gardens Act. This is a follow-up to Prop. 98 L for 2011-2012, where the Ministry announced that this assessment would be carried out in future legislative work. In this proposition, the Ministry, on behalf of the Government, proposes that the rules on State supervision and guidance be separated into its own destinations. It is clarified that the supervision of the municipality as a child is a purely statutory body and that the supervision is to be carried out in accordance with the municipal law. In order to ensure early work and the provision of childcare facilities for child groups and the individual child, the government proposes that the Childcare Act should clarify the need to document and evaluate educational provision. The bill means that Kinderhagen will have a clear place to handle personal data and will ensure that documentation and assessment will last for the protection of the privacy of children. The Ministry also proposes that the Kindergarten Act should be amended in such a way as to replace the notion of ‘preschool teacher’ with the term ‘childcare teacher’. It is also suggested that the Children's Court Act should specify that the Ministry may prescribe the content and tasks of the nursery. The choice of parent is important. Parents should be able to choose if they want to benefit from kindergarten, and if they do, they should be able to choose between different kindergarten options and have an impact on the way their children's nursery is operated. Kindergarten security is particularly important. Parents should feel assured that the one-year-old or the five-year-old is comfortable and safe in all the ten-year-old moms and dads at work. When it comes to the local authority's ability to investigate matters before the County Council has taken action, I show that the government in the bill has reason to believe that if the municipality as a child has not been involved in matters where the County Council is asked to supervise, the municipality should be given the opportunity to investigate the matter and to have the possibility to rectify the situation itself before state supervision is taken into account. The Education Directorate has also asked the government to provide information on what can be expected from the follow-up of the municipality when the County Government sends a case to the municipality. The municipality as a child will be able to benefit from both supervision and guidance to investigate and ensure compliance with legal rules. If a case has not already been assessed by children's memory, as a general rule, it would be natural for the County to forward a request for supervision to the municipality. The government will then leave it up to a local discretion to evaluate which tool is most appropriate in the individual case. A joint committee has also noted that Barneombodet has pointed out the need to be able to derogate from the general rule that the municipality should be given the opportunity to investigate the matter before starting State supervision. The Government considers that the County State should be able to put into effect supervision on an exceptional basis without the municipality having examined the case, for example. where the municipality does not investigate a matter within a reasonable period of time, or where the cases are particularly serious. The Committee refers to the fact that, by means of the Kindergarten Act, the municipality has been given the right to impose on orphanage owners the correction of unwarranted or illegal circumstances. Furthermore, the municipality may adopt the time limit or permanent closure of the operation if the time limit for complying with the obligation is not complied with or if the situation is not corrected. If the municipality detects a breach of the requirements imposed on the use of public credits and parental payments, the municipality can use financial means of response. The Committee has also considered whether it is necessary for the State to have the same sanctioning powers as the local authority in its supervision as a child. In order to achieve effective supervision, it is necessary for the County to be able to act with the same weight and efficiency as the municipality and to respond to child care violations. The Committee points out that the Government proposes that the State be given the right to access documents and nursery facilities to the extent necessary for the supervision of kindergarten. The Committee sees that the proposal provides the County Council with the corresponding right of access to documents and childcare facilities to the municipality. The government does not propose any change of reality in the current law when it relates to the responsibility of nursery owners for the fact that the nursery has a documentation and assessment work in accordance with the requirements of the nursery law and the regulation on the framework plan for the content and tasks of the nursery. Kindergarten owners fulfil their responsibilities in cooperation with the pedagogical staff of the nursery. The Kindergartengesetz stated that kindergarten owners should operate the enterprise in accordance with current laws and regulations. Kindergartenowners are thus given the responsibility that the nursery business complies with the requirements laid down in the Children's Homes Act. The Data Protection in School and Kindergarten report of the Data Protection Authority discusses how internal control of personal data should be enhanced. The report indicates that there is an ongoing problem that there are no satisfactory procedures for complying with the Data Protection Act and the personal data requirements, and this applies in particular to the transparency, consent and risk assessment of digital tools dealing with personal data. In any case, it is important that a risk assessment be carried out in kindergarten to ensure that information is not compromised and that there is a need to clarify responsibilities in relation to the controller of personal data. This responsibility has been added to kindergarten owners, and I would like to clarify the responsibility of kindergarten owners for training them when this is the case. A Joint Committee does not want defined standards for the development of children to be developed in the context of a new framework plan. All children shall be assessed on the basis of their potential for development with regard to individual differences between children and the wide range of children with different abilities. The nursery shall not set specific targets for single children without a clear justification. The objectives shall be set in such cases in cooperation with parents and any cooperation parties outside the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1034	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1037	No one is really surprised that there is a massive kindergarten uprising against the government and against the government's message. For many years, it has been an important matter for employees in the sector to put in place a recruitment standard that allows us to have more employees who have time for the children. Also in this house there has been a strong willingness to strengthen the staffing of Norwegian kindergartens. By the spring of 2013, Stortinget discussed what is needed to improve the quality of kindergartens, and then all parties except the Advance Party joined a standard of navigation. Nevertheless, this has not been followed up in the government’s announcement. Is it the Progress Party that, with its resistance over several years, has ensured that the work on a crew standard has been stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1044	I can't say we owe it to you. We're in favour of a standard of manpower by 2020, and we're going to support the government on that. It is our job, of course, to continue working to get staff in place. I would also like to say that the municipalities have a responsibility. We've seen millions of local authorities to have a good kindergarten, and we'll continue with more resources in the years to come, but it's clear that a standard of staffing needs to be in place in a very short time, especially among the youngest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1049	I am not sure if the municipalities feel that their needs have been well followed up in the government's arrangements for the municipal sector. It is not long to 2020. We might have expected that the government would have signaled how to follow up the ambition of a large majority of people to secure a standard by 2020, but there's no world thing in the message. We also understand, as Harberg points out, that this is not a budgetary procedure, but the usual thing is for a government to report to the Stortinget what the priorities are in the sector and what will be included in the Stortinge budget so that the Stortinge can assess the priorities outlined. But here it's not mentioned in one word. Can Reiertsen here and now guarantee that there will be a follow-up from Stortinget on a standard of personnel, as the Stortinget has asked, and that we will see it in the budget for 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1054	I don't like to guarantee on behalf of others, but I know – as I know the minister in this area – that he's busy getting a good kindergarten. He's shown it with these messages and the proposition changes. I'd like to believe that he'll be on his way to getting a good crew standard, and that things will come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1059	Then we're going to have hope that the Council of State will continue. So far, it indicates that he was not present during the budgetary negotiations in the government when discussing how to follow up the Storting’s decision on the standard of living and quality in the kindergarten. We hope that in the future he will be able to respond and send some signals to the government, which so far has not been willing to bet on the kindergarten sector and more employees. Something else that the government is facing massive opposition in this kindergarten uprising is the desire for more documentation of single children in kindergarten. For example, the data protection authority has: alerts against the possibility of diversion of personal data. Here again, we understand where the proposal comes from, because we've seen in the media that the representative Reiertsen has arranged for video surveillance of children in kindergartens. Does Mr Reiertsen agree on this proposal in his own party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1067	When it comes to this proposal, we haven't discussed it in our own party. It was an output from me alone. The reason was simply that one was a little out of shape and shocked at what happened in the nursery in a special case. The representative himself knows what it's about. Thus, we must try everything we can to prevent such abuses in kindergarten. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1072	Unfortunately, the youngest children in the nursery were given too little space in the nursery service we have for treatment today. Three proposals have been made. It is about the size of the children’s group, about belonging to a child group, and how to facilitate good practice and extend the right to freedom from work in connection with kindergarten start. The Progress Party is involved in part of the comments that relate to this but does not support the proposals. Is the representative of Laila Marie Reiertsen agreed that there must be a special focus on the smallest, the youngest, the children. And since she does not support the proposals, is the second proposal the Progress Party believes should have been promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1079	As the representative says, we are involved in part of the comments, and we think they are very important. That's why we're in on them. First of all, when it comes to the very least in kindergarten, it has been a development. We've had many more small children in kindergartens. This will not be shown well enough in the created frame plan. The research also shows that we need to focus more on the little kids. Therefore, we need to look at the differences among individuals in general, and look at the approach and how to take care of the children in a good way in kindergarten. By including this in the framework plan, we think that there is a good basis for making it a much better everyday life for the small ones – not least for getting used at the beginning and meeting the nursery. It's a release phase from parents, and I can sign it myself. The fact that a person gets a good transition – and a good start – from home to kindergarten is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1086	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1089	Investing in kindergartens is one of the funniest and most important things that politicians can do. It pays off for work and for equality, and it gives our kids the best starting point for the meeting with the rest of their lives. In kindergarten, our kids are going to have a good place to be. They shall be socialised, integrated, learned languages and skills through play, equipped for life and becoming ready for school. Kindergarten is an important but very special part of the education cycle. It's going to keep going. Every day thousands of parents deliver their little kids to kindergarten. Some of the kids are running into their friends and to the adults, others are crying a little when they have to tell Mom or Dad. We all agree that the goal is for all parents to be sure that both the kids who cry and the kids who cry are well taken care of, that they develop in kindergarten to become safe, confident little children, good in language and schoolchildren. To do that for all children, we need to fill the nursery with better content and quality. But what does that really mean? In view of that, the government and the opposition are separating layers. In the matters and the message that we are discussing today, the government is in charge of dividend descriptions, language standards and more monitoring and documentation of children's preferences and skills. The kindergarten sector itself, researchers and experts are clear in their feedback: it will not provide more quality in kindergarten. The children won't be safer by it, more confident, better in language or schoolteachers by it. They won't learn anymore either. Once again, we see that this government is able to provide a big message that describes the challenges well, but fails when it comes to proposals for action that can do something about it. And once again, we see a government that doesn't listen to scientists, the trade union movement and those who know where the shoe prints. They are all strongly critical of the direction in which the government is now turning child care policy and the tools proposed. They are critical that the government's line goes too far in making kindergarten more equal to school, that it goes too far in measuring and testing kids' skills more than what's happening today, and that it doesn't at all take into account that the most important thing that needs to be done to achieve better quality in kindergarten, make children more mature in school, better in language and better equipped for the rest of their lives is more employees with the right skills. The Council of State itself and several representatives to this day have repeated that there is no reason for any insurrection, for people have just not understood what the government really means in the cases and in the notice. Well, it's not the first time we've heard from this government that people have misunderstood. It's gradually become a familiar pattern. We saw that when the debate on the right of reservation broke. We saw that when the government weakened the Working Environment Act, which led to the first general strike of 19 years, because a total trade union movement was falling on the consequences. It didn't make any sense to the government – people just didn't understand that this was for the benefit of the workers. Before Christmas, the Minister for Equal Opportunities presented a report on gender equality which will not lead to more equality. All slaughtered messages. Here, too, professionals, trade unions, NGOs and people had the most misconception -- there seems to be more paperwork to cut in the father's quota, and there seems to be more equality in working against it. And now we're there in kindergarten, too. When an overall industry, recognised researchers, the Federation of Education, the Federation of Trade Unions, the Board of Parents, the Association of School Directors, thousands of individual people, are concerned by the uprising, the government should go on its own and see if it is perhaps the government that has a problem — at least a communication problem, as everyone clearly misunderstands the government all the time. Or is it perhaps the case that this government on a case-by-case basis simply does a bad job, listens too little to people most and professionals and repeatedly presents policies that are stopped in Stortinget? The working party listens to those who know what works to improve quality in all kindergartens. We built accessible kindergartens around the country when we ran, and we worked with the quality in parallel – together with and not against the kindergarten sector itself. Through two large-scale messages, the last in 2013, we provided more than 40 initiatives for a better day-to-day day-care for our young people: better language development measures, better tools for monitoring and frameworks for the use of documentation, empowerment for employees, better working environment, better supervision and better transition between kindergarten and school – with the sector on track. Most of these proposals have not been followed up by this government, which, after it has taken over, has shown that it has deprived kindergarten. New ideas and better solutions, promises of continuous uptake and better quality have become more queues, more testing and measurement and increased prices – and lost opportunities, for example. where the government chooses to treat private and municipal kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner, but does not allow the municipalities to set the same quality requirements. Lost opportunities also show it when it allows itself to deal with the decision of the majority of the population on manning standards. Yeah, it's actually not weird that there's going to be rebellion. Today, when we go against some of the measures put forward by the government, it's because they go too far in thinking systems in front of people. They go too far in opening up to measure the individual child instead of measuring the work of kindergartens. We have better suggestions on how to achieve the goal of increasing quality in kindergartens. The main quality factor in kindergartens is the employees. Several employees with the right skills are the first to do so. It ignores the government in the message, and with it it once again overlooks the majority of the population, who asked the government to come up with a plan for how to achieve this standard before Christmas. So they don't want to spend time on it. It is gratifying that the majority of people today park some of the most unpopular measures the government has put forward. We say no to more required use of documentation, no to increased measurement of the individual child's skills. Together with the government parties, we have made a better proposal and a better model of language requirements for employees, which should ensure better language levels for employees, but at the same time not hinder flexibility in those places where this is not a problem. I hope that the proposal on which we have reached an agreement also stands through this debate, and that the Left, Right and Advance Party will vote in favour of a proposal which the industry itself thinks is better. In addition, the Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the rest of the opposition, proposes several good measures to improve the quality of kindergartens. We do not accept that children are bullied and excluded. We will legislate the rights of kindergartens to a safe care and learning environment. We ask the government to consider whether there should be restrictions on the size of the children's groups. We want to make the habit of kindergarten as good as possible and ask the government to consider what is going on, for example. that mother or father is given more freedom to be present at the beginning. We want every kindergarten to have a good Norwegian language environment. And we believe that the children should have role models of both sexes. The parties which are not represented in the Committee, the Left, the SV and the Centre have also made good proposals, which will increase the quality of the nursery, which we support today. While working for increased quality, we must not forget that there are many children who do not go to kindergarten. The cows grow with the blue-blue government. If we are to catch up with everyone who needs a little extra, whether it's language support, adult contact or anything else, we need to build enough space to give every child an offer. On behalf of the children and toddlers, we must have greater ambitions for both content and capacity in kindergartens than this government has. I am very pleased that the majority today rejects the government's change of direction for the kindergarten sector and says that the Nordic, good kindergarten model will continue to exist. I take up both the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind alone in the vote and those that we stand with the Christian People's Party on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1121	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1126	The representative Trettebergstien is very concerned about how one now puts a stop to something that they are very opposed to. One of the proposals is that there should be a standard for language development in kindergarten. I think I have to ask for an explanation of vote, because I read in Trettebergstien's own chronicle that she refers to: ‘In Oslo, for example, the new Labour Party Agency requires all kindergartens to have plans for systematic observation of children’s language development.’; And in proposal No. 3, from the minority in the setting, it says: ‘The government is asking for clarification of the objectives of the kindergarten’ – and not enough with it, but also for ‘toying care and social skills’. What makes it all right to set clear and clear goals, but that a norm is not right?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1141	Thank you for the question, because that's where the government parties and the opposition really separate layers. We believe in demanding that kindergartens do language work and quality work in a more systematic way, but it is the kindergartens and the employees we have to demand, not what the individual child should be able to do. What the government is proposing is a norm and a standard for what all five-year-olds should be able to do. Those who know children, and those who know children's day, know that it's an absolutely impossible task, it works against their purpose. It is also possible to set standards, requirements and objectives for what individual children should be able to do, but as long as no one really gets the task of making sure that young people can do so by introducing a standard of living – with more staff with more competence – you can test and measure and standardise yourself green. So the government has proposed a language norm, but they're now saying that it should be indicative, no one should be measured from it. Then it's pointless, and then we're back to what's the Labour Party's policy: it's that kindergartens are going to do systematic, good language work, through, for example. an indicative [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1152	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1155	It is still unclear to me, because you talk about kindergartens and their work – as the government does in its case, and as the Right Party and the Advance Party do in the setting. And so what Trettebergstuen draws forth as the good example, from Oslo again – for which I almost have to ask for an explanation – is that ‘all kindergartens should have plans for systematic observation of children’s language development’, not of the employees’ work with the language, but of the children’s language development. For me, there's still a logical flaw here that I think Trettenbergstien can try to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1160	I'm glad to continue where I failed instead. The point is that when kindergartens are going to work in a systematic and good way with children’s language development, they should do so by using discretion and where there is a need, not by setting one standard and one standard for what children should be able to do, but by giving employees confidence, so that they can use their educational education and have time to follow up the kids they see need help. In Oslo Children's Garden, they do it to the previous government – that is, among other things. The Labour Party, when we were in government in 2013 – asked for. With the revised Oslo standard for language work, employees spend time observing, evaluating and following up the kids, involving their parents. They have confidence that the employees are securing the extra follow-up for the young people who need it. It's a model that makes employees spend time on the kids who need it, not on measuring and testing all children against one meaningless norm.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1170	There's not always a few answers in a line exchange, at least not so that one understands the logic of it. I'll go a little further. Firstly, I record again that the Workers' Party is speaking hot for increased pedagogical density. Nor in the revised budget now – as far as I could see – did it come with a single crown. I guess that's not quite logical either. So finally, there are 34 concrete proposals in this Communication – which Anette Trettebergstuen describes as a reality description without action – 34 actions. The working party goes against three-four of them – or has shades of it. The other 30 go for it. What has happened to the measures – located there – supported by the Workers' Party, which are referred to as if they do not exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1179	As I said in my post, the Labour Party and an overall opposition go against the measures that go too far. I said that this message contains a very good description of the challenges – we all agree on that – and that is also a good deal of good action. The measures that we cannot support are those that have led to the insurrection of kindergartens — and thus have diverted attention from the good proposals. It is no wonder, because when we see more use being made of documentation by the government – even if one today says otherwise – the language standard, a model for what all young people should be able to do, strict language requirements for employees, etc., it is to take the nursery sector in the wrong direction. That is not to say that there are not things in this message that we all support, but the point is that if the government parties had now received a majority for these proposals, it would have gone beyond – and not strengthened – the quality of the kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1186	Together with the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party promotes two proposals on language and language work. We ask the government to clarify the objectives of kindergarten work in language and to set targets on how kindergarten should work with toys, care and social skills. In addition, we ask ‘the government not to draw up guidance standards for the linguistic basis that children should have with them from kindergarten’. What is the reason for this, and what is it necessary to expect that kindergartens can set targets for how kindergartens should work with language, play, care and social skills? Is this something we can just decide, and then expect it to happen by itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1191	Thank you for the question. No, it's not that we politicians can decide what the kindergarten employees are going to achieve with our children in kindergarten. We need to give the employees confidence, time and space to take care of the individual child, to see the needs of the individual child and to follow up the individual child in an appropriate way. That is why today we are also spending so much time in this debate reminding the government parties that the best way to achieve better quality across the whole line of kindergarten would have been to implement the majority decision on a recruitment standard by 2020 and increase pedagogical density. It would have given better room to follow up on the individual child and thus have led our children to better language development, socialisation and integration and be better protected for the school. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the rest of the opposition today are voting down the proposals that, on the contrary, would lead the employees to spend their time on more documentation, more paperwork, which would remove the focus from the qualitatively good follow-up of the kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1200	It's a pleasure to be with the representative Trettebergstuen on a lot of good suggestions today. Good craftsmanship has been done in the Committee of the Workers' Party and in the Christian People's Party. The process around this message has shown that one of the things we can't trust with regard to this government is that it will anchor the work well in the sector with those who know the nursery best – those who work there, those who research in kindergarten, those who sit on the profession. There are already proposals and comments that underline this on the part of the Workers' Party, but precisely because of that experience, SV has wanted to go even more concretely to work and to decide that the work on the framework plan must take place through a process in which the profession itself participates. That is why I would like to challenge the representative of the Trettebergstuen whether the Workers' Party will agree to this, so we are absolutely sure that we have committed well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1209	The representative Lightbakken is quite right in saying that this message and the treatment it receives here today, and the uprising it has created, is a result of a government that does not do its work well enough, which does not listen to researchers, professionals and the industry itself, nor to the people most concerned about, who are – and will lead to – better quality in kindergarten. When the representative Lysbakken himself sat in government and co-ordinated with the Workers' Party, and we presented our report on quality in kindergarten, there was just an inclusive process around the revision of the new framework plan, one of the prerequisites for a new framework plan. SV does not sit in the committee itself, but I can assure the representative Lysbaken that we fully agree that when the framework plan is to be revised, it must be done with broad involvement from those who know where the shoe prints – the professionals in the industry itself and the educators. The proposal that we have put forward in the vote covers the view of the representative, Mr Lysbakken, on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1218	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1221	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the kindergarten has really been put on the agenda in Stortinget. Both the legislative proposals and the notification we have to deal with today have created a great deal of commitment, and that commitment is to be very much appreciated by politicians responsible for the country's child care policy. The issues we are dealing with have created a strong debate, and as the committee has worked on the legislative proposals and the communication, I think it is right to say that the Stortinge has listened to the signals that have come, not least from the kindergarten sector itself. In addition to the two legislative proposals, we are dealing with the kindergarten message, Time for play and learning. Better childcare facilities. So this is a pediatric quality report, and even though the committee agrees a lot, the Council of State has to excuse me, because I was both amazed and disappointed that this quality report contained nothing about what really could have given the kindergartens a great quality promise, namely the standard of staffing and the standard of kindergarten teachers. I will come back to that, but this was very disappointing, and today the Council of State is given ample opportunity to explain why this is not promised in the notice. Christian People's Party supports the government's proposals for changes in Prop. 33 L, with some exceptions, first and foremost the proposal for the first paragraph of Section 2 of the Kindergarten Act. When we promote proposals where we ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a new proposal to amend Section 2, it is because of this: With a majority for such a solution, the government will have the opportunity to start this work on the basis of the attitude of the majority of the population. The propositions and the message have a completely different starting point than what the mass mass represents, as we have seen. It's been made clear over the past few weeks. Both the legal text and the propositions have become a patchwork of conflicting signals and leads, and it is very unclear to what extent it will function as a management tool. As we understand it, we don't put the nursery in a lawless state for that reason. Kindergartens are still subject to the Data Protection Act. We do not want the sentences in the government parties' legislative proposals on the routine of documentation. This implies a legal obligation to document and, with the text of the proposition and the notification, this becomes a wrong signal to the sector. If there is a need for a legal framework for the processing of personal data to be maintained, it is enough to mention this only, rather than ‘the routine of documentation’. The background for our skepticism here is, among other things, that the Government of the Proposition does not draw a distinction between documentation, assessments and surveys, etc., as pointed out in our remarks. Then we are very sceptical about the introduction to the comment that seeks to make sure that there will be no changes to the current law and framework plan. We believe a problem today is that today's law and framework plan are interpreted differently. In the view of many people, much of today’s practice in kindergarten is far from the intention of the framework plan. Therefore, we absolutely do not think it reassuring to write: «Today, in line with today's framework plan, systematic observation, documentation and assessment of both the activities of kindergarten and of single children.» This may be true, but it is equally true that there are also practices that are absolutely not in line with what we understand as the intention of today's framework plan. We are in doubt whether it is desirable to legitimise such practices through the new proposal. The Christian People's Party believes that the government's proposal for a new section 2 is better than the government's proposal, but the Christian People's Party will vote to ask for any new proposal from the government, if such is the case, that there is a legal basis for processing personal data. We feel that there are too many ambiguities in what's going on here today, that we want to vote for something else. The Christian People's Party is voting for the government's proposal for a supervisory regime, provided that this is evaluated after two years, and if the evaluation shows that the local authority's supervisory responsibilities are not respected in a good and quality manner, the road will be short here on the Stortinget to propose independent supervision. The Christian People's Party also promotes this proposal: ‘The government asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the autumn of 2016, to promote a case for the Stortinget where the government’s work on the standard of living and child care teachers’ standards is being prepared.’ So, as I said, the government has presented a report on quality in kindergarten that does not refer in one word to the Christian People's Party's opinion is the most important thing for the quality of kindergarten, staffing standards and kindergarten teachers – enough adults and enough kindergarten teachers. The Christian People's Party believes this is absolutely fundamental, because with enough kindergarten teachers, we guarantee quality through competence and knowledge. The government solution is to try to ensure quality through standards and standardisation. Norms don't create quality, and children don't get better at measuring. Good enough quality in all kindergartens we ensure with demands for enough adults to work all day long and with demands for enough kindergarten teachers in all kindergartens. The Christian People's Party will not have language norms, dividend requirements, more screening and documentation. We therefore promote these proposals, and hope that the majority of the Grand Duchy will vote in favour of the children: ‘The government is asking not to draw up guidance standards for the linguistic basis that children should have with them from kindergarten.’ ‘The government is asking the Ministry to clarify the objectives of the kindergarten’s work in language and to set targets on how the nursery is to work in the field of play, care and social skills.’ It is about not setting targets for each child. The work of kindergarten is to be focused on in the framework plan, not on the performance of the individual child. We listen to the professionals who say that target management of young children will kill learning and work against their purpose. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Stortinget today gives a clear message that we want to continue the Norwegian and Nordic kindergarten tradition. For the Christian People's Party is one of the main pillars of kindergarten policy: Don't make kindergarten a school! Let care and play touch the sector and let learning come through games! The Christian People's Party has great faith in the Nordic kindergarten tradition, where the self-esteem of childhood and the free play of children are preserved. The youngest children got a little lost in this message from the government. In Stortinget we raise this perspective. The youngest need small groups of children, they need to belong to a group of children, and they need a good time to get used to it. Not least, it is important for the youngest children that enough adults are present all day, and that there are enough kindergarten teachers in kindergarten. Then the Christian People's Party is pleased that all the parties in the committee are behind this proposal for bullying: «The government is asking the government to propose its own legislation on a safe environment for care and learning, cf. Section 9a of the Training Act.’ We agree that there is a need for further legal support for the relationship and anti- bullying work of the kindergarten. This is an important step in the further work on bullying even in kindergartens. Then to Prop. 103 L. Christian People's Party approves the Government's proposal for changes to Prop. 103 L, with only one exception. As regards the parental benefit exemption for children receiving special educational assistance, the Christian People's Party believes that it should continue. The Children’s Home Law Committee argued that reduced parental pay for this group of children could stimulate increased childcare participation. Childcare participation is likely to have a particularly positive effect on these children, and parental deductions may help to make the child’s needs for special educational assistance easier to see in relation to the child’s day-to-day childhood. For families with income above the income limit of the maternity schemes and with high expenditure, the removal of the reimbursement scheme would be of economic importance. We believe that this is unfortunate, and we are therefore promoting the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to continue the scheme of deduction from the parental allowance for children receiving special educational assistance.’ Then in a later article I'll come back to other things in Prop. 103 L, e.g. what to do with the movement of the date limits and how to understand them. I also need to discuss in a later article how the Christian People's Party will vote in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1292	Once again, I would like to pierce a little by the standard of manning. After all, the size of the population has – and has been said repeatedly from the pulpit here now – adopted a standard of manpower and asked for an escalation plan, not a budget plan as it is claimed. It has not been followed up in the message, and we have heard the excuse from the representative Harberg, and there is probably one coming from the Council of State. I hear the disappointment of the representative Bekkewold's posts, and I give him the opportunity to deepen even more disappointment. What does the Christian People's Party really think about the government not following decisions made here in the Grand Duchy, and that we must once again propose this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1300	In my speech, I tried to express this, but of course within the framework of the parliamentary language, because I was both disappointed and surprised that in the communication we could not see in any place that this important area was raised, despite the fact that the Council of State has been very clear that this is going to take place by 2020. So it's part of the story that the Christian People's Party has been more impatient than that. Two years ago, we said that we need to make this happen already in 2016. In our alternative state budget, we added 300 million. kr to a quality lift in the nursery, which was about the standard of living and the standard of kindergarten teacher. So there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party is disappointed, and we expect to get a case to the Stortinget in autumn 2016, where the government tells the Stortinget how it works with this norm.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1307	The cord shift is over. The representative, Mr Bekkewold, mentioned a proposal – is it a proposal that has been raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1312	Yes, it is a proposal that has been taken up, but there are so many proposals now, and I need some time to be able to prepare for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1317	That's what the representative needs. It seems to be a while until we're done with the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1320	We have to do this properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1325	There are a lot of things and a lot of suggestions to decide about one not in the committee. I'll try to go through them in a good way to make the Center Party's position visible in these cases. In the case of case No. 6, on changes in childhagelova and training laws, the Centre Party will support the removal of the legislation on children under the compulsory training age from the training law of the Kinderhagelova, as outlined in the proposal, and the simultaneous relocation of the municipality’s obligation to provide the appropriate childcare facilities for children with disabilities. We also support the proposal that children born in September and October should be given the right to kindergarten from the month they reach the age of one year. We have argued that the government will ensure that this is done in a way that guarantees the quality of supply. In this case, we will also support proposal No. 2, by the Workers' Party, to review the financing of kindergartens with a view to providing equal value in favour of quality and accessibility requirements. Case No. On the subject of changes in childcare facilities, the Centre Party supports the proposal to give the County State the right to supervise kindergartens on a case-by-case basis, but that the municipalities still have the primary responsibility for the supervision of kindergartens. This is a very important matter, which I myself have been concerned with as a local politician, because I have seen that the supervision of kindergartens has not worked as intended, and that it is often the Labour Inspectorate that needs to be consulted if there is something or other, for example. with the indoor climate. This is an improvement. The centre party has stated that there will be a slightly more independent supervision, and I believe that I can strengthen the quality of supply. In this matter, the government also proposes: ‘In order to ensure early work and the provision of childcare facilities for children and children, the Ministry proposes that the Children’s Hospital Act should specify that the educational offer should be documented and evaluated.’ Barnehagelova does not contain any information about this today. The centre party is clear that we don't want a direction where we get a lot of monitoring of children in kindergartens, and we think that the competence and development of single children should only be documented if there are good educational reasons for that. We support the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party's proposal in the position to ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a new Section 2, first paragraph, which takes care of a possible need for legal protection for the processing of personal data, but which in no way facilitates more documentation, monitoring and measurement of the individual child. We also support proposal No. 2 in the position, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, to ask the government to bring up a matter of government's work on staffing standards and child care teachers' standards, and we can support Left's proposal No. 4. Subsidiary, but we believe that proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, where we go straight against Section 2, is the best proposal. When it comes to kindergarten, it's an incredibly important and loving thing, and everyone can be a part of the overarching goals, that we should have safe kindergartens, that we should have high quality, and that we should have a kindergarten that is available to everyone, where children should thrive, develop and learn. So we're going to have supplies that are available, regardless of the family background. The title of the kindergarten message is ‘Leakage and learning time – Better childcare content’. We mean that the title is very good, but the content doesn't live up to the title. I have made one point – it has also been said a lot about it in this room today: Why do we have kindergartens in Norway? Is it for us to make sure that our young people get scoundreled? Is it for us to make sure that our kids get a good education? That's the first step in the education process, it's said. Is it to ensure integration? Is it for a good job? I want to make it clear that all these kindergarten days are life itself. It's the very life of our kids, and it has a self-esteem to be in a nursery. A nursery is not a means of achieving something later in life, it's life there and there. Four or five years is a long time, it's a whole childhood, and I want to simplify this to a very simple sentence about what must be the purpose: it must be fun to go to kindergarten. I think if one has fun in the nursery, one also learns all of this. It was a personal statement. The centre batch has submitted several suggestions on the matter, and I will try to go through them, so that the hall is informed about how we think. We have a suggestion in a crew standard to assess the requirement of at least 50 pst. kindergarten teachers and 25 pst. child workers and youth workers in kindergarten. This is in line with what came into the earring in the matter. We have a proposal where we ask the government to take care of the Nordic kindergarten tradition, where development and learning take place through free play, and therefore do not give the day-to-day babysitting a clearer educational content in a new framework plan. With this proposal, I would like to make it clear that we do not believe that the transition kindergarten school should not be improved. It needs to be improved, as also mentioned in the message, but when it comes to the transition of kindergarten schools, we end up with what is stated in the message that the department assesses the lawfulness of this cooperation in order to ensure good transitions. But we don't want a kindergarten that puts more emphasis on being preschool. We have a proposal asking the government to ensure that a new framework plan does not lead to additional requirements for the documentation and monitoring of single children as part of the educational activity. We have a proposal to ask the government for a new framework plan to give confidence to pedagogues in kindergartens by indicating that kindergarten teachers are at the heart of the choice of pedagogical and methodological tools, and that, as a rule, such choices should be the pedagogical guidance in kindergarten. We have a proposal to ask the government in the framework plan to strengthen their pediatric responsibility to take care of the mother tongue of the children and the potential for good linguistic development, to increase the multicultural competence of the nursery and to strengthen their parents' right to participation. It is surprising that there is so little talk about mother tongues, but only about Norwegian as the second language in this debate. We have a proposal to ask the government in the framework plan to make sure that in shrouds with new Norse to use both public and private kindergartens in the nursery. This is an output from, for example, The target. This applies, for example: having new books available. We have a proposal not to change the distribution of the ear-marked national code for better language understanding measures among minority language children in early school years. Today, there is a system that is provided in all municipalities, and the proposal is distributed according to the number of minority language children to be in kindergarten. It is now centralized to cities with a very large minority language, and other municipalities are not supported. The center party is against that conversion. We have a proposal asking the government to ensure that the framework plan sets out clear demands for systematic and formalised cooperation between kindergarten and child protection, so that kindergartens are better able to send out concerns in case of suspicion of care failure and/or abuse. We have a proposal where we ask the government to follow up the objectives of the Report. St. 19 for 2014–2015, the Public Health Communication, to assess an own law on the working environment of children. I see that in the proposition here it's referred to the public health message, but the joint statement that one should evaluate an own law on the working environment of children is out of the proposition. I sometimes have elephant memory, and I think this very well because the government party went out and made this a new story. I thought that proposal was good. The proposal in the Roman Numeral Decision to secure the Statutory of Law, cf. training law § 9 a, we can vote in favour of subsidiary, but we do know what it is like in school. That's not good enough, and I have a great sense of evaluating a child's own law on the working environment. We have a proposal to secure measures leading to the recruitment of more men in kindergarten, and we are going to vote in favour of the Left's proposal. Otherwise it looks like I have to come up again and explain the rest of the vote. But at least I'm making my suggestions to the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1381	The representative Kjersti Toppe then brought up the proposals she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1384	This case, which several have already been involved, has created a great deal of commitment in the kindergarten sector. It's not for no reason. There are significant changes the government has proposed, and then it is positive that the profession engages and expresses what they think is a good development of kindergartens. One of the issues that has been much discussed is the collection and monitoring of personal data. For the left, it's important that kindergarten is something other than school. It's the game to focus on in kindergartens. So it's clear that there's a lot of learning in games, and that's the way it should be. Kindergarten is an important arena for learning. We can do that, for example. look at languages. For young people struggling with language, kindergarten is an important area for language training. For those kids who don't speak Norwegian at home, the nursery is perhaps the most important arena to learn Norwegian. Then, fortunately, most of the kids go to kindergarten, and together with the government, the Left and Christian People's Party has made an important effort to bring down the price for those with the lowest income, so that there are no kids being kept out of the important arena for economic reasons. In our kindergartens we have the whole range of kids. We have kids with major disabilities. We have kids with mild disabilities. We have kids with dyslexia. We have kids with dyscalculi. We have kids with behavioral problems, and we have kids without any significant challenges. We have kids with difficult relationships at home, etc., etc. Lucky are we who have such a system that can preserve the whole diversity of kids. When such a large range of kids are gathered in one arena, it goes without saying that there are different assumptions, different challenges, different follow-ups to be implemented. Kindergartens across the whole country are monitoring young people. They find out what is needed for follow-up, they carry out the follow-up, they have dialogue with parents, etc. I guess no one wants no pups to be surveyed. What we're skeptical about is the mapping of all kids, whether they need it or not. In the context of monitoring and follow-up, the protection of the privacy of children is essential. It can't be that kids have a weaker privacy than the rest of the population have. We have received clear feedback from, among others. The data supervision that it is necessary to clean up the basis of origin. This is a job that has to be done by the ministry. However, it is necessary to specify that such clean-up, or preparation, shall not mean that kindergartens should start to monitor or measure more than they do today. On the contrary, there may be reason to see whether they are being surveyed a bit well in today's kindergartens. That is why the Left has put forward a proposal, which we consider to be necessary to clean up the foundations of childcare to follow up those young people who need special follow-up. If this proposal does not get a majority, we will of course vote in a subsidiary way for the minority proposal that exists from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party. As we in the Left see it, the most important thing is to make sure that children's development is that we have competent adults in kindergartens. It doesn't matter whether we fill kindergartens with adults who have child-care skills or whether being an adult in itself is a qualification enough. Doing educational work with children is not easy just because the kids are young. As I can understand it must be much harder the smaller the kids are, and then there's more reason to fill our kindergartens with people who know what they're doing. We support the proposal made by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party on a standard of living, but we do not want this to be just about kindergarten teachers. We also believe that we must include those who have a diploma. The left has an explicit goal of that 50 pst. by the staff shall be kindergarten teachers and that 80 pst. shall have children's professional competence. In this way, we fill kindergartens with people who can see the individual child, who know what challenges they have, and how best to deal with the challenges within the framework of kindergarten. We are also promoting this proposal today. We also promote proposals where we ask the government to look specifically at how we can recruit men in the nursery sector. There are too few men working in kindergartens today, and it is of great value that both sexes are represented in this profession. I am therefore pleased that many have expressed support for that proposal earlier in the debate. We have recorded that the Committee now insists that a level of Norwegian competence should not be laid down for the employees of kindergartens. This does not agree with the Left. We believe that the Norwegian knowledge of those who work so closely on kids is important. Barnehagen is, as I have said before, perhaps the most important arena for Norwegian language in many young people, and then it doesn't matter whether the employees can Norwegian or not. When this is discussed, we are often told that it would be unfortunate to make such demands, because kindergartens are a place there, for example. many immigrants can get a job. Of course, we are not against the fact that there should also be places of practice in kindergartens, as it may be in the vast majority of other jobs in this country. But it can't be that kindergartens should be a place where those who don't get a job elsewhere are placed. Our kids are the most important thing we have. Good Norwegian skills are important when young people start school. We believe that Norwegian staff skills should be required. We will therefore not support that proposal from the Committee and promote a separate proposal on this point. If our proposal has a majority, the government must come back to the Storting and promote a proposal for legislative changes. And then we assume, of course, that you take into account that there has to be some flexibility in kindergarten, so that it has to be, for example. is the room for people to be admitted to practical places. We assume that the necessary exemptions from such a provision will be discussed and brought to light in such a case, with which the government will have to come to the Stortinget. As I have said before, the Left wants to 50 pst. by staff shall be trained kindergarten teachers and that 80 pst. by staff members, they shall have the professional competence of children. If we manage to meet this at some point, we have largely solved the Norwegian challenges, because if you have that education, you also have the language skills that are needed. In terms of language standards for the kids, we are fully in line with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. We don't want that. Kids are different, and they're going to be allowed to be. We are afraid that such a language standard will have to lead to a large-scale mapping and a lot of bureaucracy. There are resources that are better used in meeting some children. Rather, we need to focus on the number of employees and the skills of the employees we have. Finally, I would like to address the proposals submitted by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1414	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1417	Now almost all children in Norway go to kindergarten before they start school. SV is very proud to have contributed to the kindergarten reform that was carried out during our reign, which made it possible. It is perhaps the largest and most important promise for the Norwegian welfare state in many decades. It means a new everyday life for Norwegian children and for Norwegian families. Several children are given the opportunity to participate in the learning, the well-being, the development of curiosity, social competence and language, and the secure framework around the everyday life that kindergartens mean. It also means a simpler everyday life for families. This means that more people can participate in the world of work, and that means over time – I am convinced – social cohesion, because kindergarten is an arena to give equal opportunities to different children. It's an important arena for the fight against Difference Norway, to create a society that doesn't give up one child. It was a courageous political choice to implement the kindergarten reform. Like all major reforms, it was also demanding. Not least, the great lack of well-educated kindergarten teachers was a challenge. In spite of this, studies have shown that the quality of nursery services has kept up, despite the enormous expansion. It's thanks to the amazing efforts of employees, professionals and kindergarten owners laid down in this period. But although it is very positive to say whether what we have left behind, there is clearly a need for quality assurance and development of the quality of our kindergartens. That is why also the then state council Kristin Halvorsen promoted the future kindergarten in the spring of 2013. It is interesting to see that several of the proposals made in that communication are also followed up by the current government. In some areas, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen follows up good red-green kindergarten policy, and I am pleased about that. Already in the foreword to that announcement, Kristin Halvorsen affirmed the following: ‘The Norwegian nursery tradition is valuable. It assumes that childhood has a value in itself. It is important that children are fine here and now and have good experiences every day. In Norwegian kindergartens, play is the main starting point for learning.’ That view was a conscious choice of value. This is also the starting point for the concerns I and SV have related to the message we are now dealing with. That is why I asked the Minister of Knowledge earlier this spring to give an account of the department's lack of involvement of the profession even in the preparation of a new framework plan. So the Minister of Knowledge has repeatedly assured us that yes, he is also concerned about taking care of the Norwegian nursery model. But it's hard to believe it when several proposals go in the opposite direction to what we've built up our kindergartens to date. It concerns the proposal for the introduction of an indicative language standard. Language researchers say it's impossible to make a complete norm – that a state norm will be seen as an established measure of children's language in kindergarten, no matter what the government says. The proposal for a new framework plan to clarify the linguistic and social benefits of children after kindergarten is also a completely different way of thinking – a basic philosophy, a fundamental idea for the orientation of kindergarten. The exclusion of professional environments even in the work on a new framework plan is also an important breach of what has been one of the reasons why Norwegian kindergartens are as high in quality as they do. That is why I am pleased that today we can form a majority against the government on a number of these crucial points. This is also why SV is promoting its own proposal today, which makes even more concrete the order to the Council of State to include the profession in the work on a new framework plan. A good childhood lasts a lifetime. We have to spend the big money on the little people -- our children. This is the best investment in the future of Norway. But then we also have to let children be children, and don't go on the big misunderstanding that making kindergarten more like school is the right way to facilitate more learning. The right way to make sure that children succeed in school is, on the contrary, to let children be children and leave the game in the centre of kindergarten. With this, I'm going to take up the proposal that's been distributed in the hall, and just say that since the committee has given the other parties half of their speaking time, I can't even explain our vote, so I'm going to redraw it to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1444	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1448	As others have mentioned, there has been a lot of debate about the nursery service. Let me just be quite clear that this debate is not due to misunderstandings, the debate is due to disagreements. So it's not all the disagreements like that. in particular, the working party has moved forward, which is real disagreements. There is a lot we agree on, which is clearly stated by the government: that kindergarten should not be a school, that we should not have individual learning goals for each child, and that we should preserve the Nordic kindergarten tradition. Nor is it such that it has been clearly negative, rather the message and the broad outlines of what the government is proposing have received great support in many environments – from the local community's own organisation, from the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, 50 pst. by Norwegian children go to private kindergartens, from several kindergartens that have had hearings, and not least from important organisations such as Dysleksi Norway, which do not necessarily support everything but which support the main direction precisely because they are so concerned about catching up with the children that are missing today. But then there are also some things – even if we agree on something – about which there is real disagreement. The majority in Stortinget today clearly announces that there are in particular two proposals they do not want. It's an indicative language norm, and that's what we've called a dividend description. That means, of course, that those proposals are being put away. I would also like to say to everyone who has been involved in the debate both in the Chamber and outside, that we are following the debate, and we are hearing the cry that comes about to involve more closely in the processes further. We don't plan to sit in a meeting room in the department and write a framework plan. We're going to engage and involve the profession. We will also take initiatives after this, including: together with the Education Association, to see if we can find some common arenas where we can get a discussion based on the majority in the Stortinge. Then there is much that gives a clear signal that we will continue to work with. And that's important things. It's about, for example, on a framework plan that has even clearer requirements and expectations for the work of kindergartens in language, so that we can capture those kindergartens that are falling out today. A framework plan that is clearer and a better tool – today it is also very extensive, perhaps something to do with it. A kindergarten framework that makes it more clear that there is a difference between the environment around a one-year-old and the environment around a five-year-old. A framework plan and a regulation that makes it clearer about the transition between kindergarten and school, which many municipalities get to very well, but where too many fail. And also legislation – to have a safety valve through independent supervision by the County, so that you can go in and check if parents, employees or the County itself believe that the municipality does not take its supervisory responsibility and does it well. The significance of a good start in life cannot be underestimated. I actually have two approaches to the kindergarten discussion. One is that today's kindergarten is viewed differently from before. Kinderhagen has been motivated by equality, with social economy because both parents can be out of work, and with the fight against Difference Norway. All that is important, and kindergarten contributes to all that, but above all, kindergarten is about the children who go there. For many years, the main priorities have been the number of places. Now the main priorities must be the content and quality of children. The second is that there are too many differences between kindergartens today. We can view it as variation in manning. We can look at the variation in the number of kindergarten teachers. It can be seen from the results of studies that show variations in the systematic, thorough and well-functioning educational work planned and carried out. The goal, of course, is not for those who work really well to work worse, but for us to get more kindergartens to work even better, and – I have to add – more kindergarten owners, both private and public, to work even better. That is why I believe that the framework plan is such an important tool. The framework plan needs to describe even more clearly than at present what kindergarten should be and provide a clearer framework for the important work being done. The framework plan should make it clear that there are differences between a one-year-old and a five-year-old — not through individual learning objectives, but with regard to the kind of environment the nursery should provide, for learning. So, of course, it's individual how children evolve, and it once again suggests that kindergarten should not become a school, and that we should not have individual learning goals. At the same time, we know that children need something to reach for, and the nursery will provide, but through play and learning hand in hand, as today. We know that many kindergarten children get help and support too late. The kindergarten gives us a unique opportunity to find the children who need help, and we have to do that through precision, not mass action. There is a reason why this government, unlike the previous government, has not proposed the monitoring of all four-year-olds, for example, who were in practice the consequence of previous government measures, precisely because it is the systematic observation, which the Workers' Party writes so well about in an article in the VG today, which is crucial, and then the measures are put in place for the children who need it, after a good professional assessment. Today's framework has many qualities, but it is unclear in several areas. We know that kindergartens interpret the regulation differently, and this in itself can contribute to the emergence of quality differences between kindergartens, for example. in the language work. And when we know how crucial language work is, not for the future's work or schooling or anything like that, but for play, for development, to be able to thrive and have fun and make friends in kindergarten, it's serious. Studies also show that there are too many differences between kindergartens, and this may affect the linguistic basis of the children at school. Therefore, more systematic and conscious language work is needed in kindergartens, and not least learning from the kindergartens that really do. Learning is not new in kindergarten, and I think one of the most important things that has happened in kindergarten is that the profession so clearly tells us that kindergarten is part of the education process, but a genuine educational arena other than school. Both in the current framework plan and in the 1996 framework plan, it is clear that there is to be learning in kindergarten. The question is, then, how. I would like to stress that the provision of more education in kindergarten does not mean that children should play less, and instead of having theoretical explanations about it, you can simply go around Barnehage-Norway and see how to stimulate the curiosity of children, how children play and learn at the same time, and how to find the good balance between the completely free game, where adults may have to intervene to make sure that everyone is involved, and the adult-driven, adult-nitted activities that are also play. We have to be careful to have a system that is looking for defects in children, but at the same time we have to have a system that ensures that children who need extra arrangements or other efforts get help as early as possible. In other words, good professional judgement in the profession must be combined with systematics and good practice. It's not an attack on the professional handling room of the profession. Nor is it, I believe, a time thief, a prerequisite for the pedagogical activities of kindergarten. Then it's up to the individual kindergarten to decide about, when and how to use educational tools. I have also noticed that the Storting wants a legal support for a safe care and learning environment, and will of course come back to Stortinget with it in an appropriate way. Then I have to admit that I am a little stunned when it comes to some of the rhetoric about recruitment standards. The reason for that is that there's one thing all in this room agree on, is that. What's in the government statement is exactly what it says, for example. Work party programme. If you're going to highlight someone here, it's the Christian People's Party, which has even invested money into the standard of manpower in its alternative state budget. Not all parties have. We agree that we should have a standard of personnel by 2020, and of course we should also follow up the Storting order to get a plan for that. But let me just stress that more important than a plan is following up the policy itself. When we took over the government offices, we lacked 4,400 kindergarten teachers. Now the number is halved. It's good for kindergarten, it's good for the kids, and it shows that evolution is going in the right direction. But of course we'll do more. I have said that we have to meet today's standard of education before we consider an enhanced one, but we have to follow the Storting order, of course. But also in this area, we need to be concerned not only with how many kindergarten teachers we are going to have, but also with what opportunities the kindergarten teachers have, for example. through a competence strategy further developed in this Communication. The further development of the strategy and its continuation are strongly supported, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1483	When it comes to the standard of manning, it does not hold that the parties agree with its party programme, nor does it hold that it is stated in the Sundvolden Declaration, because the point is that the opposition was tired of waiting for the government to comply with the decision taken by Stortinget in spring 2013, when the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party issued the biggest message that provided for the standard of manning 2020. When we had not heard a word about this and how it was followed up, in two years, the opposition was tired of waiting for the government, made a request decision and asked the Council of State to put forward a plan for how this was to be achieved. Then the council said that this was to be seen in connection with the financing model for private and municipal kindergartens. It came, and we didn't hear a word about manning standards. How can it be that the Council of State says he is to follow up a unanimous decision on manning standards, but cannot come to Stortinget with a plan for how to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1490	I am going to follow up what Stortinget asks me to follow up. It's a matter of course that the majority decides, we're going to follow up. That it does not come in this big message is because it is primarily about the framework plan, i.e. the content of kindergarten. It is permissible to be impatient, and so am I – I have stressed several times that 2020 is the last deadline – but I would assume that this is a reason why it is stated exactly the same in three documents: in the government statement of this government, in the Labour Party programme and in the decisions taken by the previous government, namely that we should have a standard of manpower in 2020. What I think is funny is that you try to pretend that there is a disagreement about the goal. It's not. We need to have a standard of manpower by 2020, it is clear in the government statement, and when it comes, it must be followed up and, if necessary, financed. In the case of private kindergartens, I would like to answer that, but there is no time for that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1499	I have a small brochure from the Education Association in Hordaland, and on the first page it says: "What we want to see is children in search of knowledge, not the knowledge of the children in search of them." Let it hang a little bit in the air. If the government does not want results targets for single children, and if the nursery uprising, and in so far as the Christian People's Party, has misunderstood what is really in this, it is to say that the government writes in the message that they do not want to set performance targets for individual children's benefits, but they also write that they will have dividend descriptions and an indicative language standard for the linguistic basis at the end of kindergarten, and that the language standard will be operationalised in the framework of target formulations. So the question is, how can target formulations be formulated without being a result goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1513	The framework plan today consists of target formulations, but it is process targets. The crucial difference between the school curriculum and the kindergarten framework is that it's not about children being able to do it and that, it's about what children are going to do, getting in touch with, some principles for playing – the kind of thing – and it's a basic principle that I want to keep. With regard to this guidance language standard, our starting point is a strong concern that children will start school without being able to do enough Norwegian, and a desire – as we share with the majority of the population – to have a clearer, better and clearer language work in kindergarten. We have then launched what we might be able to rename, such as the idea of an indicative language standard developed by professionals and professionals – it will take time – as a support tool for kindergartens. But then I take the point that it has been controversial and debated in the sector, and that there is also no majority for it on the Stortinget, so we have to put that idea away and now work on what we agree on, namely enhanced language work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1520	The fact that it is problematic to introduce a language guide, and that one has to have a knowledge to develop it, I react to something, because in health care centres it is one at two-yearly and four-yearly checks and before school starts assesses the size of the vocabulary of the child. So my question is, if one is concerned about this in the nursery sector: instead of introducing a new norm into a nursery law, why don't the Council of State ensure that there will be better cooperation between kindergarten and health care, where one has the competence to evaluate the child in a holistic perspective, instead of introducing some rigid systems into the kindergarten? I hope the Council understands my question and can give an answer to that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1525	I fully agree with the representative’s description that we have tools today to assess children’s language development. A professional problem with these tools is that it has not been established that all screening tools are suitable for all types of children, both because of individual differences – all are different, including children, children’s language development is different – and because, for example, they are different. minority children and majority children may have different challenges. But I think it's a good opportunity to get better language work through a combination of systematic observation – which is, of course, that kindergarten teachers and kindergarten staff run every day – and awareness of language work, more systematicism in it in several kindergartens and good guidance material, which is not indicative standards, but guidance material. So I think that kindergarten is the most important venue for this, but it also has to be closer cooperation between kindergartens and other parts of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1530	The left has tabled several proposals on this matter. Among other things, we have a proposal to recruit men into kindergartens, and we have a proposal to work with the kindergarten teachers who are elsewhere than in kindergartens, to have incentives to get them back to kindergartens and to increase recruitment of other disciplines with pediatric competence into kindergartens. Now it is not certain that the Left will have a majority for these proposals, but I would say in all modesty that this is such a sensible proposal that the Council of State should work on it almost regardless of whether the Storting decides it or not. So I'd like to hear what the council thinks about the proposals, but also how he thinks we can work on this in the future. Because I think the Council of State agrees with the Left that it is important to get more men into kindergartens, and that it is also desirable that those who have trained as kindergarten teachers are in kindergartens to work with our kids. The question is how we can get them back. How does the Council of State think we can work on that in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1537	There are two questions. With regard to the recruitment of men, I think the most important thing is to make men who are in kindergarten visible, and that kindergarten owners have a strategy to recruit with gender balance. There are kindergarten owners who manage to get more men in, and there is a lot of evidence that men like to work where there are a couple of other men. So I also think a lot is about making what Nybø's representative said so well in his post, that it's professionally challenging to work with small children. That in itself shouldn't be a gender dimension, but I think seeing it can also be an important contribution to recruiting more people. When it comes to trying to lure into kindergarten teachers who are not in the sector, we have good experience working with the Christian People's Party and the Left in school, among others. to recruit more vocational teachers from work, so that's something we can work on and look at. Then, of course, we will also consider supporting the proposals – I can't say that on the stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1546	On 24 November last year, the Stortinget took the following decision: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the phase-in of a crew standard, which assesses the requirement for 50 pst. kindergarten teachers should be part of the plan.» What in that decision is it possible to misunderstand? The Council of State is talking about this as something that he has intended to do since the Sundvolden Declaration. It's almost three years ago. The councils have one simple task, and it is to report back to the Stortinget where he is in the loop with the crystal clear decision that Stortinget has taken. It means a plan for the phase-in of a crew standard and an assessment of the requirement of 50 pst. pedagogues. It's obvious that it would be natural to do it here, because this is at the very heart of what we're discussing now, namely the quality of kindergartens. It is incomprehensible that the Council of State is not using that opportunity, and then he must also find out that we are asking questions about whether he is actually at the ball. Then my simple question is, When does this plan come?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1559	I find myself in every question, I. That's a little bit of the point of stilling in Stortinget. My point has been to get two things out. First, of course, we follow up on Storting's orders. And that's an important part of the quality work in kindergarten, but, as also stated in this message, it's primarily about the work on a new framework plan. It also affects, for example: the need for a level playing field, professional replenishment and that kind of thing. We are going to come back to Stortinget with what Stortinget has ordered, but it was an order that came in November/December last year, and this message was delivered within the deadline for it to be processed this year. The other thing that I'm trying to do is that this is that agreement. Then, as I said, it is understandable and good that you are impatient – I am too – but not that you try to pretend that there is no consensus among all parties that we should have a standard by 2020. It's in the government statement, and that's exactly what the previous government said.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1568	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1571	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the job with regard to Prop. 103 L and Prop. 33 L, because it's done a good job. Children must have access to special pedagogical assistance as quickly and as early as possible when the need arises. The working party believes that the parents should not receive an extra burden and extra expenses when the children need it. We know that early efforts pay off for the development of children and for the rest of the education cycle, and it is important that those who need it receive the offer and do not opt it out because of the economy. So the government will deprive the parents of the right they have today to exemption from parental payment for the time that the child receives help or training. The Labour Party cannot support this. On the other hand, we support the NOU «For the benefit of children», which concludes that reduced childcare payments can stimulate increased use of childcare facilities and thus have a positive impact on children. We believe it is important that the system of deductions continue, and promote proposals together with the Christian People's Party on that. I Prop. 103 L a proposal on childcare rights for children born in September and October. Of course, we fully support that. But we want to remind the position of how their argument and behaviour in this matter were when they were in opposition. Pipa has now got another song. Now it is not date hysteria or unheard that kindergartens do not have ongoing admissions, nor is it a government that does not deliver. What they've done is to get a little extension to October. I expect that it tastes a little bad for those who were most eager here on the pulpit and criticized the government of Stoltenberg that time. It's good that expansion comes, but it's not much to kiss off. The queue is growing – from around 8,300 to over 10,400 – which means that it is not done enough. You don't give the money you need, because there's no bet on the kindergarten from the government. The Labour Party believes, as KS does, that non-municipal kindergartens, in line with municipal kindergartens, must be required to provide space for children with statutory rights in front of children without legal rights. It clearly does not believe the government and avoids listening again to those who know the burden and see the challenges. The government has one tipper, it's non-discrimination in the economy – private must get their money. It shows that for the government, the money goes in front of the children. That is why we are once again promoting proposals that funding should be reviewed in order to ensure equivalency in quality and availability requirements. There is not enough non-discrimination in the economy. The working party believes that it must refer to the overall picture – and above all to the best of the children. In the case of Prop. 33 L, supervision is one of the themes. Here is a case from the treatment of the future kindergarten. There, responsibility for supervision was long-term wanted to be transferred to the State – a proposal that was given to it by a majority. There is too little and too little supervision today, and it needs to be better. Reports show that there are signs of improvement, and that some municipalities do the job. If the responsibility remains in the municipalities, it is necessary to follow up that well enough further action is taken. The feedback is that the municipalities have the knowledge and competence, and that some municipalities even establish their own supervision. But again -- it's too bad. One of the main challenges for municipalities is that authority and owner are the same. KS supports that municipalities still have responsibility and believes they have the opportunity. We also see that a transfer to County will increase costs. In this round, the Labour Party has chosen to support the government in order to maintain it as a municipal supervision, but it needs to be monitored and evaluated over a two-year period to see if the positive developments we are now seeing continue. If it does not, the Workers' Party will assume responsibility for supervision. So to the question of documentation or not — how much and how far to go. It has shaped this matter very much. There has been a great commitment from organisations, and most are very sceptical and negative for increased use of screening and documentation. And most of us hear that the law opens up for it. We are currently seeing an increasing degree of evidence of children's lives in kindergarten, and we believe that the bill is opening up to document further if someone wants it. The working party believes that today’s opportunity for documentation is sufficient and that kindergarten should be a playground for play and learning, without the children being judged against others other than themselves. Every day, children learn new things, at their pace, and kindergarten workers take note of what is necessary for the children to receive the necessary offers. This can continue with today's laws. The kindergarten policy of the government comes apart and divided, and we are uncertain about the consequences of what the proposition opens to. There we are in line with most organizations, such as the United States and Japan. Association of Education and the Trade Union. So the government doesn't listen here to those who know the area the best, but takes the fight to create more uncertainty about it with documentation. We record that the government parties have submitted comments that underline that the bill does not mean any more documentation. Also the representative Harberg was up and underlined it from the pulpit. But we don't fully trust how this is going to be interpreted in the future, because when it's written in the proposition that the bill shouldn't distinguish between mapping, documentation or assessment, it's hard to be sure what the result is next. We want a decision that can't be misunderstood. We therefore ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a new proposal for Section 2 which does not facilitate more documentation. It is important to have good procedures and safe processing of personal data. The data protection report on school and kindergarten privacy is a good guide. It is noted that there are currently insufficient routines and that risk assessment is rarely carried out in kindergartens. It is important that the nursery owner knows his or her own responsibilities and, in the opinion of the Labour Party, a risk assessment should be carried out in each nursery. It is also necessary to clarify what is common information and not to need data protection rules. There's a lot of uncertainty about this. Here's a lot to deal with for the municipalities, which I hope is going to be done. Adding the right to good pedagogical services means sufficient staff with good competence in kindergartens. On 24 November 2014, we discussed a proposal by the representative Lysbakken on a staffing standard, which has been up here repeatedly. It hasn't come. On 16 December the Council of State announced that it would review the financing of private kindergartens, the aim of which was to equalise. He's been able to do that. The other thing he's just been waiting for. What matters to children in kindergarten and to employees can therefore be put on hold, while private actors have to meet their demands quickly. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are once again calling for the phase-in of the recruitment norm – and I think it is stressed enough in this hall why – by the autumn of 2016. So it's been a year. And that's what we think we should keep. I will address the suggestions we have otherwise in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1618	The representative, Sonja Mandt, has promoted the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1621	Today we are finally debating the content of the kindergarten. Yes, yes – we are going to enter rights, places, starting times and something else too, but mainly we are discussing content and quality, not waiting lists and the number of places. It's a milestone for kindergarten policy. It is now that almost all children are in kindergarten before school. That means that many people have opinions about what day-to-day babysitting is going to look like, and that commitment has been exciting to participate in the work on these issues. The Committee was recently travelling in Bergen and visited a kindergarten that had specialized in art and culture. There was an exciting kindergarten with queues of parents who wanted their children in there. The manager we met was busy telling us that kindergarten was something other than being at home. Large groups of children are given the opportunity to learn to be with others. Skilled employees have a different pedagogical approach to the children than we do to normal parents. Where I, as a parent, bribe the four-year-old with ice to relax in the evening, the kindergarten workers will probably use more educational tools. Where parents count meatcakes along with the pod, the manager of a nursery will put this into a larger learning goal. But when the little boy hits and wants to get caught at one of the employees in the kindergarten, it just gets caught in a weak second place. The safe father who hugs, patches and comforts, shall and will always be in first place. From that point of view, it is important that we have a framework plan that ensures good and even quality. Children want to learn, and they want to play. In kindergarten, children’s education, playfulness and learning potential shall be met and cared for. Learning shall take place through play and on the premises of children, and activities shall be based on the assumptions and needs of each child. We do not get good contents in kindergarten without competent employees. And while we're waiting for the crew standard, which has been taken up repeatedly here, and which the majority in this room are agreed to by 2020, it must be allowed to be satisfied that this year we're spending 410 million. kr for quality and competence measures in kindergarten. There's more than one double in three years. That the number of exemptions from the education requirement goes down and that the number of pedagogues in kindergartens goes up are also nice figures. The social security network must accept those who really need it. Therefore, a national minimum of reduced parental pay has been introduced. The scheme ensures that no household must use more than 6 pst. of total taxable income in a kindergarten. A more targeted system for free core time is also in place in kindergarten. This applies to three-, four- and five-year-olds from low-income families. We give priority to reaching the families that really need it, instead of giving support to certain geographical areas. Children may need additional help in the training process and it is important to get in early with this help. The provisions for children under compulsory school age who need special educational or sign language training have until now been covered by the Training Act. Most of the children who receive this help go to kindergarten, so a more logical location would be to place the provisions on this under the nursery law, as it is now proposed. In addition, it is proposed to link the PP service closer to the nursery. The PP service shall assist the kindergarten in the development of competence and organisation. Working together to facilitate even better early work is an important and right way to go. Municipal boundaries are being discussed across the whole country during these days. For some, these limits are the most important thing in the world to preserve, and for children and adults who need a little bit more help, they can remind a little bit more of insurmountable barriers. Therefore, I am pleased that changes are now being made, so that the decision of the removal municipality on special pedagogical assistance is valid until the transfer municipality takes a new decision. Continuity of assistance is important, and this must not be hindered by invisible boundaries. I started this article by saying that we were going to talk about quality today, but nevertheless it has to be mentioned that flexibility also increases by one-year-olds born in the period from 1 September to 31. October shall be taken into account from the month in which they are 1 year old.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1647	The experience of children in kindergarten today helps to lay the foundation for their later life opportunities. The ability to be a fellow human being and to contribute to the creation of good fellowship will be influenced by the experiences and experiences that children have with them from kindergarten and their everyday lives there. The nursery shall provide safe and good care and, at the same time, stimulate play and development on the premises of children. Research underpins the importance of children having basic and good social skills before they begin school. There is a link between the quality of childcare services and the individual’s health, education and the economy of an adult age. The content and quality of kindergarten are essential contributions to good school outcomes and a foundation for success in working and social life. The learning of children is a coherent process throughout the educational cycle. In kindergarten, the child’s learning ability and learning potential shall be met and maintained in a care and learning environment characterised by safety, inclusion and play. Knowledge and competence, skills and attitudes are developed in interaction with others in meaningful communities where children have the opportunity to express themselves. The play is the basic learning form of the child and must also have a prominent place in the kindergarten in the future. The kindergarten teacher shall facilitate good pedagogical processes that strengthen and support children’s learning and development through challenges and that are adapted to each child. The school shall be based on the foundation that children carry with them from kindergarten. It requires that kindergarten and school cooperate, as I know, in many municipalities around the country today, so that they know each other's professional assessment of the way they work and culture. In kindergarten and school, children and young people will meet a content that matters to their lives here and now, but at the same time lays a solid foundation for future social and work life. Children and young people shall be active participants in the learning process, they shall be challenged, and they shall experience the benefits and pleasure of solving increasingly advanced problems and finding satisfactory answers. From kindergarten, children shall have basic, good social and linguistic skills. At school, students will go deeper into professional content, concepts and contexts, and students will increasingly be able to use their skills to acquire more knowledge. Given how much a good kindergarten can mean for children, and how much resources in the form of public transfers and parental payments are used in the kindergarten sector in Norway, we should expect a good and high quality childcare provision. Low-quality childcare services affect the child’s safety, well-being, play, development and learning in everyday life and provide them with a poor starting point for further growth and schooling. High quality of the offer is important for children to have a good childhood, as well as for health promotion. I would also like to highlight the need to ensure that all kindergartens are working well in the development of children's languages. This applies as part of the general educational offer for all children, and also for children with a minority language background. A good Norwegian-speaking foundation is essential for children's further education, education and professional life. Minority-speaking children who have been in kindergarten for several years should be able to master Norwegian well enough at school to receive satisfactory benefits from school education. Contributing to the best possible linguistic basis for children at school is one of the most important tasks of kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1673	Twelve-thirteen years ago, I was delighted to be the case rapporteur for what was going to be the Stortinge’s big nursery settlement, where all the parties in the Stortinge group agreed on a very ambitious objective: to ensure full childcare coverage, to introduce a maximum price, to expand the number of pedagogues, to provide a childcare facility for all. Twelve years later, we can celebrate that we've reached our goal. We're using 20 billion this year. kr more per year to kindergarten than we did before the large-scale escalation started. Most of it came under the red-green government, so those who sometimes say that nothing happened when Stoltenberg was appointed Prime Minister, at least in this area can see that one of the greatest welfare reforms in Norway's history was carried out – 150 000 more full-time seats in kindergarten, over 40,000 more employees, safer everyday life for families, the possibility of professional participation for men and women and, of course, also what is being discussed today, a fantastic platform to give all children a good start in life: the opportunity to learn languages, the opportunity to learn to get together with others, the opportunity to prepare for schooling, but also the opportunity to feel safe and well-being every single day. Childhood is not just a preparation for adult life. Childhood is a life in itself to be filled with quality and joy. It has not been long since the Minister of Knowledge made teacher riots in the field of school, and it would be thought that it was learned and understood that it is important to create good contact, cooperation and anchoring in those who are actually going to implement the policy when new initiatives are taken. But unfortunately, we've got a new uprising now, a nursery uprising. The right is saying that they're happy that the issues being presented are creating discussion, and that's fine, but it's even nicer with a broad commitment, understanding and enthusiasm about what the Storing is about, and what the government is thinking of implementing. Then the way to change children's lives is also much shorter. It is anxiety, anxiety and anger that best describe the reactions that have occurred, after the government presented the issues where they put out a new course for kindergartens. That's a shame, because 97 pst. Among children from three to five years of age now in kindergarten, there is a formidable opportunity to balance differences. We know from research that early action and follow-up early in life are very crucial for how it goes later. We've had discussions in school policy about increasing efforts from first to fourth stages. We proposed a reading, writing and calculating guarantee for second-class ratings. We haven't had a majority for that. Nevertheless, the opposition parties the Christian People's Party and the Left have been permeated in the agreement on the budget for an effort that the government itself cannot afford: more teachers in the small school stage and more attention to the early efforts. We have long seen one in four students — for 20 years, coal after coal — end up in high school before they have completed and passed. We've been looking for reasons in the transition between high school and high school. We've been looking for new GIV and FYR projects – what it's all called – and transition projects, and it's got zero results. The reason is that this disqualification starts in children's learning very much earlier. It starts early in school, yes, for some people already in kindergarten that much of this foundation is laid. Therefore, there is full support in the Storting that kindergarten is a learning arena. Children have a great ability to learn when they play, and play when they learn, and of course this should be facilitated in kindergartens. The problem and where the Council of State goes wild is: what central management and what central direction do our good pedagogues in kindergarten need in order to actually do that job? It sometimes seems that you think about both school and kindergarten that if not the Education Directorate or the Department of Knowledge instruct people to do it one way or the other, there is no learning. But these are people who have years of education in teaching children, in taking care of children, in doing quality educational work, which are the ones who see the kids every day, who experience the social situations, who know home and parents, and who have to use their experience, their knowledge and their education to create good opportunities for all children. Had the Council of State listened to the sector, to those who know the most about the development of children and what works in kindergartens, he would have realized that those in the sector do not believe that some of the new initiatives of the government will lead to more quality. On the contrary, there is a warning against several of them. The government's answer is that no, it wasn't really meant to be that way, it's really the things they're already doing, the screening tests, the tools that already exist, that's what's to be used. It must strike the council that it is very strange that there will be so much conflict if he really just suggests that things should continue as before. Somewhere this conflict must come from. It may be the training association's fault that there will be a conflict about this, that there will be a conflict about the absence limit in the student organisation, or that there will be a conflict of competence between teachers' organisations. However, when there is conflict in areas by area, with the sector, it may also have something to do with the work of the Ministry of Knowledge, not working closely enough on them, not getting an understanding of reforms or perhaps not listening and finding these more agreed solutions that are thus also being implemented. The sector itself says that they essentially don't need so many more tools. They need, first of all, time and resources to use the tools that exist. It doesn't help much, says the sector, that we need to have even more tools to monitor that students or kindergarten kids are struggling with reading or language, if we don't have time to take the consequences of students struggling with reading or language. A good parallel is one thing we have in school, where the minister of knowledge a month and a half ago was on the TV 2 news, deeply shocked that half of the kids in school go out without being able to swim, and where we are here in the hall, for example. have proposed the introduction of an obligation for all schools and municipalities to teach young people how to swim. It was voted down by the Right. What is Right's answer instead? Well, putting in a screening test on whether the students can swim. But the mapping is there. The background for the whole news item was that half could not swim, and it takes the teachers approx. Five seconds to figure out if the kids can swim or not, it's just to bring them in the water, you see it right away. What's missing is time to teach them to swim, time to teach. It's this thing that's the whole difference between the left and right school and kindergarten policies, that you think you can only measure to better quality. One is extremely concerned about measuring the results in school, but one has to start to focus on creating results in school, and in the same way we have to think about kindergarten policy. You don't just have to measure the results. You have to create results. You have to make sure that the pedagogical staff, all the amazing professionals and assistants who work with the kids every day, actually get the job they're very aware of. The children's gardening effort of the Stoltenberg government helped to give us a unique opportunity. Here we can discover the children who have come out wrong for some reason. Here we can discover the children who, if we don't help them, may be striving for the rest of their lives. We can find them early. We can assist them early. We can give them a completely different start. But how are we going to find these kids if we don't have enough adults to look for? How are we going to find these challenges and help them get started better if we don't have time to help? The working party has good solutions for how this is to be done. Point one: get enough competent adults in place, so that every child is seen, and so that adults in a professional environment can assess who needs extra help and provide the assistance needed. Point two: ensure that kindergartens have good plans for the systematic follow-up of those who need it. This can be done by spending a little less time on controversial mass-monitoring tools and, instead, requiring all kindergartens to develop a plan that ensures systematic observation, assessment and follow-up of children’s development, such as: the new nursery agency from the Workers' Party is doing in Oslo. When a child is discovered hanging out, the nursery chooses the best screening tool they think is. They identify the children the pedagogical leader thinks they need it, and put in place the follow-up they think the child needs, and parents and supervisors should be involved all the way – unbureaucratic, the resources put in where they are needed, they get to do the job they are assigned to, trust and flexibility that helps young people. It also means that we do not use resources on unnecessary forms, mapping and bureaucracy. We know that this government seems to have its own goal of increasing the number of bureaucrats as much as possible. We don't share that goal, but we think that resources need to be spent on learning, on quality and on development. The invitation from the Workers' Party to the Minister of Knowledge is: Use the knowledge that lies there, all the amazing employees, the recordings that come from there. Then we create a kindergarten that can work well for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1701	The steady and sustained strengthening of the nursery services provided by this government is motivated by the fact that we want to give all children a safe and good time in kindergartens. Many important measures include the introduction of a clear social profile, both through free core time and through the national minimum requirement for reducing parental pay, or – a little more popular – that no one has to pay more than 6 pst. of the total taxable income of a nursery place. The importance of kindergarten for the development of children is – as we have heard here in the Chamber, but as we can also see through both national and international research – very well documented, and there are some findings that it is worth highlighting: the competence of staff, the quality of the relationship between adults and children, the quality of the work of kindergartens – it is in itself a good social economy as well – and naturally: a good quality of childcare provision, which is important both for language development and the general development of children. In Norwegian kindergartens today, there is consistently good evidence in a number of areas. It is not our intention to make demands for more documentation or new documentation, even though the discussion around Section 2 in particular has had an impact on that perception. A bit of that can be understood when you hear the representative Mandt saying that she doesn't really trust what we're saying, not when the council says it, when it says it in the notice or when all our representatives say it. Rather, it is about making the best possible use of the documentation that you already have by making the responsibility of the Kinderhagen for the processing of the documentation visible. To put it simply, it is about structuring and maintaining the existing documentation in a safe and effective way, which, in addition to stressing the responsibility of processing personal data, also facilitates more systematic use of the documentation in the development work of each nursery and in the general area of kindergarten, but also in relation to each child. It is therefore about collecting existing information and documentation and facilitating even better procedures for the use and handling of this documentation. We have high ambitions in kindergarten. After many years of focusing on quantity, it is a pleasure that we now have a period and a debate with a focus on quality. Good kindergartens now have the opportunity to get even better. Furthermore, there is also a change in the supervision of kindergartens. There has been a call for independent supervision in the debate, to which my own party has also in the past been positive. Nevertheless, we see – as others have pointed out – that moving the entire supervision out of the municipality removes important child health skills in each municipality. There is also a reason – as Norwegian municipalities slowly but surely grow – to believe that these professional environments are becoming even more professional than they are today. A more central competence may be accommodating, but we have found that it is a strength to have the professional environment in each municipality. Then there is also an important change: the county council is now also given the supervisory authority, which opens up to parents, their children, kindergarten owners and employees an opportunity to lift the case out of the municipality and in front of the county council. We believe that this is a good arrangement, and we look forward to the practice. It will provide the basis for any future debate and any evaluation of its functioning. It is essential that supervision has credibility and trust among all who work, work in or have children in kindergarten. The fact that there is now access to independent supervision and that it can be activated strengthens the system, and we think it will be positive. It's said many times that the children are the most important thing we have. Kindergartens with good quality, good overview, good routines, dedicated owners and a government with high ambitions in the field, as well as good safety nets to capture faults or shortcomings, enable us all to send our children safely to kindergarten in the future, in confidence that they have good days with time for play and learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1722	It is amazing that the need to enhance the quality of kindergartens is launched as a new idea. I allow myself to wish the Council of State welcome after. We can start with St.meld. No 41 for 2008-2009, which was just named ‘Kondehagen Quality’. The notification referred to both needs, direction and concrete improvements, in particular with regard to childcare staff. Then come Meld. St. 24 for 2012–2013, called the Future Kindergarten, which was the highest quality notification and was treated as late as spring 2013. The setting shows that in several areas it is only possible to set in motion, that kindergarten educators are entitled not to need a new message, and that they are of course concerned with quality. They are every day. One could expect the Solberg government to follow up Storting’s treatments instead of ‘restarting’. There is good reason to believe that any government will be concerned with the quality of our kindergartens, but the ability and willingness to actually contribute seems improperly different. Enough and competent staff are the main means of facilitating good quality in kindergartens. Therefore, the Stortinget – all parties, except the Advance Party – supported a standard of crewing during the examination of the future kindergarten notification, which has been discussed by many in their contributions in the past. In line with the Stoltenberg government’s proposal, the government stated that a standard of living with one adult per three young children and one adult per six large children should be the rule by 2020. Here it is expressed by the fact that the majority of the population have asked for a plan from the Council of State, and we are still waiting. According to the Education Directorate, there were 283,684 children in kindergarten in 2015. There are almost 2,730 fewer children in kindergarten than in 2014. About 10 pst. So children of kindergarten age don't go to kindergarten. The nursery queue has increased from 8,334 to 10,411 children. 10,411 children in line can be illustrated by, for example, 371 school classes of 28 students. This shows that we are going the wrong way, and it is not consistent with a goal of ensuring that everyone is entitled to a nursery place. At the same time, there is reason to recall that the Council of State contributed a cut in the number of posts of about 7 000, as its first contribution to the 2014 State budget. At the time, ironically, he chose away exactly what he is now proposing, as the date fixing of the right to kindergarten for 1-year-olds, and had great faith that more people would choose cash support in front of kindergarten. The result was this: lost years for kindergarten development and lost years for children in kindergarten. In terms of staff, there were 74,669 years old in the kindergartens in 2015 – a decrease of 320 years old from 2014. But neither does it seem to be able to arouse the involvement of the Council of State in the previously mentioned recruitment norm, strangely enough. The children deserve a standard of manning over a standard of language. Finally, I will give all the support to the many who have been with and honoured the kindergartens today as a good venue for our children. I feel that we agree. It gives us parents the opportunity to be sure that when we go to work, our children are well cared for. The play, the socialization, the community and the sense of mastery are all pieces of a day of kindergarten that we can be proud of, that we can fend for, and that work school-preparing for all ages.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1741	As previously notified, I will come back and clarify how the Right and Advance Party will vote in the cases. I'm also taking the option to Prop. 103 L for 2015–2016, as we follow as it is available, so there's nothing special to say. In the Prop settings. 33 L for 2015-2016, the Right and Advance Party have a proposal for a decision because we have a majority in the Committee but do not have a majority in the Chamber. Then there are two proposals dealing with Section 2, first paragraph, which has been promoted in the Chamber. It is a minority proposal in the vote, from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, and it is a proposal from the Left. When we know that we do not get a majority in favour of the Committee's position on Section 2, first paragraph, we choose to vote in favour of proposal No. 4 in the case, i.e. the proposal that the Left supports – and therefore not for what is under A, Section 2, first paragraph. So to the big shot. Here's a lot of suggestions and maybe challenging to clear them, but we've done it to the best of our ability. We are going to vote in favour of the vote on minority motion No. 3, paragraph 4 and Nos 5th@item: inlistbox Let's move on to the Left's proposal. Proposal No. 10 we're going to support. Here we need to explain something, because we're in on I, for which we agreed in committee, because we saw that there was a majority to do it differently when we were to point out the responsibility for and the importance of securing the languages of employees. The left has made a proposal in which they have described this in a good way – the government will come back to it – and have also included Sami languages. We think it's a good formulation and a good way to solve it, so we support it. Thus, we do not support I in the setting. Then we support proposal No. 11 and we support proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox That's where they put an "appraisal" that makes it easier for us to go in for it. Proposal No. 17 we'll also go in for. We will move on to the proposal of the Centre Party, in which we will be voting for proposal No. 27. Just a small explanation here too: when we do not follow the request from the representative of the Left who was given to the Council of State to accept the proposal No. 15 and No 16, where one is about recruiting men, it's because both proposals for recruitment are formulated in such a way that they have an economic impact. Most people here in the Chamber know that it's hard for government parties to go in for something that binds the budget. The proposal of the Centre Party to pay attention to recruiting men does not have such an effect. So we're going to go in for that. Then I think I've been through what's going on. It is probably a bit challenging to follow up on it, but I know that the secretariat has good control over this. Most of the parties we've been in dialogue with, so they should know about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1759	I have reason to say a few words about Report. St. 19 for 2015–2016, as I was the case spokesman for the two legislative proposals. Norwegian kindergartens keep on top of a high quality and make important contributions to a childhood filled with chiselling and meaningful companionship. We are concerned that we need to strengthen the feedback culture in kindergartens. It is crucial that all parents get good and clear feedback on how their children feel when their mother and father are not present. This is particularly important for the very smallest children, who cannot express themselves as well as those who are older. Not all children do well in kindergarten: unfortunately, studies show that the kindergarten sector has several challenges and does not aim to create an inclusive care and learning environment for all. There are too many variations in the quality of the general educational provision, and many children lack adequate Norwegian language competence at school start. Many children in need of special support and organisation are not adequately provided. The transition and the connection between kindergarten and school may be improved. Therefore, pediatric security is a priority for the government in the new information on a better kindergarten. The new framework plan has high ambitions for the well-being of children, the development of language and learning in everyday life. Children should leave kindergarten with experience, knowledge and skills that are valuable for their wider life cycle and for a life in a more complex and diverse society. The peculiarity of kindergarten is about learning through games. We are concerned with the exploration and curiosity of the children, to which it is to be stimulated on their own premises. Grown-ups are required. For the Progress Party and the Government, it is important to strengthen the educational work in order to ensure a good and appropriate supply for all children. The kindergarten shall have systems and procedures to ensure that children in need of specific organisation or support are provided with the facilities they need, if necessary in cooperation with other institutions. We want to clarify the national frameworks that regulate the most important aspects of kindergarten. Within the framework of the national frameworks, owners and members must be able to base their choices on parents and authority levels. This will also make it easier for parents to know what they can expect from kindergarten. Good parental cooperation is fundamental. At the same time, children and parents should experience greater coherence and continuity in the transition between kindergarten and school, although kindergarten and school are different educational institutions. Exposed children are particularly vulnerable in transition, and many kindergarten teachers tell us that they already in kindergarten think about which of the children they're rescued will drop out of school later. For the community, it's crucial that we get better at capturing these kids and putting in proper help measures early enough. The government has delivered a lot in the kindergarten area, but there is still some left. I am proud that during the government period we have significantly strengthened the social profile of kindergarten. There is a national minimum reduction of parental benefit that ensures that no household has to use more than 6 pst. the taxable income in a nursery place, with the maximum price as an upper limit. Free core time for four- and five-year-olds from low-income families has been introduced, and from 1 August 2016, the free core time offer will also include three-year-olds from low-income families. The government has facilitated the creation of 3,400 new children's seats, making it easier for municipalities to have a more flexible recording. Support is also provided for preparatory symmetry training in kindergarten — an important measure to ensure that children are safe in water, so as to prevent drowning accidents. Some children and parents will still feel that the smallest children have the best home in their first years of life, but as politicians, we have to take responsibility for the safety and the best possible, especially when most families use him. Kindergarten cannot be unaffected by changes in society. Parents should be able to set child safety requirements. We expect kindergartens to provide children with security, care and experiences and give parents clear feedback on how their children are doing in everyday life when parents are not present. I want to thank everyone for a good debate. I'm a little left with the word that's been used most today, that's enough "manning norm". It is quite unlikely, and fascinating at the same time, that a standard of personnel that we all agree on – even in the Progress Party – has got the big conversation in place here in the Chamber today. In any case, thank you for a good debate, all of you.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1782	I would first of all like to thank you for a good debate here today, a debate that shows clear dividing lines between the government parties and the opposition, which suggests that the government parties are more concerned with systems than human beings, concerned with more measurement and monitoring than with the qualitatively good follow-up. It is good that the debate also shows through that the government parties do not get a majority for their most extreme proposals, but I am glad that the Council of State in the Chamber today is so humble that he admits exactly that – that here the government does not have a majority for its proposals. It might have been interesting to hear if the government parties and the state councils still felt that the introduction of language norms, dividends, requirements, etc. and more evidence is still a good idea, or whether they realise that the opposition, with its proposals here today and its rewriting of proposals, has improved the attitude and thus the kindergarten policy. That is what the opposition is doing today, with its proposals and its decisions. We do better quality work in kindergartens, but within the framework and the good tradition that we are accustomed to in the Norwegian kindergarten policy. And now the government has to follow up. I have my doubts that the government will blindly follow the decisions of the majority of the Grand Duchy today, when we have seen the inability to follow up most of the decisions on the standard of living and the percentage of kindergarten teachers that the Grand Duchy has previously made – in two decisions. We are making a third decision today, but the Council of State confirms once again in the Chamber that he will not follow up the decisions of the Stortinget, and make a plan for how this will be followed up. On the contrary, the Council of State and the representatives of the government parties say that this is what we agree that it is going to happen by itself. That's not right, it has to be done. But then it is not that we in this room have agreed that we should have 50 pst. pedagogical density. If the Right Party and the Advance Party believe it today, it is something new, in that case. Then they can explain it. So far, they have only said that they are in favour of a standard by 2020, but not 50 pst. pedagogical density. Therefore, I have no faith that the government will complete this work. When it comes to language requirements for employees, the opposition has been concerned that we need to impose stricter requirements on employees to be able to do Norwegian, because it is important for the language work in the kindergarten that our kids learn Norwegian well. But what was presented by the government, we thought it was too strict, that it was going to prevent flexibility in those kindergartens where this is no problem, for example. where all employees meet the language requirements and wish to be employed, for example: a minority-speaking man, who may not meet the language requirement at the start of his employment but who may meet other requirements for working in kindergarten, for example. it with male role models. So we got a good solution together with the government parties about a change in the text of that language requirement, but now we hear that the Left Party is proposing something else, for which the government parties choose to go. I believe, after hearing the debate today, that we all agree that the language requirement should not be designed in such a way that it prevents that kind of flexibility, and I am pleased that representatives of several parties say so. So we're going to vote subsidiaryly for the Left's proposal, and then we'll see when the matter comes back to the Stortinget, if the government has followed up what we've said in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1795	The President will note that the Right has speaking time left, and therefore ask the Council of State if he wants the word for a five-minute post now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1798	Thank you – it’s fine when there’s speaking time left. Just specifically to what the representative Tritenbergstien said: I have confirmed that I am going to follow up the decision of the majority of the population. I don't know how many times I'm going to say that – I've also said this before here that when the big crowd asks for a plan, it's my job as a councillor to follow the big crowd. It's called parliamentaryism. So I've confirmed it. What I've been trying to figure out, anyway, is that it's strange that you're trying to make a conflict around a case where all of the parties in here have the same point of view. It is stated in the Government’s statement ‘Staffing Standards by 2020’, which reads in the Workers’ Party’s Staff Regulations by ‘2020’, and the previous government had the standard ‘by 2020’. [[...]] So I also have to say that when you first get high and dark, you might also pay to have some money, that you even show through your alternative budgets that you really mean this. The Christian People's Party has added 300 million. kr to crew standard. As far as I can see, there are many other parties that have not done so – no one mentioned, no one forgotten. Then, of course, the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, continue to believe what we have promoted for the Storting, and that is also the reason why when the Left promotes a proposal in the Chamber that is closer to – and really up to – what we have proposed, it is natural for us to go for it. Finally, in the case of documentation, it is not that we have proposed a law home to provide more evidence in kindergarten or more screening in kindergarten. That is precisely why the Right and the Progressive Party will vote in favour of the Left proposal, where it is clearly emphasised. Let me just give you an example. The representative Trettebergstuen writes in a chronicle in VG today – where I agree very much – about what they do in Oslo. In Oslo they require kindergartens to have plans for systematic observation of children’s language development. I would assume that this is also documented in some way, that language development is not only a plan for systematic observation, but that there is also some kind of documentation, perhaps especially with regard to the children you are extra worried about, in order to give feedback to parents in conversations, and that you have something to do with staff meetings when discussing this, and for various other reasons. This type of documentation is personal data, and the nursery does not currently have a clear legal basis for processing that type of personal data, and that is the home we are occupied with for the nursery. This does not mean that kindergartens should document more. It also does not mean that kindergartens have to document less, but that means that you have to have a clear basis for the documentation you are doing in kindergartens today. Today it is in regulation, then it will be raised in law. So I take to the point that the Storting wants an even clearer frame of that proposal. You are, at least apparently, agreeing on the intention, but you want a clearer frame of mind, and we have to come back to the Stortinget with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1813	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1816	For Prop. 103 L for 2015–2016: It is up to the municipality to decide how to organise the admission of children born in September or October. The municipality's obligation is to provide space from the month when the child reaches the age of one, and the child's right is to have a place in the nursery in the municipality in which it is resident, from the month when the child reaches the age of one year. The municipality may choose to provide these children with space during August, but it is important to stress that the municipality does not have the possibility to require start-up and to require parental payment from August onwards by parents with children born in September or October. It is up to the kindergarten or municipality to determine which day during the month – i.e. the month when the child reaches the age of one – the child can start, and the parents will be obliged to pay the parental payment from the starting date set by the municipality or kindergarten, provided that it is within the month when the child reaches the age of one year. It is also important to stress that the purpose of the extension of the right to kindergarten is to ensure that several one-year-olds have children's playgrounds, not to facilitate or provide incentives for former kindergartens for children under one year of age. It is stated in the government's consultation note that kindergartens must: «have a higher density of kindergarten teachers during the period August to October than the minimum requirement laid down in the pedagogical norm in order to receive children during September/October». Furthermore, it is written: ‘However, a higher density of employees in August/September will be an advantage in view of the quality of kindergartens. In August there will be many new children in most kindergartens. Several kindergarten teachers and employees per child can contribute to better follow-up opportunities for all children in a familiarisation phase.» This legislative decision shall facilitate the possibility for several one-year-olds to start in kindergarten when they need space, and the financing of this is a state responsibility. Additional expenditure on kindergartens and municipalities is covered by the state budget. I just want to clarify it, because there have been some signs that you have not fully understood what this movement of the date limit has meant, and that this will result in greater costs for the municipalities. It is important to clarify that this is not to be burdened on either kindergarten or municipality; this is to be granted under the State budget. Then I find the debate we have had on the standard of personnel and the standard of kindergarten teachers quite interesting. The Minister of Knowledge has pointed out that there is full agreement in this Chamber that a standard of manning should be introduced by 2020. But it might have been interesting to hear – the representative of Trettebergstien was a little bit into it – if the minister of knowledge would also say that there is a full consensus of at least 50 pst. kindergarten teachers, a nursery teacher’s code. If the right means it now, it's very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1835	The message reads: «On the basis of a precise foundation of the Children's Homes Act, the Government will provide clear guidance on the obligation to follow the development, well-being and learning of the individual child through observation, documentation and assessment.» That is why the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been sceptical about proposal No. 3 in the setting, to set goals for kindergarten work with language, etc. Now we see that there's going to be a multiple, so we're going to support proposal No. 3 in the settings, but I want to tell the speakers that we expect that there will be no more documentation or mapping, and that it will be done in a good way. Otherwise we shall support the proposal No. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8 in the setting for the kindergarten message. We also support I and II and the proposal from the SV, which is loose and distributed in the Chamber. We are going to support the proposal No. 11, 14, 16 and 17 from the left. I have not given written notice to the Presidency on No. 17 and No 17 3rd@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 4, to consider giving children the right to listen to a group of children and to children's group size, I think I'm too little mentioned in this nursery message. The size of the children group is important, especially for the smallest children. The fact that they've got other kids to decorate themselves after, and that they've got adults to decorate themselves after, can mean as much as the crew density. I hope that the Council of State can take it along. In the case of a guiding norm for the linguistic basis – that a norm is to be established as to what children should bring with them from kindergarten – I would like to make it clear, as I mentioned in the lines of action, that these assessments are being carried out today by young people. What I'm responding to is the formulation that one should have a norm for what the kids should bring with them from kindergarten. The language development of young people starts from birth, with ploughing, the first words, etc., and it happens on a continuous basis. I'm holding on to what I said, here one must also have a good cooperation with the health centre if one has a suspicion. When the kids are two years old, they should be able to say some sentences. I tried my own kid on two birthdays and asked: Øystein, can you tell Øystein two years? Then he answered me, No, your dust. Then I found out that he was well mapped, but there might be other things about the child that were not as good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1851	There has been a slightly special debate because it has been marked by two different directions. On the one hand, it is the left and the centre parties, who have stood up for what has been the traditional approach to kindergarten policy, a continuation of the long lines of Norwegian kindergarten policy, which is based on play, well-being, social security, based on an idea that more adults and more pedagogues are the most important in getting more quality in everyday life for the young, and that the path to learning does not go through more screening, through more target management, through more detailed management of pedagogues. On the other hand, it is the right-hand side, who has presented a course in the message, and who has used this debate to either explain that they have been misunderstood, or that the course really does not apply. This at least suggests that self-confidence with regard to your own message, from the Right and the Advance Party, has fallen significantly during the time when the Stortinge has dealt with the kindergarten message, and that is also a good reason. And I want to give a big boost to those who are behind the kindergarten uprising, and who have got this and made it possible for us to get the kindergarten policy back on track. I promised instead to come back with an explanation of vote. We have a very high number of proposals to deal with. I don't think I'm going to bore the assembly by going through absolutely everyone, our vote has been delivered to the secretariat, but I just want to say that we support the Roman number decisions in the different settings. We will also vote in favour of all the minority proposals that either the Labour Party alone or the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have promoted, both in the Inner Union. 338 L, i Innst. 344 L – with a small exception, of which the Secretariat has been informed – and in the Innst. 348 S. We will also vote in favour of most of the proposals promoted by the Centre Party and the Left, as well as, of course, the SV's own proposals. What we see here today is a broad consensus between the centre parties and the left of the kindergarten policy, which promises good for the future, and which it will also be wise for the Council of State to set up. The very most important message the Council of State can bring with it – that is, in this case, as in a number of other matters he is dealing with – is: Listen more to the sector! Then we will have less conflict, and we will also get a faster path to decisions that can bring the sector forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1864	Most importantly, maybe if you listen more to those who have things on it, it gets better both school and kindergarten, and that's what we all want. I want to say I'm a little happy, because I feel like the world is going a little bit ahead. In 1973 I began to engage in kindergartens, and then the debate did not take place as it has done today. There were a lot of people who were very opposed to kindergartens at all, and a lot of people who couldn't even imagine that it was going to be a child's right, that it was going to be cheap, or that it was good for children and the family. On the contrary, most of the parties sitting in this room were very opposed to kindergartens until SV took the initiative of a kindergarten settlement and changed Norway for the better – for the young, for the families and for economic growth for the country. I'm very proud of that and happy about it. The issue today is the quality of kindergartens. When parents bring their children to the kindergarten, they bring the most precious things they have. I have worked in kindergarten for 17 years, accepted this precious and know that it is difficult to stretch to, especially for us who were not skilled at that time. But good, skilled kindergarten teachers are gold worth, there are too few of them, and many children's groups are too large. So if kindergartens are to be as good as they should be in order for all kids to develop as positively as they can, then more kindergarten teachers need to do so, and it needs to become a standard of manning, and it needs to be a roof in terms of the number of children, because it is not only possible to expand, expand and expand. One of the debates here is that of language mapping. Yeah, it happens all the time in kindergarten. But if you're in kindergarten and you're not safe because the adults don't have time for you, my experience is that some kids might not say a stone's word. Some kids talk early, some kids talk late, and good and enough kindergarten teachers master a lot of methods that make children crack the codes earlier, and can be safe on their sails. Finally, children realize terribly early that they are being measured and surveyed. It may be a trace for someone, but for most people there is a lump in the stomach. That by monitoring and measurement, you help children get mastery feeling, as you say, I have to say that I have no faith in. The kindergarten will have enough competent staff, so that children master, and if there are enough employees with good aptitude in kindergarten, this is going well for everyone, most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1877	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1880	I've promised to explain how we're going to vote today, and now a lot is going to be said on the in and out of breath in 1 minute. I can start with Innst. 344 L to Prop. 33 L. The proposals of the Christian People's Party are on, have already been taken up, but I would like to inform you that subsidiaryly we will vote in favour of the Left's proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox With regard to the notification of gross domestic product, we draw proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The other proposals from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have already been addressed. The proposal of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in the Inner East. 338 L to Prop. 103 L has already been recorded. So to the proposals of the parties that are not on the committee. We are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 11, paragraph 14, paragraph 16 and No 16 17 and proposal No. 19–23, Nos. 25 and No 27. Then I think I've explained how we relate to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1896	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1910	The President-in-Office of the Council, Tom E.B. Holthe, who is actually the first speaker, is not present. Per Olaf Lundt owns the word first.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1913	The case rapporteur will probably present the setting. I will present the matter from the centre party's point of view. Firstly, this matter is extremely important, because clean, safe food and safe drinks are incredibly important for public health. There is a happy development in Norwegian opinion, which is that more and more people are becoming aware of the need to make greater demands on food. Many of the lifestyle diseases and public health problems we have are based on the fact that food and drink contain substances that over time cause serious complications. Point two: The matter is serious because what has been the Big City's long-term objectives has not been taken seriously, and is not taken seriously, by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I am very pleased with the report from the Riksrevision that goes into a topic and assesses whether what has been said in this room over 16 years, is well, has been followed up or not. It's commendable, and it's the Riks revision in honor. The size has been a target for organic farming since 1999. Then it was said that the goal was that 10 pst. of the total agricultural area should have been converted into organic farming by 2010. In 2005, the target was changed to 15 pst. production and consumption should be organic by 2015. So one saw that it was hard to reach, so in 2010 the time period was extended to 2020. We have precise objectives. The objectives are so precise that organic food production is to be carried out at 15 pst. of the total agricultural area, and it is clearly defined what agricultural area is, it is perfectly clear to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in its statistics. It says 15 pst. the organic nature of the livestock. Pets also know the Ministry of Agriculture and Food what is in relation to wild animals. So we're talking about domestics. It's ambitious, it all agrees, but the Storting was aware that it was ambitious goals when the goals were set. What I am now saying is that there is a unanimous committee behind it: the precision of the objectives, that it is ambitious, and that the Storting was aware that it was ambitious, when the objectives were set. Organic farming is defined in the organic production legislation of the organic production and labelling regulation of organic agricultural products and foodstuffs of 4 October 2005, the so-called organic regulation. All producers of organic agricultural products and foodstuffs must comply with public legislation in this area. So it's exactly regulated. This ecological mode of operation is based on a number of assumptions. Natural resources shall be managed in such a way as to avoid harmful effects on the environment, thereby ensuring the long-term fertility of the soil. Genetic diversity and species diversity must be ensured, and organic farming must create an environment that meets the natural behaviour and needs of livestock. Then comes what is the most difficult and most demanding, namely that there should be a shift of growth that should be as varied as possible, and plant cultivation should be set up to prevent weeds, diseases and pests, and to minimise the recycling of organic material. It is very demanding to farm organically with the least possible weeds. Anyone who's tried to practice it knows that. Needles are easier to use. Organic farming provides for a balance between land and livestock farming with regard to the production of feed and the use of manure – glittering. It is old knowledge that there must be consistency between the livestock that you have, that lives on plants, and the area on which you have to grow plants – good, old, value-conservative knowledge that organic farming has now taken on. It is to their credit. Organic farming aims to ensure that products are based on the overall starting point even after processing. Processing is therefore also essential. What you put into the raw materials, how you process them, is also essential, for anyone who reads a product information, sees all the substances that are put into it one should eat, after it has left the primary agriculture. Furthermore, in organic farming there is a requirement that genetically modified organisms and products derived therefrom should not be used. Genetically modified organisms, if we take plants for example, are plants that tolerate sprays that are of such a nature that common plants are killed for feet if this spray is used. In the case of genetically modified plants, the plant tolerates a spray from which all other green plants die. It shows what that plant contains, and that is the professional, factual reason why one should stay away from genetically modified organisms and genetically modified plants. It is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that has overall responsibility for agricultural management and shall facilitate the achievement of the objectives of organic farming. There has never been any doubt as to who is responsible for this matter. It is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food at the Council of State. The latest public, documented figures are found in the 2016 Agriculture Directorate's report, and it shows that there is still a decline in the ecological area in Norway. That happens in 2015, and there's now a situation where only 4.8 pst. of the total Norwegian agricultural area is ecological area. Overall, it is at the lower edge of 500000 dekars. So it's going down. The share of organic cereal production is about 1 pst. The proportion of organically sold power feed was 1,8 pst. in 2015, and organic livestock production in 2015 was the following in volume: milk 3,4 pst., meat 1 pst., poultry 0,2 pst., eggs 5,2 pst. In the case of fruit, berries and vegetables, which are occupied by a lot of people, it turns out that there is also the area in decline, but that it is mainly due to the decline in the potato area. The total ecological fruit, berries and vegetable area is only 2,3 pst. of total area. What about the consumption? There's a radical change in people's consumption habits, which I started with. Suffering from the fact that in the grocery trade the organic food was only 1.45 p.m. in 2014, there has been an increase of almost 30 p.m. from 2013 to 2014. - It's huge. According to the Directorate of Agriculture's Report No. 12 from 2016 increased the turnover of organic food and drink by nearly 15 pst. in 2015, to nearly 2 billion. kr, and it is a doubling since 2010. In channels other than the retail trade, it also increased significantly. So what happens is a positive attitude change in Norwegian consumers to organic food and drink, and that's good. That is very good, and here I would like to address a call to the food chain. The daily food chains with the monopolist market that the three have now have a great responsibility to do a job to obtain more organic products for a decent price to consumers, so that one can get a development that is consistent with the Storting's will in that area. There has been a problem so far that there has been more production than what has been traded on the market. This has led to a large proportion of organic production being sold as ordinary products in the market. From 2010, the share of organic products resold from reception and processing plants as organically labelled products has increased for all livestock products. But still it's like that in 2015 that only 54 pst. organically produced milk is sold as organic. For meat the equivalent is 39 pst. and meat means bovine, ovine, lamb and porcine. For poultry, it's 100 pst. – happy – for eggs 81 pst. Now, what's noticing here is that evolution is going in the right direction, but still there's too much of what's produced organically, that's being sold as ordinary goods. The National Audit Office has pointed out five main findings, and the most important one is given in point 1: ‘The development of organic production and consumption is not in accordance with the size of the site.’; It also states that the legislation is too complex and unwieldy, incentives are not enough to increase organic production, and governance has not provided sufficient facilities to increase public consumption of organic food. This applies to the marketing, where the generic marketing, which is in good Norwegian terms the marketing of a product category instead of a particular brand, is not extensive enough to reach the consumer, distributor, wholesale and retail trade. Why are we doing organic farming? There are two main reasons for that. The first is that consumers who want to eat and drink organic agricultural products should have their needs met through national production for the products naturally produced in Norway. The second is that organic farming should be a learning area for Norwegian agriculture as a whole in order to make farming methods more forward-looking by promoting soil fertility and improving animal welfare. Thus, meeting consumer needs and improving the operation of Norwegian agriculture as a whole are very good purposes. Norwegian agriculture is passed through. Norwegian agriculture is a private industry. It is a business, but it has been passed. I do not know any private industries that are as pervasive as Norwegian agriculture. It is governed by laws, regulations and not least by economic instruments. More than the entire net income in Norwegian agriculture comes from the state budget, and I can assure the President that it will not be distributed a krone by the state without any intention behind it. It's passed. Then why are we in that situation, when you have so many tools, that you're so far away from the goal? This fundamental imbalance between the objective and that set out in this national audit report could not be a coincidence. My assessment is that it is the result of a long-standing double communication from the department towards Stortinget. I'm aware that's very much said, but I'm talking about some experience. It's a result of many years of double communication. One has said the formulations, but has done something else. This cannot continue. It can't continue that one in this area, and I'm not going to bring out other areas, say one thing and do another, when one has almost full control over the arena we're talking about. I would therefore like to stress that Storting's goal of 15 pst. the production and consumption of agricultural products shall be organic in 2020, established by the Centre Party and implemented. If it is not established and to be implemented, the Storting must tell you that one goes away from this, and then one tells the consumer that the Norwegian Storing has set the goal for organic farming at a lower and less ambitious level than that established many years ago. This is the reason why the Centre is promoting proposals which have been endorsed by the Socialist Left and the Greens. We ask from what I am now describing, that the government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way in the autumn of 2016. Yes, it's demanding, but it's related to saying so much and doing so little over so long, that now the department has to tighten up. Now one has to tighten up, one can't just sit here and talk without doing things. Then we need a concrete action plan covering generic marketing, knowledge-based information and advice on organic farming for both farmers and consumers, increased public procurement, the need for increased financial incentives, because this does not make sense. It is very demanding to produce organically, and it requires great effort and professional skill, and then a small economic opportunity to live off the work that is so important in the future. Finally, we need to simplify the legislation on organic production and processing, in order to achieve the objectives of the Storting in 2020. I would say that if the proposal I have now presented the main content of does not receive subsidiary support from the parties that can give it the majority, namely the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, then it will be completely unclear whether the Stortinget believes that the objective of organic production and consumption will be achieved by 2020. I expect the National Auditorate to agree with me that there is such a clarification you must have, so that someone knows what is the real opinion of Storting on the matter. Thus we can have an open debate and an open change of words, and people can choose who will take care of this part of the policy in the most forward-looking way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1967	Did the representative Mr Lundteg bring up the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1970	I refer to the proposal of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1975	Then the representative Per Olaf Lundteg mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e1978	First of all, I have to be sorry that I am coming in late for this matter. Not as an excuse, but the explanation is that nature occasionally requires its own after consumption of various agricultural products. This matter concerns the examination by the National Audit Office of ‘the work of the Governing Boards to achieve the objectives of organic farming’. The size has been target for organic farming since 1999, when it was set to target 10 pst. of the total agricultural area should have been converted into organic farming by 2010. In 2005, the target was changed to 15 pst. production and consumption should be organic by 2015. In 2010, the period was extended to 2020. As stated in the Riksrevisions report, organic production in Norway is far below the target and the target will be difficult to achieve by the 2020 deadline. The majority of the Committee has noted that organic legislation is a matter that the Riksrevision points out as a possible reason why organic food production does not have a greater market share. The national audit highlights the complexity and intransigence of the legislation. The organic production, further processing and labelling legislation is part of the EEA Agreement. The current regulation on organic production and labelling of organic agricultural products and foodstuffs of 2005 — the Ecology Regulation — is based on an EU regulation of 1991 and a number of amending and implementing regulations. The majority of the Committee assumes that the main reason why the organic food production target is not met is that the demand for organic food is too low in Norway. Today, parts of organic production must be sold as ordinary products. The majority point to Norwegian-produced food as a whole having a reputation for being safe to eat, probably much because Norwegian agriculture is at a world level in terms of purity in the production process. Among other things, low antibiotics are used in Norwegian livestock production, which helps Norwegian agriculture to be lowly exposed to antibiotic resistance. It can also help explain why conventionally grown food is so good in relation to organic food. In this context, price also plays a crucial role. Organic food is generally more expensive than conventional food. An overall committee points out that the Riksrevision recommends that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food developing an up-to-date, comprehensive strategy to achieve the objectives of organic production and consumption that the party to the agricultural settlement provides incentives that contribute more to increasing organic production takes the initiative to increase the purchase of organic food in the public use generic marketing and knowledge-based information on organic farming in order to increase the consumption of organic food; The majority of the Committee points out that the Council of State agrees with the Riksrevision that a new and comprehensive strategy is needed, and that one will then consider how and what initiatives are to be taken towards other departments and activities to promote organic food in private and organic mass households. The majority have noted that the Council of State believes it is resource-intensive to influence consumers to choose organic food through generic marketing campaigns, and that instead, one should focus on information for consumers in the further work on the subject. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2015	The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation, as explained by the rapporteur, has been to find out whether the Ministry of Agriculture and Food through the use of management and tools has helped to achieve the objectives of organic production and consumption. The Riksrevision has rarely had such a clear answer. Developments are not in line with the objectives, and there is no provision to increase organic production, nor to increase public consumption of organic food. Even the Council of State writes that he agrees that the evolution of organic production and consumption per day is not in line with the objective. The national audit considers it unfortunate that organic production and consumption are still so far from the targets. We in the Labour Party fully agree with that. It's actually striking how far away we are. At the same time, the National Audit Office's investigation reveals that people are more concerned with organic food than just a few years ago. From 2013 to 2014, there was a growth in retail trade of almost 30 pst. At the same time, the volume of land under conversion from conventional to organic farming has declined since 2009. This imbalance can lead to an overall increase in imports of agricultural products that could be produced in Norway, such as meat and cereals. The figures confirm progress. The placing on the market of organic meat was sevenfold in the period from 2006 to 2014, while meat production only increased by 0,6 pst. Organic cereal products and bakery products doubled during the same period, while grain production increased by 0,8 pst. When in addition, it turns out that only 27 pst. of the Norwegian organic meat and half of the milk is labelled as organic, it is necessary to ask, as a non-expert, what went wrong and what should be done. The National Audit Office has made a number of recommendations to the Ministry of Agriculture that will certainly be a good start to this. In short, it is about creating an overall strategy, increasing production and recruitment and preventing non-response through incentives, taking initiatives to increase public procurement of organic food and market organic farming better. The Labour Party, together with the majority of the Committee, shows that the Council of State agrees with the Riksrevision that a new, comprehensive approach is needed, and that one will then consider how and what initiatives are to be taken towards other departments and activities to promote organic food in private and organic mass households. Well, it is so important that the majority believes that this overall strategy is an important measure that should underpin all further work in this area, that the other recommendations of the National Audit Office are further assessed when the strategy is drawn up, and that other relevant actors are involved, so that measures outside the area of the Minister of Agriculture and Food are also included. The Labour Party also believes – like the Left, SV and the Greens – that it is important to ensure sufficient subsidies for conversion to organic meat and milk production in order to meet the demand for these products.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2038	Let me start by referring to the excellent party program of the Christian People's Party. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘Food production in Norway shall be based on an environmentally and resource-friendly use of local resources.’ It goes on to say: ‘Therefore, roughage-based productions must be given priority over those requiring increased imports of feed.’ Environmental and resource-friendly use must be an important step in Norwegian agriculture. The trustee shall be liable. Managing responsibility obliges us to take care of the resource base so that we can transfer the soil and a good basis for food production to future generations as well. For the Christian People's Party, responsible and sustainable environmental and resource management in agriculture is a core value. It's part of the whole ecological mindset that has to shape us even more strongly in the future. Fortunately, we see some signs in time that organic food is in the wind. Many demand for food without sprays and additives. More and more people understand that eco-farming takes care of life in the soil and provides greater biodiversity. We see an increased awareness of what we eat, what we put in artificial additives. This is fundamentally positive. Increased levels of organic food products at consumer tables testify to a higher level of awareness than previously related to health and the environment. Not least, we see an increasing awareness of animal welfare in Norwegian consumers. It's positive. The Christian People's Party is behind the Great Britain's goal of 15 pst. production and consumption shall be organic in 2020. This objective, set in 2010, remains a policy commitment objective. As the National Audit Office's report also shows, it's a long way to go in this area, but there are some positive trends. The consumption of organic food is increasing, and we're on the right track. In its report, the National Audit Office has assessed whether the Ministry of Agriculture and Food through the use of management and tools has made it possible to achieve the objectives of organic production and consumption in a good way. There's several interesting things here. The Court of Auditors considers, inter alia, that: the incentives are not sufficient to increase organic production. According to the report, it contributes to a development that makes it more difficult to prevent apostasy and to recruit new organic farmers. It is also pointed out that the authorities have not provided sufficient facilities to increase the consumption of organic food in the public sector. This is a point we can notice. Countries and municipalities should make greater use of their purchasing power and make demands for the purchase of organic food. It turns out that only a quarter of the public notices in 2014 required organic food to be included in the offer. State, county and municipality must go ahead and use their purchasing power. However, a main task in the future is likely to continue to stimulate and motivate the general consumer to choose organic products. This is largely about availability and price. I note that the National Audit Office proposes that an updated comprehensive strategy be developed to achieve the objectives of organic production and consumption. As a party to the agricultural settlement, the country has an opportunity to put in place incentives that contribute more to increasing organic production. In this way, the State may contribute to ensuring the recruitment and prevention of organic primary producers. This points to the report, and it's worth noting this. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposal that the Christian People's Party is promoting together with the Left, SV and the Greens, where we ask the government to present a clear action plan to increase organic food production in Norway. We need a clear action plan so that we can move faster towards the goal adopted by the Stortinget. If we're going to increase organic production and if we're going to get more people to choose organic products, we think it'll be useful with an up-to-date plan of concrete measures. The National Audit Office's report will be a useful basis for that work. I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2070	Then the representative Hans Fredrik Groevan mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2074	Organic farming is important. The reason why that's important is that it's about taking care of maybe the most important resource we have, the food earth, and treating it in such a way that one can produce food for future generations for centuries and millennia. This is an administrative responsibility that is enormous for those who are engaged in the land, but it is also a administrative responsibility that must be borne by the authorities when they are engaged in agricultural policy. Both the development of organic farming and the contribution to the ecologicalisation of conventional agriculture are very important. It's not about, I think, organic food is healthier than conventional food – it's about which research is disputed, so I don't know – but for Earth it's healthier. And that's what we need to preserve for all future generations. Therefore, Stortinget has set such a goal. It was supposed to be reached. It was not a customs proposal with good intentions for the future, it was serious, as Mr Lundtegen said. The National Audit Office says that when the targets are not met, more instruments need to be put in place – it says in the report. The question then is: what did the government do when they were to present their agricultural settlement after the Riksrevisions report came? Did they put instruments in line with this report? The answer is definitely no, it didn't the government. It wasn't a bet. Some of the subsidies are maintained at the current level, but the pot for developmental products for organic farming – now I am talking about the country's agricultural offer – was to be frozen at the level of the last year. Is it going to be more organic farming? No, no, no. There should be no more funding for information on organic farming than before, and information has been important, we have seen in the National Audit Office's report and heard by several other speakers before me. No more funds shall be allocated to Norwegian Agricultural Advisory, which is very necessary for both the transition to organic production and the more ecologicalisation of conventional agriculture in general. The area premium will be as it was, with the exception of the subsidy on organic vegetable production, where there was a small increase. The subsidies to organic livestock were slightly increased within the framework, but only within an unchanged allocation of 107.2 million. kr in the offer made by the State. Total provision for organic farming for 2017 was proposed at 155.5 million. kr. It is in stark contrast to the recommendations of the National Audit Office to strengthen incentives for organic production both through development measures and production grants. The National Audit Office also had clear recommendations on the need for a significant commitment to these information measures if the objectives of the Storting could be achieved. It is almost unheard of that the department of the degrees thus overhears the control body of this Storting, without clearly stating that one does not want to follow up these objectives, one wants anything else. I'd disagree with that, but it would be a political real thing if you did and said we don't care about this, so we don't. Then we could have a real fight about this and not a shadow boxing like we have now, where everyone says they agree with the goals, but not follow it up in practice. A lot of people also talk about the market being controlling. Yes, now demand is increasing so much that you have to increase imports. When Stortinget grants money and wants to strengthen organic production in Norway, it is about the use of land in Norway and Norwegian resources in Norway, and not about strengthening organic production in other countries. It may not be the worst thing that can happen if you do, but we need this conversion here in Norway. Many measures are needed to improve this. For example, it is necessary to reintroduce and strengthen the conversion premium for organic production and to introduce compensation for the first year of withdrawal. Strengthening the roughage supplement and increasing the feed supplement can be achieved. To improve soil quality and good agronomy and to provide a basis for good grass production, increases can be made. You can have different instruments for organic grain. Volume production can be supported on organic fruit, for example, through own district grants. Technology development can be supported which generates easier soil processing machines and harvesting equipment. Investment funds can be increased through Innovation Norway. Organic production can be earmarked. Interest subsidies can be increased for investments in organic production. You can clean up the legislation on organic production, which is very complicated. Support schemes can be strengthened that will motivate clustering and cooperation in organic farming, as this is important. There are a lot of food entrepreneurs in this industry, and that is something that Norway is very happy about, and that many people like to adorn themselves with. Tourists come, and they want to get something special for Norway, and organic products are high on the course. So here's a lot of good ring effects around it. You can strengthen your advice. You can, for example: provide for the purchase by the State of organic products for its canteens, and for example: shall include 50 pst. of what is served in the canteens of the State. It would provide stable market access for many producers, which they need to be able to dry bet. The subsidy may be increased to end products such as milk, meat and eggs and vegetables. One can increase the focus on generic marketing and information measures, which are suggested here today, for which we hope it will be majority voting. And you can, for example, have a regionalisation of ecological branding and communication strategy against regional markets. There's a lot of things you can do besides what you do today. Now little has been done and the government's offer has been presented in violation of the objectives set by Stortinget, after the Riksrevision's report was presented. There are proposals in the vote today that we are in, but it is quite clear that more measures are needed, and I warn that SV comes with a representative proposal on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2102	Sometimes it's a bit strange to sit in the Grand Britain's Committee on Control and Constitution – at these times maybe not just occasionally, once in a while. It is astonishing when, in the way it does in the report on the follow-up by the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture to the objective of organic farming, the Riksrevision shows that the Ministry openly and completely ignores what is a decision taken by the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, and that this is happening systematically over many years. It's nice for a guy like me, who's relatively new in Norwegian politics. The National Audit Office's report shows that the government's follow-up to the decision to raise 15 p.m. Organic products are very far from being good enough and very far from even active attempts to follow up this goal. This has repeatedly been pointed out by eco-environments and agricultural environments in Norway, with no apparent effect at all. Why should we use organic farming in Norway, and why has the Storting decided that we should do so? After all, it is recognised that agricultural practices without ecological considerations have too much environmental costs and, above all, too much agricultural costs over time. The basic principle in organic farming is to keep agriculture in a long-term balance with the resource base and biodiversity of which any agriculture must necessarily be part. That is the point of promoting organic farming in Norway. In addition, we also have an increasing demand for organic products. We have ended up in a situation where the department is not only total and conscious of the original goal of the Storting, but it is also entirely indifferent to the customer base, the demand and the development of opinion, as many have pointed out. Organic products are now being asked to the degrees that Norwegian production is not keeping up with demand at all, and we are in the strange situation that we have to import organic products – packaged in three layers of plastic – with aeroplanes to satisfy this demand. If the developments that we are seeing today continue in this way, we will experience in a few years' time that what is today's rather balanced system of production and demand, namely organic meat and milk, cannot meet demand. So there are now questions about actually taking on board that the whole principle, the whole goal, of developing organic production is about to fail, and we see very scary signs that this is happening. That means, as the representative Karin Andersen, among others. pointed out that neither in the agricultural settlement has the government responded to the various points made by the National Audit Office, and this is a very ominous signal for the possibility of stabilising on the bones an organic production which is in balance with a market and which contributes to the development of Norwegian agriculture in the right direction. Organic farming in Norway needs a strong boost in production subsidies, compensation in the conversion phase, roughage supplements, developmental products for organic production — a number of long-standing proposals, many of which can be found in the National Audit Office’s report. The possibilities of using an active list of measures are, of course, very large and very close, and it is only a matter of willingness to systematise it and give political priority to it. There's no point in keeping a significantly longer post about this now. There is a proposal for the most natural action by all, namely a systematic action plan to put in place priority instruments, and in order, in order of an objective to actually comply with the decision of the Stortinge and to further develop a basis for organic production in Norway that can grow. The Greens are pleased to be part of this proposal, and we hope that in a vote we can have a majority in favour of this in the UK. It will confirm that the Storting believes what they have previously adopted, and if there is no majority in favour of such a proposal, we hope that the government on its own initiative will make it clear that it is going from promises to concrete action to fulfill its own and the Storing's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2119	The progress party does not share the target of the bulk of the population of 15 pst. the production and consumption of organic food. The forwarding party is of the opinion that the market is to determine the demand for organic agricultural products. What a politically adopted goal of organic food production and consumption of it represents gives a rapid association to the Soviet Union's five-year plans during the Cold War. They were rarely reached, and if they were reached, they would not have been in line with expectations. The farmers like to call themselves entrepreneurs. They also have to comply with the market mechanism, which represents supply and demand. When the figures for the placing on the market of organic agricultural products are not close to policy objectives, there is clearly not a policy in this area with which there is something wrong, but perhaps the objective in itself. In addition to supply and demand, there is a third important factor: price. When recording that organic farming is more labour-intensive and yields lower yields per deer than is the case in conventional agriculture, it has to be said for price fixing. And at a transition from conventional farming to organic food production – how much more agricultural land does it take to just maintain today’s food production? Some of the batches in this room are concerned about the development of Norwegian self-sufficiency in food production. It's tempting to ask what goal is most important for the parties that speak hot for the organic. Is there an increase in food production combined set or 15 pst. Organic food production at any price? Matjorda in Norway is under pressure. The reason for this is that most of the food soil is usually located around cities and agglomerations with growing pain. We need land for public purposes and for housing for an ever-growing population. We also need the area to expand the infrastructure to move from A to B, so the solution is going to be tight and construction at the height to avoid further degradation of the food soil. But one has recorded locally that the parties that would like to see soil protection be grounded are not necessarily the parties that are most dependent on densities. Some people like to draw a scare picture that we can't leave to the market to be involved in determining the development of organic farming, but the market doesn't consist of anyone but you and me, where, daily through our preferences for food in the grocery store, we choose what to end up on our table. Some of us are very concerned about organic when we choose the foods, but the crowd of Norwegians are probably looking at the price before the groceries finally end up in the shopping basket, while we go between the store bars. In Norway, food from conventional agriculture is of high quality and the Progress Party is concerned that conventional food production is not to be slowed down. It seems strange when a person in much of the world is talking about the lack or lack of nutrient content in food and in the worst cases talking about food shortages, while in Norway in 2016 we are arguing about whether the food is organic enough. It seems to me very strange. The Party is committed to providing agriculture with long-term and predictable framework conditions, regardless of whether production is conventional or organic. The Party of Progress does not rule out the possibility of increasing organic farming over time, but the highest rate of growth is likely to occur within conventional agriculture. In this sense, organic food production could be a good addition to conventional food production. The progress party is busy giving the farmer good conditions, so that he or she can put up his or her drive to become profitable and to be able to do what he or she can best: produce high-quality food for your and my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2142	A collection of Norwegian food production is based on and built around the fact that the individual farmer himself produces what he thinks there is demand for in the market. As the representative from the Centerpartiet, Lundtigen, was involved, Norwegian agriculture in general is quite well regulated. It's even so well regulated that several of us have wanted to liberalize large parts of it. But in this regulation, for all conventional production, there is an understanding that production is linked to what is demanded in the market – a market-based approach to how we choose to stimulate production differently. This means that we have market regulation arrangements, which means that we have market balancing arrangements, and it has been widely endorsed in the Storting, especially from the parties that today criticize the fact that the production of organic food is largely linked to what is required. Because that's the basic challenge we're facing: how do we make sure that we produce the food that consumers demand? The National Audit Office points out that a target of 15 pst has not been reached. of Norwegian agricultural production and 15 pst. the consumption shall be organic by 2020. I agree that it's an ambitious goal, I agree with those who have said it before, and it will be imperative to achieve it. At the same time, I think I should be honest with you that I think it is necessary that there is a balance between these two 15 psts. If there is no consumption and demand, we should produce conventionally. If consumption changes and demand rises, production should follow. It has been a matter of Norwegian agricultural policy over time for us to set up such policies. Then we come to the heart of what is the Riksrevision conclusions, and that's the connection between what is requested and what is produced, up to the goal of Storting. I am recording the criticism of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food from various representatives in the Chamber today. At the same time, I feel the need to clarify that it is the government that is always responding to these objectives and goals. This means that this government is responsible for the two years that we have ruled, covering this period. And that means the Center Party is responsible for the other eight years of the period. I react to the fact that the representative Lundtigen says that there are deliberately double communications from the department over time and that the department has to tighten up on the basis of it. Such a criticism of my own government, set from 2005 to 2013, is a long time since I have been listening. At the same time, I am taking seriously the task of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to reach the objectives of the Stortinget. We're going to do that on an ongoing basis. In this year's agricultural agreement concluded between the state and the Norwegian Confederation, but which has not yet been finalized in Stortinget, I think we use some of the economic space we have to re-stimulate organic production. That it's not enough to reach the 15 pst goal already in 2017, I think we can use it, but it's a deliberate political choice to turn the stimulus over to increased production where there are market opportunities. But it's also true that about half of the milk we produce as organic milk is put in place with the conventional and sold as a conventional product. Two thirds of the meat that is produced, we do the same thing for periods, we move it from the organic label, tear the label of the animals after they are slaughtered, and mix it in conventional production – because there is a lack of demand. And then the question that the Storting will also be invited to a debate on: to what extent will the ecological objective be linked to the demand that is in the market? I'm going to discuss this in the Agriculture Communication the government is going to deliver in the next big session, because I think they're relevant, the objections that representatives Lundtigen and representatives of both SV and the Environment Party The Greens are coming with today, namely that there should be a connection between the objectives of the Stortinget set, and what is realistic to achieve, on the one hand, but I think there's a basis for linking it closely to market demand. Organic production is in the wind, said the representative of the Christian People's Party. In any case, more and more demand for new organic production ranges. It makes me think that we need to increase the production of organic food in the future, and I think it's a good idea that we use organic production as a learning venue for conventional agriculture. But it is also obvious that one of the best things we have with Norwegian food production is high trust among consumers when it relates to the way we produce our food. We don't produce food in what some people like to define as an industrialized agriculture in Norway. We produce it based on the resources we have available, and we produce them in a way that makes consumers have a lot of confidence. Norwegian farmers have for generations bred healthy animals rather than medicate the sick. For years and generations, Norwegian farmers have used our land resources to house good feed resources and to help produce products that are highly trusted by consumers. That it is harder to reach new markets based on organic production in Norway than it would be in countries where there is a greater distance between conventional production and organic production, I don't have a basis to establish, but I think it's a basis for problematizing that issue, especially given that there is one of the most positive things we have with Norwegian agricultural production in general. I think the Riksrevision points to many relevant problem settings about how the ecological target has been managed over time. This means that I will come back with a further problematization about this in the coming agricultural message, and I will take seriously the signals that come from the Stortinget that as a consequence of what we are reporting in the agricultural message, it is natural to follow it up with a concrete strategy on how we handle this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2159	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2162	The big thing's objectives are very clear. They go, point 1, on 15 pst. of consumption and items 2, 15 pst. of area and 15 pst. of livestock farming, in total 15 pst. of production. What is my role in the control committee is to check that the decision of the Storting is being followed, and I follow that position no matter who has government responsibility at that time, and that is the culture of the committee. It would have been very difficult to achieve such weak results if one had really meant what was the goals, so here it's not on care. I fully agree that balance is needed, that is the first bid, and that is what I am the strongest spokesman for, but my question is: Will the Council of State now promote the necessary instruments to achieve the Storting's goal of increasing production and consumption by 2020 – one with only five years in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2171	I found the introduction to the representative Lundteg is elucidating. I realize that it is the position of the control committee. But what I reacted to was such a unilateral criticism by the department, when I'm the one that's constitutionally responsible. At the same time, as long as the Storting has a measure of a balanced 15 pst. production and 15 pst. consumption of organic food, it's my job to follow it up. I will do that, and I have done that – also through this year's agricultural agreement, where we are turning resources that were released because production went down, and instead of using them for conventional production, we are strengthening the use of tools to stimulate organic production. There is one concrete example of concrete action to be taken if the Storting joins the proposal submitted in respect of the agricultural agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2178	My question was fairly precise: will the Council of State promote the necessary instruments to achieve the objectives of the Storting? I've defined here based on statistics how it stands. So it's almost as far away from the goal as you can get. It was last adopted in 2010, and now we are in 2016. I fully agree that it is the consumption that is number one, it is the consumption that needs to rise, and then perhaps the Council of State could start with the social responsibility of the big chains. There are three chains, operating within a national market, that have a social responsibility to ensure healthy and safe food. Should not the Council of State then take the initiative to market organic products in a much more offensive way, so that one at least sells everything that has been produced organically, as organic?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2185	I will not take the initiative to order private companies to advertise special product series. I think there's a basis for increasing demand based on financial production in other ways. I will follow that up, as I have now notified directly from Stortinget's spokesman, first through an agricultural report where we challenge the Storting on how to deal with this jointly. Point 2 is to follow it up through a concrete strategy on how we do this for the time being. So the time will show to what extent and how strongly we are going to phase in new tools in organic production. In many cases, intensified efforts in one area mean a reduction in effort on another, and then I'm not sure if the Centre Party will show that reducing efforts on conventional production – to turn it against organic – is necessarily the only right thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2192	I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture and Food says that he takes the goal of 15 pst. ecomat production in serious cases, where the applicant – from the same batch – almost states that ocomat production is a duty. But both agree that there is a market and demand to control the oecomat production. So we live in a country where huge funds are spent on getting consumers to have the consumption behavior that different providers want us to have, and it's quite obvious that no one in the market trusts that consumers can make their own choices, whether it's pants or cars or steaks. Agriculture spends a lot of money to get people to buy meat and food production to get them to buy salmon. Does the Council of State think that precisely the oecomat production is the only field in the Norwegian industry and trade that is going to be completely without the active means of marketing, and then – almost by a wonder – grow by itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2201	The answer to that is open no. For this reason, the state also uses resources per day, for example. generic marketing. We don't get any criticism from the Riksrevision, but he pointed out that it's not strong enough. At the same time, while the Riksrevision has worked on this report, we have had other choices in agriculture as a whole, such as: works to assess the importance of generic marketing. The Hjelmeng selection pointed out, for example: out of generic marketing, we can't read a direct impact on consumers' actual behaviour patterns. It is a matter of having to look at the whole of the agricultural policy as a whole. Then we have to look at what works best, and I'm not really sure that generic marketing is the most targeted measure to get the organic production up. I think it's more targeted to stimulate organic production directly. I have suggested that in this year's agricultural negotiations, and we are some with the Farmers' Group on an agreement that makes it possible for us to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2211	First, the Council of State says that there is a demand for the market to produce, and when asked if there is no need for stronger organic farming market organisations, he says that more should be produced. So I think the council has to decide. I've been an enthusiast for this for many years, but I've had to play Miss Detective many times in stores, and when I find the goods, they're at the back, look a little bad and are twice as expensive as the others. There is no marketing strategy that anyone else would have used, and stronger market organisations are needed by the country because marketing works. It's the way to get one that you should have, on offer, and, with a bit of lure prices too, people's consumption patterns turn around. It's working. Will the State Council increase the organic farming market organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2216	I'm determined, and it's been a logic in my whole reasoning, and it's about where we have overproduction, we haven't used large resources on organic production to stimulate extra overproduction. But where we see that we are losing market shares because we are importing food, we are contributing to a strengthening through the agricultural agreement that is now being dealt with in the Stortinget. So this I think is logical and in line with what I've said before. When it comes to the extent to which different representatives have to approach organic food, I feel that it is a real challenge that the range is not as large as in conventional production. But it's open like this, and I mean, an exaggeration very much when a manufacturer of organic products like something old scarf that's at the back of the shelves. I don't feel that. The Rørosmeieriet gains market share with organic products, among others. because it's a very good product.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2223	That's it, and now the government council turns on what I'm saying, and tries to say something other than what I said. What I have mentioned is that there is a need to strengthen marketing, so that we can afford to market these products in a delicious and accessible way to consumers. That's what it's got to do. That's what everybody else does. If we have organic products that are not sold, it's a thought to put in some market organizations just to sell them, because they're good. The failure of the market organizations and not the fact that the public will actually have these products if they first receive them. It turns out that if the goods are in front, they look like the others, and they don't have much higher price, people will choose them. Then the question is, what do we do to break the limit of many of the goods that are not well known to many consumers today? I'm pretty sure consumers want them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2228	I think consumers well what they think is useful almost every time they're in the store. That means that consumers do, we can see from the shopping pattern. It shows that we produce more organically than what we actually translated. It's a challenge, but it's a challenge first and foremost because we have a high-reliance agriculture, and we have a small range of products on some organic production, and part of the organic consumption we have is based on imported products. It offers less market potential for Norwegian production. But I think that when we have own slaughterhouses, farm owners, when we have own dairies, farm owners, who pay for these organic products, there is a much stronger incentive to get those products back out to consumers than I can solve with generic marketing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2233	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2236	By reference to the previous line change, I would say that some of the replicators require both a completely different production system than what we have, and not least a different political system than what we have, to implement one, let's say, a theoretical objective. Then I would like to take the opportunity to advertise a little for an innocent little section of the vote, because there has been a majority of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party, which ‘believes that the main reason why the organic food production target is not met is that the demand for organic food is too low’. Yes, that's the truth. So we have a production system that makes it the customers who decide what's going on in the shelves. If over-subsidisation, prohibition or other intervention is taken, production is just becoming inefficient. Then you can talk to them in the grocery store who have to throw organic food at the closing time because it doesn't have sustainability qualities in full monn. You can think about what's of resource games in it, and of course also that something organic food is more expensive to drive than other food, which is also not sustainable. I notice that in the debate there has never been such a small slop of paternalism. You talk about the people. But there are no consumers here who have complained that they have not received – perhaps with the exception of the representative Andersen – who thought that the goods were on the shelves any longer. As consumers, however, there is nothing to prevent us from putting together our menu and shopping cart as we wish. The criticism that some have addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture is, in fact, a criticism of the Norwegian people that they do not realize their own best. The representative, Karin Andersen, also pointed out in his statement that consumers are not convinced that organic food gives them the quality, or quality, of which she was in, and we can add it to the price that they are willing to pay, so that the argument goes on that a high proportion of conventional agricultural production would not be sustainable. Yes, but then we get to attack it, and I expect that in particular the Center Party will put in a good word for conventional agricultural production, that it is sustainable. We still hear that conventional Norwegian food is in the top class in terms of quality, and that may also be part of the explanation, namely that it is doing well precisely because it is reassuring to our consumers. If anyone is to be criticized in this hall, it might be the Storting itself, to have unrealistic goals. How is the Riksrevision going to revise as theoretical objectives as these percentage targets really are? I think you also get a sense that you do not know exactly how to achieve these objectives, when you see the measures recommended. There are four indents, the first of which is an ‘updated overall strategy’, which is really novelty because it would be nice if someone had any ideas, but at least we don't have them. And then it's "farmed". Yeah, well, it's the same thing that you can probably get some motivation, you can pay some more to put together the production, but it's not sustainable for consumers' choices either. So the third thing is, when the country itself is a buyer, is going to use "organic food". Yeah, that's where the state puts aside the demand of other individuals, if they had had the election themselves. They can, of course, try out people's choices, and then they can say that in the canteens of the state it is only to be eaten politically properly. The last point is ‘generic marketing’, from those batches that usually negate marketing as something empty, devoid of content, and that give false values of life. Clearly, the real values of life have been identified here, which means that the population can gradually be raised in the right spirit, and live up to the 15th century. I think it is shameful – or it may be a bit strong, it may be a little sad – that the basic premise, the fundamental criticism here, which cannot in any way be directed at the Ministry of Agriculture or the agricultural authorities, is a disappointment that consumers, those who use the power of demand every day, do not live up to the requirements of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2254	I can assure the representative Tetzschner that the Centre Party is behind both the production system we have in Norway and the political system. We're hot trailers of it, and we want to use it to achieve the goals that Storting sets. No one has said that the objectives set by the Stortinget in this area cannot be achieved with the system we have, both productively and politically. No one has said that conventional food is good. What we're discussing now is organic food. Then the representative Tetzschner says that it is, among other things, I stand for it is a disappointment at the consumers. No, that's not it. I would like to ask the basic question that the Progress Party explained: Share the party's right goal of 15 pst. at all levels, consumption and production of organic food? Yeah, or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2261	Yes, now it is not that I feel bound by that decision. I don't think – unlike the representative Lundtigen – it's a decision that can be realised within the means we're willing to use in a consumer-driven market economy where it's the customers who decide what comes in the shelves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2266	I would like to thank you for your answer. It was very clarifying. What's interesting then is that the representative Tetzschner sits on the control committee, deals with the Riksrevision's report and does not have the power to write down a single word of what the representative now says, in the setting. He can't get it out. If you read the setting, you can get the impression that the game on the right is part of the goals. Isn't it driving people and systems behind the light with the huge costs that it involves, when you don't mean anything with it that gives the impression that you're for?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2273	We have formulated the following on page 7 of the setting, first column, together with other batches correctly, that we ‘believe that the main reason why the organic food production target is not met is the demand for organic food’. [[...]] So that's the sum of consumer choices. I am fully aware of this – if you also consider that there is in essence an explanation here that deludes some of the instruments, in fact the vast majority of whom the representative Lundtigen has advocated. That's also why we're not involved in any of the minority proposals, especially where the Center Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2279	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2282	I'm very pleased with the discussion that is developing here, because now we get to clarify what the individual parties actually stand for. We have been made clear that the Progress Party is not in favour of the 15 p.m. target, and I cannot understand the representative Tetzschner other than that he does not support it on behalf of the Right. Then it is referred to the consumer. We're talking here about food and drink within import protection, where those who are actors are essentially three major chains. Those chains have a power that is incredibly great in relation to the consumer's choice. I will take one example of how the power of the chains can be used in a positive and – I would say – exemplary way. What chain and what matter do I think of? I think about the Norway Group, I think about chicken, I think about the fact that until last, chicken was produced in Norway with a substance called narasin, which is documented to be an antibiotic. So the Norway Group took social responsibility and said they wanted to get away from selling chicken produced using an antibiotic. The Norway Group has the power to obtain large results. Consumers have become aware of what we are talking about here, the producers have put themselves in the harness and have changed their way of production. To the benefit of both parties, results say that now the production of chicken meat in Norway is virtually no longer based on this narasin. It's really taking social responsibility from a chain that has a significant power. Otherwise I will answer an important question from the representative Holthe. He said that I spoke here hotly for the ecological and did not talk about the conventional and the degree of maritime supply. That's absolutely correct. I would like to make it clear that if the objective of organic farming and production is contrary to the degree of maritime supply, the most important is the degree of maritime supply, because the degree of supply of water says on a calorie basis the ability of Norway to supply its own country's inhabitants with food produced in Norway. The basis for the food produced in Norway is plant production, and plant production is the result of the area used, the land and the land area, and the crop that one picks on each unit of area. It is obvious that in an organic production mode, where one does not use fertilizers, i.e. does not supply nitrogen based on a chemical process and phosphorus and potassium based on a similar chemical process, one must be very competent to maintain the level of yield only by green manure or by manure. So the clear answer to the representative Holthe is that it's the maritime supply level that's the most important thing. This means that we have to increase the number of areas in operation, and we have to increase the yields. That's what's the big challenge. Today, however, the matter is how the Committee on Control and the Storting is dealing with the objectives that have been adopted. If one believes that these goals are to be abandoned, do so. If one believes that these objectives should not be abandoned, a goal will be achieved. I have here pointed out that one now has only five years to achieve the goals. It's very, very demanding. And I have said that the first thing is to get the consumption up, to get a suck in the market and thus get a ‘drive’ in the whole situation, so that the production should support what is consumed – quite clearly. The representative, Karin Andersen, was concerned that organic farming is healthier for the soil. I agree with that, in the sense that in organic farming it is not allowed to use spraying agents. Spraying agents kill weeds, kill fungi, kill lice, and affect the entire bacterial life in the earth. So Karin Andersen, in my opinion, has coverage for it. But I want to say that organic farming also produces products that are healthier for the consumer. Anyone who knows how to produce knows that part of what a person is producing will be included in the product – there are small residual concentrations that go further in the product. In particular, there are innumerable examples of this in fruit, berries and vegetables, where one has demanding production methods to deal with all the mischief that attacks these crops. Not least, it is the most important thing in organic farming to remove the spraying agents, and it also affects the production of conventional agriculture. I just want to end by saying that the Storting has set a goal. I see that in this hall, there's still a majority of those goals, because there's only two parties that have said that they're going to go away from the 15 pst goal. It is the Advance Party and – as I interpret it – the Right. There is therefore a majority behind the 15 pst targets. Then it is our task to implement them within 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. It's five years. It's very demanding to get to it. Those who oppose the implementation of the objectives must say so. Then there's a tidy discussion here in Stortinget and people can relate to a word being a word.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2301	The next speaker is Tom E.B. Holthe, the rapporteur on the matter. He has had the word twice before and gets the word for an article of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2304	I'll be brief. What made me take the floor was the representative Hansson who said that the Progress Party through me thought that organic farming was a ‘customs’. ‘Customs’ is an expression I have not used and will never use in organic farming. If the representative had followed me in my post, he would have realized that the Progress Party is for the diversity of agriculture, also through the organic. Even I come from a state with a lot of niche production, and we appreciate it very much. Not least, as a cook specialist, I can and wish to express my great appreciation for the quality that we are today receiving from our farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2309	There are at least double high-level communications here today, from multiple batches. It shows that there is a need to clarify whether the Stortinget is now in line with the Stortinget objective, and as the Riksrevision has pointed out, it has not been followed up in practical policy. It's a responsibility that different state councils have to assume, and that the majority of people have to take on to follow it up if we still believe it. And that's what SV means we have to. There are good reasons to want that, because we just have to take care of the food soil in the future so that it can be alive and healthy for generations. The reason why I don't mention health in my post – or claim it – is not that I disagree with what Lundtigen says, namely that in particular these plant protection residues that are left, probably eventually will accumulate in the food chain and also end up in people, and that's not a good thing. I think we'll realize that later on, but it's hard to prove, sail if there's any reports coming up this past week that both believe to establish this, that there's better health, and also mention all of these fears that organic production will be so inefficient that you won't be able to produce enough food that way. Well, you can, but then you also have to make sure that all the agricultural land is put into use, and that they are used in such a way that they can produce healthy and long. So this debate about marketing is strange. Parties that are very market-oriented clearly believe that marketing in this particular area is of no importance, for consumers choose freely here. I don't think that neither chains nor producers spend millions and billions of dollars on marketing when it doesn't work. Obviously, it works when you get taste samples, when you're told on the TV and in the newspapers and massively everywhere you go: eat this, it's healthy, it's good, the senses eat it, this is the teacher, the new one, you have to taste this. Of course this works. Of course, lure prices work, it turns out. Then you become familiar with products, that's why you use marketing. Because organic production is important for fundamental reasons, it is important to get production up, and then it is important that people have the opportunity to become acquainted with the products. It doesn't matter. Those who produce conventional, and those who produce very unhealthy things that we step into, both late and early, spend a lot of money on marketing. The chains also have power over how goods are placed in the store. There's no doubt that they have it. They have agreements about what's ahead of you, what's close to you. Where do customers most choose goods, where do you pick something when you just go by? Yeah, that's a lot of studies of, and this does all the shops. They know where they place the goods so they can sell them as much as they can. Then we want to get production up, and in order for consumers to actually see and have the opportunity to choose this, we have to do a lot more with marketing it, because everyone else is marketing their products so intensely and violently. So it becomes a little virginal, I think, when you say that you should not market this at all. Everything that is consumption can be influenced. I'm not saying that consumers are unconscious or don't know what they're doing. No, they know what they're doing, but consumers are being influenced. I also let myself be influenced by marketing, I admit that I do it, because you're a human being and it works. I hope now that we get a proper clarification from the government parties as to whether they are behind this goal for organic farming. That's what we need. We know that we have a government that doesn't have a majority in the Storting behind us, and that sometimes and quite often they're asked to do something they're against. It's a little slow and bad, but it's at least a good thing to have it quite honestly on the table when the situation is like that, because then the large number of people obviously have to act in a much more cash and much more actionable and direct way to get to what is otherwise agreed with the government's request decision. It can be done when we have a government that agrees with the objectives. Of course, if you have a government that disagrees with the objectives, proposals have to be much more ‘two the points’ and quite clear in their wording.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2328	It's a little amazing to follow the debate. Karin Andersen almost seems to be a mortal sin that is influenced by marketing. I think we're all going to be, but there's a very big difference between what the consumer chooses and what he wants to do with marketing so that the consumer chooses something completely different. That was Michael Tetzschner, among others. talked about, that it was the consumer's choice, and I'll come back to that a little bit. But it was the goals that have been adopted, and the actual time perspective, that the Riksrevision has looked at, that was interesting. Thus, this concerns the period 2005–2014. Then there were eight years of red-green government and one year of bourgeois government. Then you raise the tab very high because you haven't reached any goals. Then I think the real thing would have been if Lundtägen and Andersen had simply raised a debate in the Storting around the question: Is there realism in the goals that the Storing has adopted? There I think Michael Tetzschner had some very good points. We have conflicting decisions on most of this, and I'm going to come back to that a little bit. I also think it's fundamental error to believe that it's the power of the chains that's absolutely crucial here. I think the chains are doing what they see consumers are interested in. The point is: the consumer does not choose organically. There are many good reasons for this, because Norwegian agriculture is, in fact, the purest agriculture in the world already, and we should talk it over. Had the consumer seen the real costs behind organic, he would probably have chosen it even less. So a little bit about the farmer's choices: Read today's edition of the Nation. It says it's an organic farmer who's disappointed with the farming, but it also says that conventional agriculture produces 800 kg of grain per deer, while organic farming yields 300 kg per deer. First of all, it's obvious what the farmer chooses: he operates conventionally, and so do those who want to run somewhat professionally. But how are we going to achieve the Storting's goal of increasing food production if everyone's going to change that? I can't do that. Then we're sitting with the Natural Diversity Act, which we discussed last week, where we're not going to cultivate ants. It is a dream to believe that the areas left unused in Norway today can fill such a production gap: from 800 kg per measure to 300 kg per measure. Then we have to start a massive cultivation of ants, and then we go straight into the climate trap, because that's what the Natural Diversity Act says: we're not going to cultivate any particular ants, because it's totally destroying the climate. We will then have a huge climate impact on Norwegian agriculture. I think it's time we took a real discussion about the goal itself. And I think the red-green could be real enough to say, we didn't achieve any of the goals. It was our policy that led to that we did not achieve any objectives. As stated above, this survey covers the period 2005–2014. Then you have to assume responsibility and not push it over to a new Minister of Agriculture from a civil government. So we're going to have a discussion about the questions, are we earned with this goal? Have we not served to speak up conventional Norwegian agriculture and market it as the world's purest already? And if there are any sprays or the kind of things that track people after it's been used, we know that it's being opened out pretty quickly by the control systems we already have. I just wanted to take the word to elaborate on this a little bit. I think it should be taken seriously that the Storting has set objectives and limits for agriculture in a number of areas that make it impossible to achieve all the objectives, and we should perhaps have a proper debate on that. I personally believe that the ecological objective is one of those that we might be able to give up the easiest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2345	The government uses the 15 p.m. target for its policy design, so those who have questions related to it today can assume that it is the position of the government. If he was to change or the government would find it right to challenge the Storting whether this goal is possible to achieve, we will come back to Stortinget with it. I have announced that I will mention the organic target in the agricultural message, which comes later this year, and that I will follow up the plurality in Stortinget today with a strategy to achieve the ecological goals that Stortinget has agreed to. But we cannot go from this debate and let it be left to the impression that traditional conventional agricultural production in Norway is not pure, does not promote food security and does not give consumers security when they choose Norwegian agricultural products. Norwegian food production is among the purest in the world. We use at least medicine by everyone. We work systematically to avoid developing a situation where agricultural production provides the basis for having antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which will later be a public health challenge. Norwegian consumers must be able to feel very safe when they are well aware of conventional Norwegian agricultural products, that they are safe to feed. Stortinget has been working with it for many years to get it done, this government has been working with it systematically, and it doesn't least have farmers working with it for generations to get to. We cannot have it hanging on this debate that that should not be the case. No one is against marketing, but we are because the market players take the main job of marketing their own product, not that the state takes responsibility for marketing the single product produced by Norwegian agriculture. What I mean is a sensible and healthy sharing of responsibilities, which we use in a lot of other questions, and which I am pleased that the majority in the Stortinget in an annotated form also joins today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2354	There is one element in this debate that I feel the need to take the floor on, and that is the question of why this criticism has not come, why it has not come before, and why it has not come against the red-green government, as the representative Gunnar Gundersen said. This has also been partly carried out by others. Let me just say that the whole Stortinget, both the representative of Gundersen and others, is going to trust completely that this criticism would have looked exactly the same from the Labour Party's side if we had received this report for consideration at an earlier time. This is not a party political question. This is a question of how we organise agriculture in order to achieve the Biggest objective. That's what the Control and Constitutional Committee's mission is and nothing but that, really. I cannot see that there is anyone in this debate who has disputed that what is in the Riksrevision report is correct. The council has said it's right. Then we're very far from the goal, and that's what we're pointing out. So it becomes a question: how are you going to achieve this goal in the extension of this? It is a discussion that is really on the edge of the task of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, because it is an agricultural policy debate. I'm not going to go into it, but I felt like the committee leader that I wanted to make this mark so that this isn't going to be hanging either. Then I have one more element. The Council of State here says that it should not be left hanging that Norwegian conventional agriculture is not good. I have not heard anyone say that in this debate. There is no reason to say that either – on the contrary, it is very good – but it is the dimension of the difference between the objective of organic production and the fact that we are so far away, which is the task of the Control and Constitutional Committee. At least in this debate, we have emphatically stressed that this is the case. I hear what the Council of State says, but it will be up to him, the now responsible government and the Storting as such to ensure that the instruments are in place, so that we may reach that goal. Otherwise, we'll have to adjust it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2367	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2370	I agree with the chairman of the committee who said, while I am among the foremost people who speak the conventional agricultural case here in the Chamber, a conventional non-antibiotic agriculture in the feed – not so many are involved – a conventional agriculture that systematically combats multi-resistant bacteria, MRSA, within the pig team. We have a lot of important things. I experience a unique consumption growth for natural food, organic food – and that's great. It must be promoted further, because it also provides good public health. There is a lot in the Gundersen representative who said about organic cereal cultivation versus conventional cereal cultivation. It just shows that organic farming is more demanding. It requires a better soil culture, it requires a better plant culture, it imposes greater quality requirements and competence requirements on the user, and it is something that everyone speaks well in many contexts. What's left here is that the right party, as far as I understand it, doesn't support the 15 pst goal, while the government does it because the supporting parties stand for it. In this way, at least something good has come out of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2381	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2395	The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is again presenting a position on the development and use of digital services in public life and in public services. So this time it's about the development and use in our municipalities. The setting is unanimous. The Committee's view on digitisation, position and use in the public sector has been unanimous in all the positions we have delivered by the Control and Constitutional Committee. The Committee has addressed several serious issues relating to key areas of Norwegian society. The last time we were treated was the digitization in Nav, and then the digitization within our health companies. The latter led to a unanimous decision by the Stortinget that the Council of State should return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner on the further development of the health sector. The government has responded to this decision by submitting the notification, which is called the Digital Agenda for Norway, and I think that is good. However, there has been no lack of communications and proper objectives, but in all these cases dealt with by the Control and Constitutional Committee, there is one main issue that remains, and there is a lack of coordination and overall governance. I say this again: there is a lack of coordination and overall governance that is what is left in the attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee in this important area of society. It is also the main theme of the issue that Stortinget is dealing with today, i.e. the digitisation in the municipalities. Here too, like the matter we have just dealt with, the goal and decision of the Storting is quite clear. That's what it says. «total and complete public digital services for residents and businesses». That's the goal that the Storting has set, also for today's discussion. In this area, the municipalities have not fulfilled this obligation either. The size has joined several times and pointed out that the local government sector has a separate responsibility towards its citizens in order to solve basic tasks, provide services, drive social development, exercise powers and be a local political institution. The fact that citizens and businesses have to be able to carry out their duties in the public sector in an easy way, regardless of whether it is the State, the county or the municipality responsible for the service, is part of this work. Digitization is a prerequisite for this in our time. I think everyone here agrees with what I have just said. It is, of course, discouraging that the work on digitisation in the municipalities has not come any further than we can read in the Riksrevision reports. The national audit studies show that municipalities have been short-lived, that there are considerable differences between municipalities and that the differences between large and small municipalities are striking. The Municipal People’s Council implies that each municipality has a separate responsibility for the renewal, conversion and digitisation of its own municipality, but national targets for equivalent services and the efficient and coordinated use of public resources are equally important. The state is also entrusted with a significant responsibility for giving municipalities the opportunity to digitise. The National Audit Office considers that the measures undertaken by the State are not sufficient to achieve the objective of comprehensive digital public services for citizens and businesses, and that there is a need for stronger nationally coordinated efforts to improve the progress of municipal digitisation. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation assume a strong national responsibility for coordinating ICT policies in the public sector, so that public digital services can be seen as a whole for citizens and businesses. They propose more use of financial incentives, motivating the coordination of departments and directorates, facilitating coordination between the State and local authorities, and increasing the use of national common components and ICT standards by the municipality in order to streamline the digitisation of municipal services. The Committee agrees. I am pleased that the Committee is united in this matter, and that the Committee stresses the importance of taking seriously the findings of the National Audit Office. We believe it is serious that the Storting's objective of comprehensive and complete public digital services to the population and the business community is not met. It creates inequality and increased differences for both the population and the business community when online services are not a common good in all the municipalities of the country. Better interaction between the state and the municipality is absolutely necessary, and we stress the responsibility of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation. It goes without saying that good online solutions between the municipality and the population will contribute both to shorter processing times and to better resource use. I think most people appreciate being able to process a construction case online rather than visiting public offices. Construction work is also a good example in another respect. The Building Quality Directorate has developed a solution for building applications that have been used by many municipalities, and in this way has actually done what many municipalities demand, got to a greater degree of state involvement and responsibility, because it goes without saying that the challenges ahead, and already today, are too great for the municipalities to be able to solve them alone. It points to one side that I, for my part, think is striking in many things we are dealing with in Stortinget – the inability to learn from others. This applies to both the State and the municipality. It's in many ways a mystery that you don't go out and see what others have done when new solutions are to be introduced. When digital solutions are missing, there are several very unfortunate consequences. Data across subject areas and subject systems are not working. Inhabitants and businesses need to re-enter the same information for each of the municipal services. This leads to an improper offer, and it is not least to waste time and resources on people, businesses and municipalities. It is worrying when many municipalities say that they do not have the skills to digitise their services. Not least, it is worrying that municipalities do not have sufficient ordering skills. The municipalities can handle, inter alia: not to acquire ICT systems or data solutions in line with the local authority’s own needs. As I just said, there is little coordination and standardisation of the solutions that need to be addressed. It is essential to ensure that systems communicate with existing solutions and that data flows and interactions between those systems are ensured. Many municipalities say that the cost of digitising municipal services is too high for the municipality to prioritise it, and that the work is also lacking in the management of the municipality. It may not be so strange all the time that costs are on the municipalities, while the profits are on the community level. A Joint Committee will therefore stress that the findings need to be taken seriously and corrected, and that municipalities need to cooperate more closely and share experience and technological solutions. We also show that the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation has the overall responsibility for coordinating ICT policy, and we therefore agree that there is a need for stronger nationally coordinated efforts to improve the progress of local authorities in digitising municipal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2435	Public sector digitisation shall enhance the quality and efficiency of public service activities. This is confirmed in several large-scale messages, and Stortinget has joined the goal of a digital first choice for residents and businesses, cf. Inner. 370 S for 2012–2013. This implies that online services are the general rule for administrative communication with citizens and businesses. It is discouraging to read the main findings of the National Audit Office. Municipalities have little digitised their services. Work on digitisation of municipal services has significant obstacles. The role of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation is not sufficiently adapted to the objectives and obstacles in this area. National common components have not been adequately facilitated for use in municipalities and actions undertaken are not sufficient to achieve the objectives of comprehensive and complete digital services. The digitisation of society has been going on for quite many years, and in some areas of society, digitisation has come a long way, and in several areas, one has already reaped good results from the work that has been done both in terms of more efficient operation and in terms of simplification for citizens and businesses. However, citizens and businesses are offered a digital first choice for only 27 pst. of the municipal services in three key service areas. The whole 14 pst. the municipalities do not have a digital first choice for any of the 19 services surveyed. That's about. 60 municipalities that cannot offer this. For most services surveyed, less than half of the municipalities transmit the information received electronically to different internal disciplines. This shows that the digital maturity of municipal services is consistently low. I believe that it is critical that the municipalities have today come no further than what has been reported in terms of achieving the objectives that online services should be the general rule for the administration's communication with citizens and businesses. I fully understand that digitisation is complicated to achieve when interoperability between many internal systems in a municipality is to be established, interoperability is established across municipalities, which once again have other systems, and not least make themselves useful and interact with large state systems. I can confirm that a municipality has many different systems. With my own experience as a consultant in two different municipalities, I have probably been given something about how fragmented the work on sewing together the ICT sector has been, and how fragmented this work is still, according to the National Audit Office's survey. According to the Riksrevision, many municipalities stress that the costs of digitising municipal services are too high for the municipalities to prioritize it, and if this work is not sufficiently anchored in management, it tends to stop, with a sluggish system as a result. When municipalities are not in direct contact with national registers, but instead make local copies such as shadow registers, the quality of the work will not be good enough, as shadow registers are not updated often enough. Unfortunately, this has been a well-known issue for many years. The Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, has contributed to the digitisation of the public sector, but it is the central government that is the main target group of diffi. Divi is therefore limited in its ability to address cross-governmental and municipal issues. Many municipalities lack knowledge of the importance of ICT standards and architecture principles for the effective digitisation of municipal services. Since the national architecture principles are recommended only for the municipal sector, while they are mandatory for the State, the challenge is reinforced in order to achieve a good interaction between the municipal level and the state level. When a large majority of municipalities, according to the report of the Riksrevision, believe that national authorities should commit municipalities more in digitisation work, it is also close to seeing that common architecture principles for the state and municipal sectors are necessary. A stronger initiative must be taken for the development of solutions that can be used across municipal borders and between municipalities and county and state agencies. Finally, I would like to express a great understanding of the situation of the municipalities. Both technically and economically, the digitisation of municipal services is difficult and complicated. The State must provide both financial resources and competence to enable municipalities to better meet the findings of the National Audit Office’s report. In addition, it should be necessary that the principles of architecture, which are mandatory for State activities, are also made compulsory and applicable to municipalities. Otherwise, I am afraid that we will continue to experience so great technical challenges that the goal of digitisation of municipal services cannot be achieved in a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2454	More and more services can be provided over the network in both postal, banking, trade in goods and not least in public reporting and services. It should also be possible for those who are not computer users for different reasons to have the necessary services carried out in a traditional manner. The public has a special responsibility to organise its services for everyone. However, there is no doubt that online services should be the general rule for administrative communication with citizens and businesses. The municipal sector is a significant provider of public services and therefore the digitisation of municipal services is crucial to achieving this objective. Today, the digitisation of public services is too small and, in particular, at the municipal level, even the extent to which they wish to invest in various digitisation projects is largely up to the municipality. The Christian People's Party wants the state and municipalities to work together to a greater extent than today to create accessible and user-friendly electronic solutions for the inhabitants. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the State should assume responsibility for developing a common digital platform that can be offered to the municipalities, so that they can choose to use it if they want it. Of course, municipalities themselves have to choose which services they want to offer digitally to their citizens. As the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee have explained, the vote is unanimous. The Committee shall be consulted on all comments on the matter. It shows that there is a broad cross-political consensus on the objectives here. The Christian People's Party endorses the criticism that is being voiced – a criticism based on the Riksrevision's findings that the aim of the Stortinge is not being achieved for citizens and businesses in general and in full public digital services. The Committee is of the opinion that non-compliance with the objective is critical. And why is this critical? Indeed, inequalities and increased differences are created for both the population and the business community when online services are not a common good in all the municipalities of the country. This points out to the committee, and I suppose the Council of State will comment on this in its statement. I believe a key word in this case is ‘order competence’, namely a lack of such competence. We see this again in several cases, including at state level and in state institutions. We remember the ICT scandal in the Nav case that the Stortinge had to deal with a year ago, where this was an important point. In the National Audit Office's report on the digitisation of municipal services, we see that many municipalities do not have sufficient competence to digitise their services. The survey of municipalities shows that the administrative management of only four out of ten municipalities, 44 p.m., believes that they have sufficient ordering skills to acquire ICT systems in line with the needs of the municipality. This means that management in more than half of Norwegian municipalities either does not believe that they have or are unsure whether they have sufficient ordering competence to acquire the correct and relevant ICT systems. We also see that among the small and medium-sized municipalities are 39 and 44 pst, respectively. agree, in whole or in part, that they have sufficient ordering competence. In comparison, the management experience in 56 p.m. of the large municipalities to have sufficient ordering skills. Moreover, profit implementation is not systematically pursued in most municipalities. Thus, much of digitisation is carried out without making good use of the opportunities for efficiency and resource saving. Lack of security about ICT and lack of knowledge about what is needed by ICT solutions can therefore lead to a lower level of provision for citizens. That is why I think the Riksrevision is about something very important when in the report they recommend the state to motivate the municipal sector to cooperate. Stronger cooperation is needed to develop skills and exchange experiences and technical solutions to enable municipalities to develop and benefit from digital services. Nor is it the case that every municipality itself has to invent the digital powder every single time. Often, finished standard solutions, shelf goods, can be used, and closer ICT cooperation between municipalities and countries, and not least between municipalities, can contribute to efficiency and better services. At the same time, I would like to stress the unanimous comment of the Committee expressing a certain understanding of the situation of the municipalities. Digitisation of municipal services is complicated and time consuming. That is why the Christian People's Party also believes that the state must provide both financial resources and – not least – competence. State aid is important in order to enable municipalities to better manage their tasks for the benefit of their citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2480	I have read the Committee's position with great interest, and I can see that the government's policy seems to be in line with the Committee's comments. Many of the conditions pointed to by the Riksrevision were already known to the Ministry, and work was under way before the audit started, to find possible measures. The Digital Agenda Scoreboard has a broad coverage of interaction between municipalities and countries, with a description of concrete actions. For tasks across the State and municipal sectors, State enterprises should take greater responsibility for the development of comprehensive digital solutions that can also be used by the local government sector. It is such that, where appropriate and useful, citizens have little to do with levels of government; they relate to services; they should also be coordinated. Therefore, Divi is now commissioned to develop an overview of planned and ongoing digitisation initiatives in the State sector affecting the local government sector, including an overview of potential gains and plans to realise them. This provides the basis for a better and more structured dialogue between the State and the municipality. Such an overview also facilitates the identification of the need to establish common solutions that can meet equal needs across administrative levels. Diffi, together with the KS, shall find an appropriate framework for assessing the different measures against each other. Based on these recordings, Diffi can advise the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation on the need for priorities between the different measures in the event of a conflict of objectives or resources between sectors. Local authorities are best aware of their challenges and must be involved when state enterprises have digitisation projects involving the municipal sector. We draw up an overview of key requirements and recommendations for digitisation in the municipal sector. We also stress that the responsibility for ICT maturity and progress in the municipalities is the municipality's own responsibility. Divis tools and guidance are also available to municipalities. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has for several years provided financial support for the work of the KS on digitisation. The Ministry has committed up to 10 million KS. SEK in 2016 for the further development of ICT in the municipal sector. The common components are available for use by municipalities. A cooperation agreement has been concluded between the KS and Brønnøsund registers on Altinn, and a notice in the Folkeregister is free of charge for the municipalities. The capacity and competence of ICT is a challenge for many municipalities, as it has also emerged in this debate, and it is especially the small municipalities that are struggling in this area, so I would like to stress that there will be huge gains in having larger municipalities. I would like to stress that I agree with the representative and the committee leader, Martin Kolberg, that there is a need for better coordination and interaction between the state and the municipality. It is about the availability and increased availability of common components. But it is also about services such as the example of the representative Kolberg drew up on DiBK's new solution – DiBK is a directorate of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation – where DiBK has developed the solution that is available to the municipality. I can also draw up other examples, such as the Husbank, which has now digitised both housing support and start-up loans, where the benefit comes in the municipalities – and similarly that the municipalities now have to move to a secure digital mailbox, so that the inhabitants can get a secure digital mailbox used by both state and local authorities. And we see that several municipal offices are now on their way over. But I would like to stress that this is not just about interaction and coordination. It is also about the need for better cost control, and it is about greater profit realization when projects are implemented. I have said on several occasions that the time of the major digital projects must be over. We see that there's a greater probability of cost increases and cracks in time. Small and medium-sized projects have the greatest benefits. We also need to make far greater use of gains when projects are realised. We have now set up a Digitalisation Council in Divi, which has expertise from both the private, state and municipal sectors, and provides advice on projects of up to 750 million. kr. This is an important area, which means a lot to our citizens. When we digitise the public sector, it is not to meet public sector needs, but it is to create a simpler everyday life for citizens, businesses and non-governmental organisations. Then it is important that we strengthen strategic ICT competence at different levels, and therefore we have already launched a programme for government leaders to develop increased strategic ICT competence, so that this becomes part of the leadership competence of the state sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2510	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2525	In contrast to the matter we have just dealt with, it is not a unanimous position that is now being presented. It's a position where the majority of the committee represents the minority in the Storting. What we are facing today is that a majority in the UK wants to change the law in such a way that there is now a general majority in the local government that is needed to determine whether there should be two-day elections in municipal elections and decision-making in the respective municipalities. I believe that those who represent the majority of the Storting will justify their views in the continuation, but it is clear from the vote on their behalf that they believe that it is in principle right that the provision whether there should be two-day elections or one-day elections should follow the normal procedure for decisions under the municipal law, namely that there is a majority in the local government that decides this, and that it is therefore not a minority right. I assume, as I said, that the representatives of this view will elaborate on these points of view. Even I and the Workers' Party and the other parties, except the government coalition and the Christian People's Party and the Left, represent a different view. We believe that minority rights should be maintained. What are we talking about in this context? We are talking about what is the most important thing in a democracy, namely that it is made possible in the best possible way for voters to have easy access to the ballot boxes. Over the years, there has been a lot of discussion about this particular issue — about one-day choices or two-day choices. What I'm a little curious about is that you're so eager to remove this minority right. I think the argument used is in principle, and you also use economic arguments. About the last thing I want to say is that I think of it as purely constructed reasoning. It is not a question of getting cheaper or more expensive when it comes to implementing elections in Norway every two years. It is a reconstructed argument to reinforce the argument that one should not have the same right that one has had in setting up two-day elections. I really don't think the majority of the Storting should have done this. A field that has been established for a long time, where minority rights in this important area have been taken into account. Sometimes the Workers' Party has been part of the minority rights of local government, and sometimes there have been others who have been in it. The minority right has helped to ensure that the local assessment of a minority in the local council has given the possibility to set up a two-day election. There has been no problem, so I really don't understand why you're doing this. You can add the basic arguments if you want to, but you don't want to do it here. This, I think, is – it may not be such a word to be used from the Parliament's pulpit, President, so if there's any knocking, I'll take it easy – uglyly done. That is simply the word bad – I think it is bad, because it is not necessary to do this. There can be no other purpose to this than to make it more difficult to get two-day choices. It has to be when a minority right disappears — that makes it harder to get two-day choices. Then the intention cannot be any other. For the principles attached to this, it is not necessary to indicate in the contexts established here. I record that, for our part – the Workers' Party, which was originally fighting through this scheme – we are now being downgraded, and that we must, of course, set ourselves up after the Storting has said this. But as I said, we should not have done this. It is unnecessary to do so, and the arguments put forward in the mark are formal, and this formality should not have been used to use the possibility of obtaining good two-day elections in the municipalities. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2542	I don't think I want to spend so much time reflecting on what intentions the Workers' Party is against this change. I think I'm going to stick to the positive reason we have for the change. This ‘we’ is in the Committee on the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left, which represent a minority in the Committee, but which is probably materialised in a majority here in the Chamber. The argument put forward by the representative, Mr Kolberg, which must be taken seriously is available. We have seen through time how the voters have become more mobile, but also how the authorities locally and centrally have facilitated extensive prior consultation. It is almost impossible to close the shop for the receipt of pre-consents before the municipal officials begin to accept ordinary voting. In particular, I would like to point out the possibility given to the voters who are not in their municipalities to influence the results and participate in the electoral process. If you look at the accessibility argument for a moment, then all the technological developments, and also the organisation of the elections, have made the election itself easier for people most. Nor have we imagined that we should dictate a solution to the municipalities. It is precisely the municipalities that need to find solutions, based on their priorities and on knowledge of how many voters they have to serve, and also how many constituencies they have to have within the municipality, which belongs to the local election board's natural tasks. What is contained in the proposal is nothing more than what it appears, namely that we believe that the local local council can make this decision. If it was the case that the majority in the committee felt it was irresponsible to wind up elections in Norway over just one day, I expect that they would make proposals in the electoral law that made it a compulsory, mandatory arrangement throughout the country. When that does not happen, I take it as an expression that one considers it most appropriate to have a one-day choice, and that it will be up to the local government in question, based on local knowledge, to adopt this. And then we get into the principle. In all other cases, it is true that those who are going to charge the municipal fund expenditure – it must be a majority – are also those who are going to balance the budget and make room for these expenditures according to a local priority order. It is also best with the other governance system we have for local democracy. Thus, we have come to the point when we address these changes that must be made in the electoral law and the municipal law, as a result of the proposal, and I take it formally here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2557	The representative Michael Tetzschner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2560	In the comments on this matter, I see that some parties attach to us intentions that we do not recognize in. It is more than suggested that one of the reasons for the proposal is that we want to facilitate fewer municipalities holding elections on Sunday. I do not know where the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party, SV and the Greens' Greens' Party have this from, but of course it is quite wrong. Nor do these parties write in the notes that we want to limit the time period for voting. They write this in the notes, and I just don't understand it. No, this is not at all the background for us being involved in promoting this proposal. That matter is about, is something quite different, it's about whether there's a third or half of a local government that's going to make the decision to make a choice over one or two days. That's exactly what it's all about, the basis for a decision locally, in each local government – not whether to restrict the ability to vote. In many places we have two-day choices today, and it works great. Elsewhere, the polls are open only one day, and it can also work well. It is the local needs that govern this, and it will vary what is most appropriate. The municipality decides, and we think the individual municipality here knows best. So what we're discussing is whether there's enough support from a third, or whether it's going to be like in all other things in the local government, that a simple majority should apply. Here the Christian People's Party believes that we can go back to the normal order, as it was before, where there is an ordinary majority of the local government who decide this matter, like all other matters – a good democratic principle, in other words. We don't say anything in one or two days. On the other hand, we say that we still want the municipalities themselves to decide this, and we suggest that the municipalities decide the case on the basis of an arrangement with an ordinary majority. Then the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environment Party write the following in the setting: ‘It is difficult to interpret the intention of the proposers other than to facilitate the holding of elections by fewer municipalities on Sundays before the official election day, thereby limiting the time period during which voting can be held.’ Where did they get this? It has nothing to do with the matter, and I will only for the time being have made it clear that these parties' attempts to interpret the Christian People's Party's intention in this matter have not been particularly successful. At the same time, I think that the question of one or two days' choice has become less important over the years, after the possibility of prior voting over time has been considerably expanded. But this is up to the municipalities to assess. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal that the decision on one or two election days be taken as an ordinary majority decision. We believe that to be a proper and good order.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2580	Just a brief comment from my side to the question: Where do they get it from that this will limit the possibilities? Well, it's in the very obvious nature of the matter, that when you change the law from a minority to a majority to decide it – then it's in the extension of the proposal. So we have it from there, just like that. I say it as a line to the representative Gruvan. That's where we got it. It can't be any different, because the idea must be that when a minority decides it, it's easier to get it than when a majority decides it. Then that's the other arguments. I agree with what is said by several here, that it has changed over the years as regards the possibility of voting, more mobility, prior consent and all these things. But what, in the name of democracy, is the contrast between the fact that it has improved in a number of other areas and the fact that it remains easy to establish a two-day system? I don't understand. I don't understand that there's any contradiction there. On the contrary, this could complement each other in a good way also in the continuation, and where there was a minority in the local government who thought it was okay with two-day elections, because they considered it important in view of the turnout, they should be given the opportunity to do so. That's what's our argument, and that's what was the argument that the scheme was introduced in its time. At that time, the arguments were rather heavier given that there was more mobility and all of these things, as we see, are much better today, and there are much better possibilities for prior polling. But in sum, the possibility of participation in elections is weakened by the fact that in some municipalities, when it's not a minority right now, it doesn't become a two-day election, where it could have been otherwise. That's what this bill in case stops, and I don't think we should. That's what I'm saying. We shouldn't do that, because you should be able to decide locally, but with a minority right when it comes to this particular question. It's not anymore, and that's what's difficult in the matter, when I hear the representative Gruvan is a little indignant about us assigning the Christian People's Party a different view than what they have. I don't want to say that we do that – I just note the fact of the impact of what he will vote for later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2589	In a democracy – in a local democracy – it is usually a strength when you move power from the minority to the majority. That's what we're doing in this case, so that that kind of decision is taken in the same way as other general decisions in a local government. The link you make – the bridge you build – that shifting power to a majority in a local democracy is to restrict democracy, I think, becomes a faulty connection. This is to put things on the same line with how local democracy works on other important issues. Then to the matter and the proposal, and why we believe that it is also over-mature to address this with a prior vote. Let me take an example from Oslo. In Oslo, we have made the last municipal and municipal elections in advance in all 15 parts of the city in a 30-day period, from approx. 10 August until the last Friday before the elections. Nearly 40 psts participated in the 2013 fallout. by the voters in the pre-selection. This means that the availability of voice facilities has improved, and is more widely used. I have tried to read up on the argument that was used by the parties when this amendment was implemented in its time, when power was moved from a general majority to a minority. At that time they had, among other things: the argument that it would make it easier to get up the turnout among minorities. It's an argument that's been used in the Municipality of Oslo at least. But that's the time we have between the elections, where the department and many departments spend millions of dollars on campaigns to get up the turnout, and all those days when the polls are open until the small, artificial – I'll say – the 24-48 hour break from the preliminary polls closes to the election day itself, which counts. If we politicians don't manage to get up the turnout over the entire period, I don't know exactly what's going to happen in the last 24 hours when the premises are closed, before they open again. So there are artificial arguments to say – as has often been done in Oslo – that there is a restriction on the ability of some groups to participate in democratic elections. On the contrary, we're using millions of dollars and a lot of resources to get to that very thing. Although there is a minority proposal in the vote, it becomes a majority decision when it comes to the Stortinget and is adopted as a general majority decision, as most decisions should. I also look forward to the next choices, where the municipalities of course will have all the options to decide whether they will have one-day choices or two-day choices. There is nothing in this proposal that prevents municipalities from doing so. It is important to clarify, because it has almost been given the impression – I would say – that the proposers are actually trying to prevent municipalities from having two-day elections. It's just that it's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2602	I just have a note on the principles here. The representative of Gruvan was concerned with what is most democratic, and the representative of Kapur was now the last to know the experiences of Oslo. There are many things that can be said about what promotes electoral participation best, and there can be many opinions – according to a lot of research and knowledge we have harvested – about turning the electoral participation of groups, which the representative Kapur had in mind. But what was behind the discussion when the law was amended, at least in Oslo, was that we would actually give democracy greater legitimacy by not having the opportunity to suspect or think that those with the majority today are satisfied with the situation. If someone thinks, if you get a vote on Sundays, there are several groups that get the opportunity to go and vote. It's too short a time for you to have a busy work day on Mondays. Those who are good at organizing their day, and who are perhaps more resource-intensive, have easier to vote. Let's open it on Sundays, when some people want better time. If you are generous enough to say that the minority – a third – can have an influence on it, it can also be justified in that it gives democracy an even greater legitimacy, a kind of ‘gentleman’s’ attitude, by not letting the minority feel that the majority is overrun on such issues. So I believe that it is possible to present democratic legitimacy arguments both ways in this matter. I don't know all the research on how two-day elections have turned out in Oslo, but it's a different discussion – I feel – than the very principles of giving the extra legitimacy to how you choose to make choices, by letting the minority, who can think that the majority is earned by how the system has been, get a chance to make a pass, if there's a third that will. There's been some sort of roughness in the system that's been in that mindset. It's important that it comes out when you discuss what's most democratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2609	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for taking the floor, because then we got one of those who might be behind these proposals, up on the platform to tell us a little about the background. One of the things that was raised as an important argument was the legitimacy of democracy. I would like to challenge the representative of Bohemia to tell which parts of democracy lacked legitimacy in Oslo, and the electoral system otherwise, as they wanted to introduce this amendment, and which parts of democracy's legitimacy would disappear if a general majority were to adopt that kind of thing. That's the one. The second is, to follow up the statements made by the representative of Bohemia: what is going to happen or not happens to the legitimacy of democracy by closing the polls one day – once they have been up, for example. in Oslo, from approx. 10 August and 30 days ahead? I wonder very much about that argument. And when the legitimacy of democracy is addressed, I get very curious about how it was in this country a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2616	It was very good a few years ago. The legitimacy of democracy was most present at the time and is it now, whether this proposal is adopted or not. I just said that a fuss in the system towards those who can think that the majority doesn't want it, with different motives, is an advantage because, among other things, it is. was a discussion in Oslo about which groups would benefit from voting on Sundays, which groups would then increase their turnout. It's not given what's the fasit of it. Whether one-day elections or two-day elections give the most legitimacy to democracy will be different from place to place as what increases participation or not. The preliminary votes in elections have increased participation most, I think, in recent years. I just want to end the debate by saying that I was not active in making proposals at that time, but it was about legitimacy, or rudeness is perhaps a better word, rudeness to the minority and thinking that you shouldn't think that someone has any reason for the electoral system being chosen, by giving a minority more influence to it than you normally have in democratic processes. There is an extra consideration in the kind of sensitive issues that this is. That's what was the reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2623	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2637	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2644	Let me start by thanking the representative, Mr Bøhler – colleague of the Committee – and other representatives of the Workers' Party for promoting this proposal. The background to the proposal is that in the big cities, especially in Oslo, we have seen what is called hyblicization, that too many live in one unit. Others have raised issues related to how many units a single person can own in a single unit. There have also been issues related to the types of decision a joint may or may not take if one or more of them are absent from the joint meetings. So that's what we're talking about. These are important points. This is precisely why the government has already started work on following up the legal investigation carried out by a legislative committee in 2014. Among other things, it is now being examined whether or not the acquisition limit can be lifted, the possibility for the joint ventures to prohibit rental, problems related to the hybridisation and a number of other areas. All the more so in relation to what is proposed by the representatives will be taken into account when the government submits this to the Stortinget for the autumn. I also refer to the letters of the Council of State, especially the last one that has arrived, where one goes into the proposals individually and warns that one will address these issues. I would therefore like to refer to the committee comment where we believe that it is most ‘appropriate to wait until the matter comes to Stortinget’ in the autumn of 2016, and that ‘thereby a thorough assessment of all factors and a comprehensive treatment of the new ownership law’. I would like to remind you that the ownership law is also about other important elements than what is being addressed here, and it would be most neat to do it that way. On behalf of the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, I would like to end by stressing once again that we recognise many of the challenges pointed out, especially here in Oslo, but also in other areas of the press. But we think it's important to distinguish a little bit between which laws you need to do something about to meet the challenges. You have the ownership law, you have the planning and building law, there are some regulations and regulations. In all, we also have to make sure that we do not water out one of the most important principles – the right to own and control their own property. So here's a lot of balance sheets to take into account. I think we'll see a complete and good treatment of this for the autumn, and not least look at these challenges also against other laws, which are not taken up here. I'll end with that. I don't see any reason to stay in the hall anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2659	I want to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough work and for showing that he knows that the matter means a lot to many people. We were – and the case rapporteur was there – at a public meeting in November 2014 at Vestli, Stovner, where there was a long queue outside and a packed room with hundreds of people. Those who arranged the meeting represented a well-represented group. There are 12,000 people living in that area, but also several other associations in the same area with tens of thousands of people are engaged in this and have reported different things along the way. So this is about many people who are concerned about what the development of their living environment will be. In addition to the Workers' Party and the Swedish Progress Party, the people's meeting at that time actively supported the proposals agreed. The representative of the Right, who was Kapur, was also very present and had probably more of the approach that he also has here in the Chamber – so there's a context here. What happened further, when the commitment to mutual societies and communities developed, was that the district councils, especially in Oslo, in the Groruddalen, expressed their opinion on this and would have dealt with it at the same time as the hearing on the ownership law, which did not address this issue, were at the hearing. The reason why we are promoting it and addressing it here today is that the topic is not addressed in the NOU on changes in the ownership law. The city councils made unanimous, cross-political decisions, and the same was true of Oslo. From the Workers' Party's side, we have stressed – and referred to – the arguments of the Oslo City Council, together with the Centre Party and SV. Oslo is the city with the largest population affected by this issue, and there are inter-political, unanimous comments from comments and input into the Oslo City Council consultation round that were thoroughly addressed there. It points out that there will be problems in the development of the living environment if there are too many small rental units, such as lessors who do not live in the area, after buying up a number of apartments in the joint. They point out that it leads to large circulation of residents, that it is unstable – it is uncertain who actually lives there – that there is less willingness to be in maintenance, whether it is good or more costly, and that there are loads on infrastructure for which it is not built – whether it is water, sewerage, parking or other things that have been taken up – at all concerns and uncertainties in the living environment. It's a cross-political commitment. I just want to stress that, for example, The current State Secretary, Mr. Bård Folke Fredriksen, who was then City Councillor in Oslo, was actively looking out in Akers Avis about exactly the same thing that the signatory has said about the same thing in the same newspaper. So we've agreed in many ways to propose these initiatives in terms of ownership law. The concern is that there is concern in the living environment in the area we are dealing with through the Groruddal initiative and in other areas – we are betting in vulnerable areas – because the renting rate is increasing so strongly and the circulation of residents makes it hard to know who lives there. This development undermines what we do by the municipalities and states to bet that it will not evolve in the wrong direction in these areas. If there are some places we now see that there is cause for concern in the Grorud valley, and in the areas of area bets also elsewhere in the city, then there are those areas that share a large share of rental and expansion to the furniture, what is called hyblication. If I were to go somewhere in the country where I wanted to say, we have to make sure that we don't get the kind of rental areas where people aren't involved in their neighborhoods, as you've seen in the cities of the drugstores in Sweden, these are the areas I'm talking about. I believe that we should take this very seriously at Stortinget. That's why we wanted to make representations to the Council of State on the proposals we have, in the work on the proposition, because this has not been dealt with in the NOU. It is not shaped as a legislative proposal here today, but as a direction for what we believe the Council of State should promote, which is our first proposal. Our second proposal is more specific and concerns that you should not be able to buy more than two sections in the same unit. This is about giving residents more responsibility for and participation in the shaping of their neighbourhood, and it is also about how their interests can be maintained and not affected by this type of development of the area — in blocks and neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2678	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2681	Yes, I'm taking up the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2686	The representative Jan Bøhler has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2689	Norwegian housing policy has been successful for the wide range of people. People largely own their own homes, many through a housing cooperative or in an ownership cooperative. This is strongly contributing to our high standard of living. The representative proposal we are discussing today is about how we can provide better security for those who own their home through an ownership partnership. The pressure on the housing market makes it attractive to buy up dwellings for rental purposes, often by remodeling and splitting them into smaller units, so-called ‘hybridisation’. I believe it is important to take seriously the warnings we receive that today's legislation does not work as intended. It seems that we all agree that restrictions in the ownership law, which say that it is not permissible to acquire more than two sections in the same joint, have a good intention. We believe that the proposers must tighten up the legal paragraph so that it gets the effect it was supposed to have. I read the Council of State's response as if he thought the Section of Ownership should be removed because it does not work after the intention. The majority believe that we should wait to assess the changes in the ownership law of the department have concluded in the investigation, and put forward a case for Stortinget. The centre party believes that the Storting should give a clear signal that the ownership law should be tightened up in order to increase the possibility for the communities to prevent speculative buying-in and conversion of apartments for rental purposes. We therefore ask that today's restrictions in the ownership law which say that no one can own more than two sections in the same group be maintained and managed so that the provision becomes effective. Our proposals are in line with the previous Stortingen decision when a similar case was dealt with. I believe that we should give the Ministry a clear signal that the changes that are now being prepared in the Ownership Act should contribute to the better functioning of today's law. That's what gives security to those who have bought an apartment in a joint, security that they will also have a safe home in a good living environment for themselves and their families in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2703	I agree with the proposers that it is important to facilitate good and safe living conditions for people who live closely in housing camps and owner-in-law communities. I am familiar with the strong commitment that is in this matter. For the government, it is important that the legal regulation of such collective forms of residence is good. As you know, there is currently a major legislative work in the department related to the law on ownership. The law is based on an investigation by a legislative committee which proposed in August 2014 some changes to the law on ownership. I believe it is important that we have the opportunity to see the coherence of proposals and measures. The legal committee proposed to ban the purchase of more than two sections of the same holding. The proposal was unanimous and justified in the fact that it is easy to circumvent the rules by using strawmen or by establishing limited liability companies that buy sections. The Ministry will give a broad description of the proposal in the legislative proposal to be submitted to the Stortinget for the autumn. With regard to the issue of establishing a legal basis for a majority at the annual meeting to impose lessor restrictions in the joint venture, you are aware that in the letter dated 25 May to the Committee I have stated that my principle starting point is that such rules will represent a major interference in the right of section shareholders to decide whether or not to rent out their own housing section. At the same time, I see that consideration of the living environment can nevertheless legitimize such restrictions. The ministry is currently investigating whether environmental concerns make such a strong claim that the principle principle should give way. I would like to stress that I am, of course, concerned that the municipalities should have the legal means required to avoid creating harmful housing conditions. In the forthcoming proposal, we will assess whether the provisions of the Planning and Building Act are good enough to prevent such housing conditions, or whether there may be grounds for amending or supplementing today's rules. I am thinking in particular of the rules on when an application-based change of use occurs, and of the institutions of the municipalities to impose restrictions on the division of such furniture in the regulatory plan. I think it's useful that this case is promoted, and that we have the opportunity to have this discussion in Stortinget, but I appreciate that the ministry is given the opportunity to see the context of the various proposals and measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2722	I thank the Council of State for having really gone into the matter and showed that it will be working properly into the proposition. That's good to hear. In its last letter to the Committee dated 25 May, the Council of State writes that this would be ‘a significant step in the free movement of persons’, and that ‘there must be good reasons’, etc. to do something in relation to the number of furniture, or how to buy up and split up apartments. I just want to ask: does the Council not see that when people living elsewhere buy apartments and divide them up – it is described that there can be up to 16 people living in a small apartment in the rise – and there are several apartments in the same rise, with the dissolution of the living environment, but also with a large reduction in the value of the other apartments in the rise, is there also some kind of indirect interference in their property or in what their property is like?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2729	That was also the reason why I stressed in my post that at the same time, it is necessary to consider whether the concern for the living environment legitimizes such restrictions. There are several aspects in this whole case complex, that there may be different principal points of view that meet a practical everyday life, and where we have to find good balances. It is these discussions that the ministry is now going into, both professionally and of course with political considerations, which will form the basis for the proposal we are gradually promoting for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2734	Thank you very much for your answer. I would like to add: when the Council of State mentions that it may be relevant to look at the law of the plan and the building and improvements there, it is clear that it can have a positive effect. But it is also important to bear in mind that in communities like this, residents have the participation, sense of responsibility and feeling that they can do something about their local environment, that they can make sure that the local environment works well and that they have a good future there, also very important. In this respect, it will be of great value, as the city councils and the city council, once they have spoken, have suggested that the two-thirds majority of the general assembly should be able to limit the number of apartments that can be purchased and rebuilt, and the number of furniture that can be per apartment, etc. – that it’s not just about planning and building law and something that’s a very distant thing for them, but that they can shape their own future. Does the Council of State see the value in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2741	I think that is absolutely an important value that should also be involved in the assessment of this matter. At the same time, it is also our responsibility to ensure that we have a satisfactory legal framework, in order to avoid living conditions that no one wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2746	Just one more question. This also applies to the major societal interests, such as the debate on integration. We will address the integration message here at Stortinget on 16 June, and we have had discussions after reports from Sweden on the development of urban areas there, with a large proportion of rentals – also seen from an integration perspective. When it comes to succeeding in the area initiatives – which I know the Council of State is currently engaged in, with negotiations on further area action in the Groruddalen – it will be important, even more on the basis of societal interests, that we go hand in hand with the residents in order to give them the opportunity to develop their neighbourhood. So I also believe that the Council of State and the Government should see this matter, how we will succeed in the area efforts, from an integration point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2753	I think we in Norway can be proud of much of the work done in the area of integration. The fact that very many of those who come to Norway and become residents in Norway, even after a period of time owning their own home, I believe that this is an important reason for our success, because owning a home provides better financial security, and it also contributes to better living conditions and living conditions. But it's not enough alone either. It is also important that we get good living environments, including: through territorial lift and the sum of the measures taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2760	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2776	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2783	The changes we are considering today in the law of division and the municipal law have been justified by the ministry's desire to make the merger processes resulting from the municipal reform more flexible. The Committee has noted that in the opinions received by the Ministry for its consultation note, there are different assessments of the proposed legislative changes. The Committee has therefore provided a review of each proposal in order to assess the principal aspects of the proposed legislative changes. Some of the proposals have been considered by an overall committee to be appropriate and unproblematic. Other of the proposals are the different evaluations of the Committee and the majority and minority voting. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's proposal on how to treat merged municipalities in ROBEK if one or more of the municipalities is in the register because they are in financial imbalances. We agree that a new and overall assessment should be carried out after aggregation. The Committee also agrees with the Ministry's proposal that the provisions of the Shareholders' Act on the right of shareholders to take over a share that changes ownership shall not apply when shares are transferred from a municipality to a new municipality. The Ministry's proposal for the division and alignment of borders in the division law is more problematic and has shared the Committee. The proposal requires the application of border adjustment legislation in areas with less than 10 pst. by the inhabitants and that it can be used for areas up to 25 pst. by the inhabitants. By treating border change cases as border adjustment and not sharing, the threshold of involvement and community involvement is lowered. I, together with the majority of the Committee, believe that issues related to classification and border adjustments are of great importance to the community and the people affected. It will also be the case that cross-border communities covering large parts of the municipality will be included in the proposed provisions on what is a smaller part of the municipality. We therefore do not support the Ministry's proposal for amendments to Section 3 of the Division Act. The Committee supports the Ministry's proposal to allow derogations from the requirement for the county council to be called the joint municipal board meeting after a decision on municipal merger has been taken. Where voluntary merger decisions have been taken and the municipalities have already agreed on all practical aspects of the merger, there is no need for a joint joint municipal board meeting. Where aggregation has been decided by the Storing without local consent, the requirement for the joint meeting will continue to apply. The Committee has shared in the evaluation of the Ministry's proposal to formalise the use of Section 17 of the Division Act, which provides for the new Municipal Council to be elected by and among the members of the Municipal Councils of the merged municipalities. The minority, the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV share the opposition of the KS to the proposal on the grounds that indirect elections are less democratic than the new election of local government. I also believe that there is every reason to stop the opinions of Professors Bernt and Smith who are both negative to the proposal to formalise the use of indirectly elected local government after a municipal merger. Professor Smith refers to the recently adopted change in the Constitution, where it is now the Constitution that citizens have the right to direct local affairs through local elected bodies. He believes that any statutory requirement to derogate from the ordinary rules on election to local government must be examined in more detail before any decision can be taken by the Stortinget. The Committee also shares the principles of governance of municipal enterprises in parliamentaryly governed municipalities. The Ministry wants to amend the Local Government Act in such a way that the local government/ county council is given the power to delegate greater powers to the local/local council. Also with regard to this proposal, I and the minority agree with the KS, which says this proposed amendment of the law could weaken the political and democratic governance of municipal enterprises. A unanimous committee agrees with the Ministry's proposal on the obligation to publish meetings. We agree that meetings that can also be held for closed doors and that relate to municipal enterprises are to be announced. Finally, the proposal on who can be elected as a member of the common denominator for the implementation of the agreed local or county merger. An overall committee agrees with the amendment of the law, which also allows members of local or county councils to be elected. The composition of the Municipal and Administrative Committee is such that the majority of the Committee does not necessarily give a majority in the Chamber. In this case, the changes concerning sharing and border adjustment in Section 3 of the Division Act, where a minority proposal has been made, which I expect they themselves to explain. Finally, according to the suspension, the Centerpartiet will not support changes to Section 17 of the Splitting Act and the Municipal Act §§ 62 and 70. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2815	Thanks to the rapporteur for his presentation on a case which has, on several points, brought together a unanimous committee, but which in some areas also makes some surprising minorities visible. When municipalities or county municipalities want to merge, it is important that we have sensible, predictable and flexible rules. The same applies in the case of the division of municipalities, or in the case of the adjustment of the borders, e.g.: where a branch of a municipality wishes to notify transfer to the neighbouring municipality. In the course of the municipal reform, the Ministry has also made many clarifications about issues that arise in the course of local negotiations — from what will happen with a differentiated employer’s fee to local hunting and fishing rights. The present case also clarifies what is happening to a ROBEK municipality, as the case-rapporteur explained, which goes with another municipality. There, the County now has the authority to assess whether ROBEK registration is still available – a practical solution, which was not directly clarified in the law before, but which is now. In other areas, the consensus of the Committee, as the rapporteur also pointed out, is not the same. Today, for example. border adjustments cannot be made at the same time as local government mergers. The question is not whether the ministry should be able to decide on border adjustments, because the ministry can today, the question is whether it should also be possible to decide on such changes in the context of a merger, as a majority of the committee – albeit not in the Chamber – disagrees for slightly unclear reasons. The proposal implies that some limit changes may be treated as limit adjustments, which can then be determined by the King, and may not be dealt with in the Storting as long as there is otherwise agreement on aggregation and division. Since the majority of the Committee is as the rapporteur put it, I would like to refer to proposal No. 1 in the option, on behalf of Right, Party of Progress and Left. Furthermore, the Ministry proposes to enter into the law the practice that has been followed for many years, that in a merged municipality, or in a merged state, there should be no exceptional choice if the aggregation is effective from a turn of the year as there is no prior choice in the harvest. The whole or part of the existing municipal or county councils then constitute the new elected body until elections are held. This is, therefore, a voluntary temporary arrangement with elected representatives who form a new elected body, and, contrary to what the rapporteur suggested, is well in line with the constitutional changes adopted by this House. This is not, as the setting says, an extended right to indirect selection, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV claim. On the other hand, it is a practice that has been followed for years, even under the same government as the three mentioned batches. Now it is explicitly suggested that this possibility be included in the law, and there are issues where the municipalities themselves, or the counties locally, agree not to hold extraordinary elections. Does the Workers' Party believe that the merger of Harstad and Bjarkøy in 2013 should not happen without extraordinary choice first? Their own government chose to do so in the way that they today oppose inclusion in the law. Do they disagree in their own procedure from then on, as seen afterwards? Does the Workers' Party believe that the merger of Sandefjord, Stokke and Andebu will not be carried out from the coming turn of the year without prior elections, when the municipalities agree? Does the Workers' Party believe that Rissa and Leksvik or Holmestrand and Hof or Lardal and Larvik will not be able to join forces from 1 January 2018 without having to hold extraordinary elections first? All of these municipalities have applied for aggregation and agree to set up new local authorities until the next ordinary elections. Why is the Labour Party voting today against the practice they themselves have followed being clarified in the form of an explicit law reference? Already in the morning, this room will deal with a matter of merging the Trondelags. The completions have decided to put together a new common completion from the merger date to the next choice. But in the present case, it is difficult to interpret the vote of the Labour Party, and insofar as the Senterpartiet and SVs, against the proposed confirmation of a long-term practice in a way other than that they believe that the wishes of the Turkish states should not be fulfilled, but that they should be extraordinarily elected. It would have been useful if the Labour Party in particular could clarify its position on this matter from this pulpit, and if they have not prepared a reply today, I can gladly inform you that the question will be repeated in tomorrow's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2834	The representative Frank J. Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2837	This case is about pillars in municipal structure and municipal work – both zoning law and municipal law. There's a lot to say, because there are important things, but I'll try to make this short and clear on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The ongoing municipal reform identifies a number of new issues that need to be addressed. The Christian People's Party is in favour of the community reform, and we want to contribute constructively to its realisation in a good way, in line with what has been the intention of the Stortinge. In today's case, it's about what tools you can use, that is, what tools you have in the toolbox to work with the community reform. However, on the issue of the threshold for border adjustment, the Christian People's Party is opposed to the government's proposal. We can see the practical aspects of the proposal, but it's a balance point towards giving up power. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that the government should be able to determine the limit changes up to 25 p.m. without having to introduce it, is too dramatic for our basic vision. The threshold of 10 pst. We believe that we should continue, and we agree, among other things. KS that in cases where the municipalities concerned do not agree, the matter should be dealt with by Stortinget. The best way to ensure this is to keep today's restriction in areas that include up to 10 pst. by the inhabitants. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, supports codifying a long-term practice on it by bringing together ordinary elections – that it can be chosen by a local government for the rest of the period, by and among the local government, without having to have an extraordinary choice. It is a good practice, and by incorporating it into the law it is clarifying and predictable. The Christian People's Party believes that this is both rational and takes good care of democracy without risking getting elections three years in a row. We would point out that the experience of electoral participation in recent years suggests that this is precisely what makes sense. The Christian People's Party also supports the continued power of parliamentaryally governed municipalities to elect governors in municipal enterprises. It belongs to the delegation regulation. It is the local government or county council itself that chooses whether to use this option. I do not need to comment further, and I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2852	The left is a member of the community reform that strengthens local democracy and moves power down to the lowest possible level. This proposition follows up the municipal reform with proposals for changes that are necessary for the proper implementation of a municipal reform. We think it makes sense that municipal mergers where one of the municipalities is registered in ROBEK do not take the status into a new municipality, but that Fylkesen gives a time-limited authority to assess whether there is still a need to control the economy of the new municipality. The design of today's rules on the sharing of municipalities does not provide sufficient flexibility in merging. It is currently not possible to make one or more border adjustments in connection with the merger of municipalities. The proposal provides that limited parts of such a limit change may be treated as a limit adjustment. Such a limit may be determined by the King of State Councils and need not be presented to the Storting as long as there is otherwise agreement on the merger and division. The proposal implies that border adjustment legislation is normally applied in areas with less than 10 pst. by the inhabitants and that it can normally be used in areas of up to 25 pst. by the inhabitants. This will increase flexibility and several border changes can be assessed at the same time. The possibility of carrying out border adjustments at the same time as merging or other border changes leads to a more comprehensive assessment and to the extension of new borders. The consideration of good consolidation processes indicates that the process requirements need not be more extensive than necessary. We believe that today's rules may prevent local requests for border changes. Alternatively, such changes must be made after adopted aggregations. We believe that processes related to the division of border changes are issues of great importance to the community and people affected. I believe that the proposal takes account of the community and the people affected, by giving a real opportunity for desired border adjustments in the context of bundling processes. In the context of aggregation, questions have been raised about extraordinary elections in the years before the merger, which are not ordinary elections. The left is to legislate on a legal basis to derogate from the rules on municipal government periods and the composition of local government and county councils. It allows all or part of the directly elected local government to form the new local government before joining the next ordinary elections. The left considers that the bill provides a practical way of implementing mergers, at all the turn of the year in the municipal government period, and that the elected local government elects the new local government in the merged municipality – by and among the members there. An indirect choice between two ordinary local governments and county councils does not significantly weaken local democracy when it comes to something extraordinary, and rarely as a merger of municipalities or county councils. I have to say that I think this is relatively inconsistent on the part of the Workers' Party what the representative Jensen mentioned as an example, and on which we get a case tomorrow with the merger of Tøndelag. I understand so much that the SV and the Central Party believe it, which is also like their proposal in the vote, but I think it is very inconsistent with the Workers' Party, because then the party should have followed this in similar cases as well. It's going to be interesting to see what it'll look like tomorrow, because it's not in line with what's presented here. When it comes to border adjustments, it's just taking people seriously -- the fact that branches themselves want to be part of something else when you put together new municipalities. It happens in my area. Some want to be part of Rissa at the end of the old municipality that is now going to be merged with Steinkjer. I really think that's taking people seriously. 80 pst. by people in that area want to belong to the new municipality, which is located further west. That's just what I think is very inconsistent with those who shout about referendum and popular government. It's really people's rule to take branches seriously. We do that with what we get adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2871	I record that the representative Frank J. Jensen was about to be able to raise himself above Section 17 of this case. It is possible there has been a lot lately, but he will now get an answer. As the rapporteur has also said, there is some disagreement in how to look at the proposed changes in this case. If Frank J. Jenssen could read the papers, it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Ministry considered that the exemption from Vallova and Kommunelova in connection with the merger of the municipalities of Bodø and Skjerstad and of the municipalities of Bjarkøy and Harstad had an adequate place in the division law § 17 second paragraph, point (b).’ It is then explained quite briefly, as is also stated in the setting, that we ‘refer that the Ministry considers that such a scheme can be implemented under existing legislation so that there is no need for legislative change at this point’. Among other things, KS also believes that the most sensible thing is that real elections are held for a new municipal government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2883	I would first of all like to thank the Committee on Rapid and Good Work. It is important for the municipalities that we get the clarifications that are now in the setting. It is true – as has also been said in the debate – that problems have emerged during the work on the community reform that it has been right and necessary to address. Most of the country's municipalities are now inside or have been in a discussion to clarify how best to ensure good welfare services for its citizens in the future – whether it is with others or alone. In these days, there are many municipalities that have referendums to get advice from their citizens, while others carry out community studies. Thereafter, local politicians must balance differences of opinion and, by 1 July at the latest, make decisions for the benefit of the citizens in the future. Members shall sum up and make their recommendations by 1 October at the latest, in line with the wishes of the Grand Duchy. So I'll come back to Stortinget with a proposition in spring 2017. Through the processes that have been in the municipalities, the Ministry has been made aware of some elements of the law that are unclear or inappropriate for the municipalities that wish or consider to merge. With this bill, the government proposes some minor but practical proposals for changes to the law of division. At the same time, we propose some changes to the municipal law. The Division Act is a Process and Implementation Act for the Change of Municipal and County Borders. While no comprehensive review of the law of division has now been carried out, the government has made proposals for amendments which have proved necessary for the law to function as a good tool for changing municipal borders. The proposed changes do not involve more governmental governance or more mandatory elements of the merger process. The changes are partly necessary clarifications and partly proposals that increase flexibility and facilitate good local solutions. Both components shall contribute to the smooth implementation of local bundling processes. One of the proposals is that the government should be able to decide that the local government of the new municipality can choose from and between the members of the merged local government. The Ministry's proposal presupposes that municipalities themselves both want and adopt this approach. The majority of the Committee has stated in the vote that the proposal is an expression of the exercise of local self-government and is therefore in line with the recent review by the Stortinge of the fundamental legislation on local self-government. I share this perception. The changes to the municipal law deal with two themes. Firstly, changes are proposed to facilitate transparency and meetings in elected bodies. The proposal has received unison support. In addition, it is proposed to legislate the possibility for the local government of parliamentaryally controlled municipalities to delegate the management of municipal enterprises to the City Council or to the individual trade union bureau. The proposal is in line with a successful proposal implemented in the Municipality of Oslo. Most of the proposals received support in the consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2904	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2907	Professor Smith has great concerns about the application of this, regarding the law passed here in the Chamber on 31 March on the law of local democracy. He believes it is unfavorable that we now introduce this without having been a proper investigation, and that this should come back to the Stortinget at a later stage after a proper investigation and not be adopted in the way we do today. What is the Council of State's assessment of those opinions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2913	That's what I said in my article. I agree with the majority in this Chamber that this proposal is in line with the amendment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2918	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2923	The big deal is dealing with many important reforms, and our committee is getting the most exciting. Both the municipal reform and the regional reform will bring about major changes in the public structure in the future. This case concerns different aspects of the law when it relates to municipal convergence. It shall apply, inter alia: ROBEK status, pre-purchase rights for axles and sharing and border adjustment in the event of a municipal merger. The partitioning law is an important hub for managing the ongoing municipal reform. Many municipalities have entered into voluntary agreements with neighbouring municipalities, and there will be many municipalities that will have to confirm new borders through negotiations in the time to come. The municipal reform is not a big deal because one wants to change Norway. There's something you can do because you see that Norway has changed. This, of course, also applies to the municipal borders. Many of the towns in this process can be an important part of a new municipality instead of becoming a fringe of the old one. A single committee indicates that the Ministry’s rationale for the proposals is that the merger processes resulting from the municipal reform should be carried out smoothly. The majority in the Committee also indicate that the design of today's rules on the sharing of municipalities does not provide sufficient flexibility in merging. It is Stortinget's responsibility to define its tasks and limits. This proposal is not part of more governmental governance, but a legislative change that gives local politicians greater freedom to make local decisions in line with their citizens' interests. They have both a great responsibility and great potential in the ongoing processes. Today it is not possible to implement border adjustments in connection with a municipal convergence exercise, but this proposal means that limited parts of such a limit change can now be treated as a limit adjustment. There is no doubt that this increases flexibility when several border changes are assessed at the same time, and that it will lead to more holistic assessments and thus to a longer standing of new borders. In my home area, there's going to be a lot of exciting community conspiracies. After Ørsta and Volda said no to each other, they continue to work with a merger of Volda, Hornindal and Stryn. In this context, the board of Bjørke branch has expressed in an open letter to Ørsta Municipality that if Ørsta continues as its own municipality, it is natural that one looks at the adjustment of the municipal boundary of that part of the municipality that is owned by Bjørke. This is a very sensible border adjustment, in my view, and a good example of the fact that one through the community reform can also bring about border adjustments that will provide good and decent borders in the future. Now it will be up to the Bjørk branch layers, the municipalities and the county to provide good grounds for such a limit adjustment, and the Bjørk branch layers will be able to sit in the driver's seat in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2940	The representative Lauvås had registered my involvement in this matter, and that's right. It's good that someone is also committed to these kinds of things. It was enough that he also tried to give an answer to my questions, but I have to admit that I am still a little stunned over which foot the Labour Party here chooses to stand on. On the one hand, it appears that there is no desire to introduce this codification of a long-term practice because it is believed that the ministry already has a legal basis. It is true, however, that changing governments may not have violated the law by the way they have contributed to the merger of municipalities in the past, but it may be beneficial to get things explicitly expressed in the law without any extension of state power in this context. On the contrary – as the Council of State also underlined, and as I said in my speech – it is a matter of not having extraordinary choices when the municipalities concerned themselves ask for it and agree to it. However, if the Labour Party believes it is consistent with today’s practice, that today’s practice is ok, and that the government can relate to the basis of the legal basis it is believed to have today, it is strange that the representative Lauvås in the same article invokes KS’s argument and indicates that KS in this context argues that the most appropriate thing will be to put the new municipal governments together in a new choice. It still seems to be highly unclear whether the Workers' Party believes it is right that municipal governments who wish to join forces and who agree not to hold extraordinary elections should be able to refrain from holding extraordinary elections and rather set up a common local government or county council based on the already elected people, or whether it is understood, as indicated by the KS, that there must be extraordinary elections. Then you get a lot of choices in a row, just as it's also pointed out from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2951	I was a little surprised by the representative Laivaas’ posts here instead, where he chose, in his entire post, to refer to the KS. Tomorrow we shall debate another matter. From what I can see, and from what will be the vote of the Labour Party today, this must mean that tomorrow the Labour Party will be promoting a proposal for an extraordinary election specifically for the Trondelags. Otherwise, it would be directly inconsistent with what they stand for today. Of course, the undersigned will consider it when it comes to the table. I guess that's the consequence of what the Workers' Party is voting for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2958	First of all, thank the case-speaker for taking this matter through the Committee in an otherwise hectic time for the Committee. I think it is nice that even though the committee is working on major issues in the field of asylum and immigration, with the municipal proposition and is in the process of the municipal reform of its local process, it manages to accumulate such a high level of commitment to the law of division and, in particular, § 17 and it seems to me that I am good. The proposition that we are now dealing with cleans up a lot of things, and I believe the municipalities appreciate the foresight. But I have to say that I have cost myself to read both the media image and the settings and see how the working party behaves during the day. We all see that they change meaning from month to month and from day to day. What we see in this setting is that one at the same time thinks three different things. If you look at the setting attached to Section 17, which we have discussed most today, the Workers' Party notes that they do not support the proposal to adjust Section 17, i.e. they do not want to adjust Section 17. Then they're involved in a comment that says they don't see the need to change Section 17 because the law is already fine, so there's no need to change the law at this point. And then maybe the most funny thing is that they, on the same side as they say there's no need to change the law, are involved in a comment that says: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, point out that the Ministry of Justice, in its opinion, considers that the Ministry’s proposal should have the consequence that Section 17 of the Divisional Act is rewritten in such a way that it becomes clear what should apply.’ So this is a new Norwegian record in meaning three things at once, and then it's very pleasant that one can tell what one thinks the most: is there a need to do nothing, to change or need to go against, because one is against? I'm not going to drag it up to the big heights that we're very excited about what the Labour Party will mean, but it would have been really neat if Norway's largest party could actually be clear and clear and say something rather than mean everything at the same time, as they have now seen a new Norwegian record in doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2972	In his speech, the Council of State said that he was pleased that the Committee has provided rapid treatment for this in order to make it more flexible in all the merger processes that will result from the municipal reform. As the Council of State itself pointed out, in these days there are many referendums. Yesterday there were 20 referendums, and it was probably in a couple of them, but none of them had anyone who wanted to join them, so there's going to be zero aggregations after yesterday's referendums. It does not seem that it is so urgent to get this in place, nor does it apply in so many cases. What I took the floor for was to comment on Skkelstad's argument to extend the possibility of border adjustments, where he says we should take the people seriously and listen to the people. We're going to do that. But it's like that if 25 pst. by the inhabitants of a municipality can separate themselves without the ability of the local government or the other inhabitants to determine, it is 75 pst. of the population of the municipality which may be subject to major changes and which may have significant consequences for them. Think of the situation in which a branch with large power revenues chooses to break free and move to the neighbouring municipality. The municipality may have made large investments to finance the economy and action plan through these revenues. What will the consequences for the 75 pst? by the residents who are left with the investment, with the debt but who do not have the income with which they intend to finance it? That is why we are very sceptical that this can happen without the local council being told about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2981	The representative, André N. Skelstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2984	It was a very clarifying post from the representative, Mr. Greni. I respect largely what is of referendums, it also does this hall, but now she emerged out of the closet in many ways. They're just indicative of the Center Party. So when real local democracy affects the branches, the Center Party will not be involved. I think this was very clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2989	It's interesting to hear that the Left here in the Chamber draws the conclusion that the Central Party will not respect referendums. If there's anyone who's spoken for referendums and has respect for them, it's the Center Party. But what has consequences for 25 pst. by the inhabitants, also has consequences for the other 75 pst., and we will listen to all the inhabitants of one municipality, not just to the 25 pst. Then local democracy will be allowed to express its opinion on such a matter. It shall not be left to the government, nor to the king, as it is written in the law. In fact, local democracy should have its opinion if 25 p.m. by the inhabitants of a municipality want to change the municipality. Having respect for referendums, I can promise that the Central Party will also have both in this period and in the future, and I hope that the Left can promise together that the referendums now held will be fully respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e2996	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3010	It is a unanimous committee that subscribes to the legislative proposal under consideration. The proposal will allow the establishment of private minority ownership in jointly liable public water power companies or jointly liable companies, as an alternative to public limited liability companies. These changes allow private joint owners to take effect corresponding to their own holding as dividends. The Committee considers it important that this legislative amendment can contribute to a stable access to power for power-generating industries under commercial conditions. The Committee considers that the legislative changes do not prejudge the requirement of effective public ownership of the hydropower resources and therefore assume that the concessional treatment will carefully assess whether the company agreement allows public majority owners to exercise ownership in order to comply with the provisions of the law. Industrial ownership in the form currently open ensures self-sufficiency in industrial production and reduces the need for external power contracts. This will make industry less vulnerable to fluctuations on the power exchange. The Committee has not addressed the issues raised by the fact that proposals for a methodology for assessing the self-sufficiency of industry for the purposes of land-interest tax have now been put to the consultation. For my part, I would like to point out that the purpose of the amendment of the law that we are now doing is to ensure that industrial owners can meet their needs for foreseeable power availability. Predictability and long-termity are important for power-processing industries. Today's legislative change will contribute to this, and I expect that it will not be affected by other changes in the industry's framework conditions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3023	When I choose to take the floor even though it's a unanimous committee, and although it's kind of piggy in the press department, it's because I think this is in many ways a historic day. The Industrial Concession Act is a law that has been with us since we began to harvest industrially from our hydropower resources and has laid the foundation for good and efficient management and industrialisation based on our fantastic renewable hydropower resources. I am pleased that we have full political agreement on this matter, and that it has been clear from the time this matter was presented. This is an important issue for industry. Facilitating the continued development of the power-generating industry in Norway is important in order to continue to create large – and maximum – values based on our fantastic renewable hydropower resources, it is important to create profitable jobs, it is important in a climate perspective, and it is important to meet the not insignificant surplus of power we see. With this bill, the government follows up the Sundvolden Declaration. We are doing this to facilitate precisely what we have promised there, that industrial owners can own hydropower in a way that ensures the need for long-term, stable and predictable power availability from a generation perspective, while at the same time taking place within the consolidation model. I am pleased that the case-rapporteur presented the matter in a large way and also pointed out that with this bill we take care that those in power generation can take it out in force, instead of – as today – just as financial dividends, while at the same time ensuring that the public majority shareholder still has full control and ownership of the falls, which is the element that guarantees that we are good in European competition law with these changes. I am also pleased that, in the context of the public change of words about this matter, the group leader of Hydro Aluminium, Svein Richard Brandtzæg, said that due to this amendment that is being adopted today, after the government made the proposal earlier this year, it has been decided to continue the development of Hydro Karmøy and a new melter. It's one of the biggest investments in the mainland industry in a very, very long time. It is an investment that already creates hundreds of jobs, based on clean renewable energy, in a region that is now really in a situation where new activity and new profitable jobs are needed. So I just want to thank the case rapporteur and the rest of the Stortinget for a very good and very effective, you could say, cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3036	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3050	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3057	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for having solved this matter very quickly, which was also the wish of the proposer. The issue we are discussing today is the proposal by the Socialist Left Party and Kirsti Bergstø on the treatment of social security settlements. I think it's important, when we deal with this case, that we have the story with us. It started with the pension agreement that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, stood behind. The pension agreement resulted in a more technical calculation based on wage and price growth, which was briefly explained, less 0,75 pst. Following the pension agreement, the Stortinget has been dealt with during the same period as the revised national budget. In the case of a technical calculation, the Government proposed that this could be dealt with together with the revised national budget. It was clearly mentioned in the State budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which we dealt with last autumn, on page 15 of the Proposition under Subchapter New Budgeting Procedure. In retrospect, we see that this has created a relatively large debate and commitment among many of the country's pensioners, as well as proposers. The Cooperation Parties The Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party have always been listening when it comes to recordings from many of the country's pensioners. There has been no performance for us in this matter, and we fully agree that the actual social security settlement and treatment of pensions are a major and important matter that deserves a thorough debate. That is why I am pleased that the four parties today, in the form of a note, are asking the government to come back to the Stortinget with a message there, among other things. The background documents for social security settlement are presented in order to have a good and thorough debate here in this Chamber. It is important, because the challenge of settlement is that it is largely based on assumptions. Wages and salaries, on the basis of which the social security scheme is based, are not necessarily completed at the time when the social security scheme is established. At the same time, no one knows what inflation, the price rise, is going to be. Then we are happy that we get a message every harvest and can follow up the situation after several months. At the same time, Storting is always free to make any adjustments. It will not be entirely in line with the pension agreement, but of course, the Storting is always the sovereign to do so, and you can provide signals for future settlement. I'm glad we get it. I see that the author of the proposal together with the Labour Party and the Central Party is proposing that this be dealt with instead in the spring, and I would assume that they themselves will argue for it in the debate today. Let it be clear that all parties in this Chamber consider a good and thorough debate to be important. Today’s discussion is about whether this should be in the spring or in the autumn. Pension is an area where there are different views in this room. The Progress Party's attitude to retirement is well-known: While many other parties consider pension to be a benefit from the state, the Progress Party believes that retirement is something to which one has earned and paid over a long life. I am pleased that we have a government that on several occasions has strengthened the financial situation of pensioners, which we will also discuss here in the Chamber on Friday in a matter of strengthening lone minimum pensioners. The government has previously reduced the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. Fortunately, we have a government that takes the pensioners very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3074	The reason why we have this proposal for a representative for consideration is that the government has decided on its own merits that the social security scheme is not important enough to be presented as a matter of its own to the Stortinget. The Labour Party does not agree with the government's assessment. Yesterday afternoon, the author of the proposal, Kirsti Bergstø, received a well-deserved flower from the Pensioners' Association to try to ensure that the social security system receives the treatment that matters. Unfortunately, the proposal will be put to the vote. The Committee and the majority of the population, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, seem to think that this is only purely budgetary. Of course, it is not, and the case-rapporteur forgot to say why the settlement this year is a technical calculation, while last year it was a major political matter for the Progress Party. We agree that this is a political matter, because it is one of the largest expenditure items in the state budget, and it is about the income of over one million inhabitants. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is obvious that such an important case is to be submitted to the Stortinget, with analyses of income development and distribution profile. It came as lightning from the clear sky that the social security settlement was no longer to be presented to the Stortinget. Neither in the social security settlement 2015 nor in the budget for 2016 did the government signal that 2015 was the last time. However, in the 2016 budget hearing, the Pensioners’ Association warned against the government’s proposal for new budgetary practices, by budgeting the social security scheme below for individual items in the budget rather than for miscellaneous items. The Workers' Party decided to take the Pensioners' Association seriously and asked the government to reconsider this practice on the first occasion. Last year, however, the majority could reassure all with the following comments: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Party of Progress and the Left, note that new budgetary procedures do not affect the implementation of the social security system.’; That was not the case. In the view of the Workers' Party, a substantial part of the implementation of the social security system is that it will be dealt with in the Stortinget. It is surprising that the government is so badly connected with its own large-scale groups and supporting parties, if it is not because the government, including the finance minister and party leader Siv Jensen, would prefer to try to avoid future pension charges like those we saw in the last year’s settlement, when the government, including the finance minister and party leader Siv Jensen, meant one thing and the ‘burdening-FrP’ something else. Rightly, there was another state council at the settlement last year, but the Solberg government is the Solberg government, regardless of who is at any time in the state council in each department. During the social security settlement last year, the Council of State stated that we should deal with social security schemes in the same way that we have always done in the future. At the same time, it was announced that the government would review the technical way of calculating the settlements, since in 2015 there was a negative settlement for pensioners for the first time, while others went in positive. The same has happened now in 2016, and the government believes that this is the most likely result for 2017 and 2018. The government would come back to Stortinget with its assessment. The government hasn't. Social security provision for 2016 would be an excellent opportunity for such a discussion, based on the facts of distribution and income development for the different groups that depend on social security provision. Instead, the government has chosen to present a showdown in RNB that is more revealing than informative. With $2.50 a.m. kr in tax cut, SEK 2,7 billion. NOK for retirement couples and SEK 82 million. The average pensioner has had a positive income development for single retirement pensioners with a minimum pension, we can read there. In brackets, the addition to lone minimum pensioners with an old age pension was not the work of the government, not the Right-wing Works, not the work of the Progress Party, it came after pressure from the government's supporting parties in the Stortinget. The Labour Party had the same proposal, but otherwise it would apply to all real minimum pensioners, not just those with an old age pension. But back to government list – The Workers' Party's question is: How is the distribution profile on it? A timely question is how does this turn out for lonely pensioners compared to those who are two? What is the distribution profile for tax cuts? Who gets the most? And what about those who have so little that they don't pay taxes? All of these important questions could be discussed if the social security settlement was presented in the usual way. It has the government, i.e. The Right Party and the Left Party, with the support of the Left Party, determined not to happen – party-politically understandable, but not for the sake of the pensioners, especially for those who have the least. With this, I take up the minority proposal, which is behind the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3094	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3097	For the right, it is important to ensure that pensioners maintain purchasing power in line with other residents in Norway. For employees, this is arranged annually through wage-fixing and collective agreements. When the fronts are done, the others continue, and during May, we know basically what framework the payroll ends with. On the right, annual social security payments are important, giving opportunities and overviews of the economic situation of the country, of the employees, of the pensioners and, of course, of the beneficiaries. The fact that the social security recipients and social security funds have previously been a matter for the Storting in the context of the revised national budget is now changing to a separate matter in the ordinary state budget – and thus in practice also a good occasion in the revised state budget. As a result, parties who wish to do so may propose alternative proposals in budgetary terms and not as a solution to the proposals for appropriations, which are not to be put into the budget, in the revised budget or in the budget, as we have seen earlier in this Chamber. I also register that it was only SV that last year had other suggestions for social security settlements than what was negotiated by the government. It seems – according to the debate that I have recorded at least – that this is also the case for the social security settlement in 2016. Thus, there is no discussion about the social security settlement itself, the outcome or the implementation itself. The government budget already includes projected wage growth in both the private and public sectors. Price increases and estimates of interest rates have been made. Any changes shall then be made up or down in the revised budget or at the date of ageing during the course of the Grand Duchy's proceedings in December. The basis for a regulation is the expected wage growth in the regulatory year, adjusted for any deviation between expected and actual wage growth in recent years. The rule implies that the basic amount and the retirement pension are regulated in accordance with salary growth. Thus disability benefits and other benefits that are regulated in line with changes in the basic amount are regulated in accordance with the wage growth. It is similar for other pension schemes. For an old-age pension during payment, other rules apply. That is often what the discussion in this case has been about. This was determined by The Storting in 2007 and in practice implies that the old-age pension during payment is to be regulated by an average wage and price increase, less a fixed factor of 0,75 pst. The government supports this model. This is a model that is set out in the Sundvolden Declaration and is the basis of a large majority in the Storting. For 2016, the result of the negotiations is that the basic amount increases from 90 068 kroner to 92 576 kroner from 1 May 2016. This is an increase of $2,508, which is 2.78 pst. The government had basic talks and negotiations with the Pensioners' Association, the Senior Case, the Defence Union, the LOP, the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons and the Cooperation Forum of Disability Organisations, the LO, the YS, the UNIO and the Academics. There has been agreement on the numerical basis of the regulation for 2016. In 2016, salary growth is averaged at 2.4 pst, while the consumer price index is expected to increase by 2.9 pst. We know that more people are going to be unemployed, more people are going to be out of work. They experience a partial reduction in their purchasing power. A number of individual enterprises have adopted wage reductions and freezes. Very many will therefore have reduced purchasing power next year. It will also apply to some pensioners. At the same time, the government – together with the Christian People's Party and the Left – has contributed to significant tax reliefs, which also benefit the same pensioners. This applies primarily to increased basic pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners, tax relief, reduced taxes on wealth and increased basic pensions for lone minimum pensioners. Overall, this economy strengthens 600 000 pensioners and 145 000 unemployed. I record that the social security settlement itself has met with a small political debate in Stortinget. As I experience it, it means that the social security settlement for 2016 is recommended by the Labour Party, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party, Left, Center Party and, probably, the Green Party, while SV – if they follow up their revised budget from last year – are the only ones who have alternative proposals. It's a necessary clarification, in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3125	I would like to thank the Committee on Health and Safety for its excellent work. There was initially some uncertainty about how the matter would be dealt with. I think it's good that it's ended this way, with a thorough attitude from the committee – that we managed to handle it that way. We had some criticism in our time that we would not have to deal with the matter urgently, but I think – as it has been – it is better for the development of the matter and the time that the committee has dealt with it more thoroughly. But to the matter. I would like to refer to what the rapporteur says, and which is also in the vote, that there is a changed practice in the way in which one now pays or budgets the settlement, because it is now regulated by law and regulation. It also makes sure that we do not have to get the same case to Stortinget. We nevertheless think it would be right to have a good debate on the pension issue in the Storting every year. That is why I am pleased that at least the majority of the committee in the vote agreed that there should be a notification before the fall, so that one could take that round. I agree with the representative, Mr Kambe, that one then has the opportunity to discuss it in the context of the State budget and in the context of the revised budget, and that it may also be possible to promote alternative changes. Nevertheless, when it is regulated by law and regulation, the matter is put in a slightly different light. But I think it is nevertheless right that a person should be presented with a background figure, the forecast for the settlement, etc. in a separate message. So I would say that the pension reform can be demanding to defend. It's good that there's such a large majority in this room that's behind it. But it is absolutely necessary to ensure that we are able to do more work and that we can take care of the sustainability of the reform. I am uncertain about those who stand here and debate pension in 20–30 years – whether there are no further tightening of the pension. At least it can be fast. Therefore, there is no reason to create a big debate out of the matter either. Not that I suspect the proposers just to create noise around the matter – I sincerely believe in what has been the background – but there is no clue that this year's debate will be about whether or not it should be a matter of its own. In that case, one must do as SV has done – promote alternative proposals. That's what I feel they want the basis and the ability to do. But I want to warn you not to change the system in that direction, just because a quick skips the bill over to the next generation. At least the way I read the forecasts, the perspective messages and other things, the challenge will be very big in the future. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to point out that through the budgetary agreement we managed to raise those who have the least – the minimum pensioners get NOK 4000 more. As has been pointed out earlier, there was a reduction in the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners. Taking debates on the pension system seems important and relevant to me, but it is also important, in my view, that the majority in the United Kingdom is able to think about the long-term challenges. As I now see it, there is no reason to rock the pension system, the pension reform. Rather, there is reason to make adjustments that ensure the sustainability of the system, if any. But that's another thing. I am pleased that the Stortinget now agrees that we will receive a treatment of the social security settlement in Stortinget every year, and that this is done following a notification in connection with the annual government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3142	The Norwegian welfare model is based on rich natural resources, full employment, modern technology and a well-organised labour market. Embarrassing relationships between people are a great advantage. It gives stronger communities, it gives greater trust, and that's the basis for people to pull together. Those who are out of work because of their age or incapacity for work are given their financial bases through the establishment of social security, where the regulation of basic amounts in social security and the special rules for minimum pensioners are clarified. The social security system includes many hundreds of thousands of people and is a very important part of the distribution policy. It is important to ensure that those outside the labour market have a decent pension to live on in high-cost Norway. The central party supports the SV’s proposal to ensure full treatment of the social security system in Stortinget, as indicated by the importance of the matter and the tradition. The dry cleaning has been presented as a matter of its own to Stortinget for several decades. As a result, the Storting had to deal with the economic situation for, among other things, age pensioners of the country. The centre party believes that such a treatment gives the matter what it deserves. Similarly, due to the Norwegian tradition of well-organised working life, it is important to have a trusting involvement of pensioners’ organisations, precisely because they play an important role in the further development of the welfare society, where, as voluntary organisations, they do a large and profitable job in many contexts, both centrally and locally. It is important to clarify that consultation between the State and the pensioners’ organisations is a preparation for the treatment of the Storting – this is because only the Stortinget can, according to Section 75 of the Basic Law, grant the necessary amounts of money to cover the expenditure of the State. Social security is an important part of the distribution policy. The economic situation for people is now radically changing from the extremely strong real income increase in the 2000s to a situation of real income decline, which is the consequence of, among other things, the increase in real income. the pensioners. This fact is important to get an annual, full evaluation of, among other things. The social security settlement is presented to Stortinget as a matter of its own in the spring. This must be done at the same time as, for example, the settlement of wages and salaries in the private sector between the parties and the other settlements to which the State is party, such as the compensation of government employees and the agricultural agreement, is dealt with in the Stortinget. The right, the Progress Party and the Left's proposals in the setting of information on social security settlements in their own notification together with the government budget in the autumn will not be a sound solution, because the timing of treatment in the Stortinge is being removed from the full focus of the wage and income policy. It is important that one has the full attention to the whole, and then the situation of pensioners must be addressed at the same time as the work situation. Therefore, only treatment in spring will provide a real treatment in Stortinget. As I said, the social security system is very important, and as a result of weaker government finances in the years to come, there will be a need to improve household spending. This will, of course, also cover the major appropriations which are the consequence of social security schemes. For the Central Party, it is therefore important to have an ongoing political discussion in the Stortinget, adapted to Norwegian economic reality, where the leadership star of the Centre Party is to ensure more economically friendly relations between peoples – more economically friendly relations between people. This is a cornerstone of our political value base, and therefore the social security settlement must be dealt with in the spring, along with the other settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3161	The left supports up on the pension agreement. Fortunately, it also does any other party in this hall, at least when they're in power. It's important, because we who live today, we who adopt the budget today, we push some huge costs ahead of us that the next generation will be allowed to figure out. The pension settlement is the one major reform that this house has been able to adopt over the last ten years that to some extent is doing something about that challenge. We future pensioners should be involved in and contribute through lifelong adjustment, and today's pensioners are involved in and contribute through the so-called underregulation, which tends to have our aim of criticising social security funds. In the government budget for this year, there is a consequence that social security decisions are now governed by law, regulations, regulations, and hence the possibility of budgeting. You move this away from the rest of the way to the top of the posts where it belongs. That makes sense and is also stated in the budgetary documents. When it is said that we who adopted the budget and read it should perhaps understand that the logical consequence of such a change in practice was that the Stortinget would not have a case for spring either, but I have to say that it was not quite obvious that we should understand. I think there were a lot of people who didn't understand it. So this debate is coming to the Chamber now, and SV has drawn this up in a commendable way. That was also why the Left supported the fact that we should have a quick examination of that proposal, because we thought it was right that the Storting should discuss it and treat it quickly. Now there was none of it, but fortunately the committee has been willing to deal with the matter quickly, in the ordinary way, and we have thus received a debate in the spring session on this matter. That's good. Then, from the point of view of the majority, we have also landed on what's a reasonable conclusion, and that's that we're going to get a case in the Storting and treat it in its full width to the fall and the fall then. A lot of people might think that this is a sandstorm, and we probably won't see that the parties make any actual proposals, other than probably SV, but from the left side, we have just as much respect and understanding for the desire that is: getting a thorough explanation, numbering the table, information, and discussing an important matter in Norway's most important house. I look forward to doing that to the cottage. I think it is a good conclusion that we have landed on today, and I hope that the Swedish proposal maker too is pleased that the Stortinget decided to change course based on what was outlined in the government budget documents. Finally, I couldn't help but comment on the case spokesman, because the representative Wiborg is standing here and says that he and the Progress Party “respect” pension that something you have paid in and get back. Yes, he'd like to "see" it like that, but it doesn't do it right. If that were true, we wouldn't have anything to discuss here today. If it were the case that we had a pure pension scheme for everyone in this country, and they picked up what they paid in, the Progress Party would not be able to make choices to increase the pensions to anyone. We wouldn't have a social security policy. It's because we have a pension scheme that has a distortive effect. I also think that the Progress Party is actually for, because it means that those who have not managed to live a long life in work, or perhaps have not always got a job or ready to pay very much, are still getting a decent pension through a needy welfare system. We're all for that, and then we don't drive and shouldn't operate with a rhetoric that obscures what's real.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3176	The social security scheme deals with the income of 868 513 old-age pensioners, 317 100 unemployed and a number of other groups. This case has been presented as a separate proposition for the Storting every year. As you know, the government has decided not to present the social security bill to the Storting in the usual way. It is justified that the regulation of pensions is legally anchored and that the government believes that it has put forward new practices for budgeting through the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' draft budget for 2016. As mentioned earlier, the estimate of the costs has been budgeted by the Ministry of Finance under the heading of general government. From 2016 onwards, a mechanism was put in place to budget the estimate under the budget line for which the cost will be incurred. The 2016 draft budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs referred to the new scheme, but it is in no way clearly described that the social security scheme should not be promoted as a matter of its own. Nor in the budgetary position of the Labour and Social Committee is it clear from the majority that the Storting should not be dealt with in the usual way. The government's action pattern is a clear breach of a long tradition in which the Stortinget is briefed on the development of social security, and where Norwegian pensioners' social security settlements receive legal treatment in Stortinget. I also have to say that this happens in a special situation. For the second consecutive year, pensioners lose purchasing power. The government's own forecasts indicate that this will be the case in the years to come. I find it difficult to find any good reason to take the social security settlement away from the Storting case map, unless you want to play political mystery, and unless that's the way to prevent debate and criticism and look at the economic development of the country's pensioners. The situation with a loss of purchasing power should be the basis for initiatives in the opposite direction, namely how to ensure that the country's pensioners do not get hung while the price of bread and housing rises. The Progress Party refers to the pension reform with a purely mathematical understanding, which forces a reduction in purchasing power. But pension reform is a political reform. It is, of course, possible to make political assessments if it is considered to have adverse effects. I also think it has been particularly important to hear that there has been evidence that everyone could influence the process in the revision, and that this is where proposals can be made, all the time the consultation in the revision has taken place before the social security settlement. That's what I call a skin process. SV is concerned about the economy of the country's pensioners. We are also concerned that the economic differences are increasing within the pensioners' group, and we are concerned that particularly lonely times face more difficult ones. SV has reacted strongly to the attempt to remove the social security settlement from the case card. It also has the country's pensioners. Therefore, I am pleased that we have managed to press the government to recognise the importance of the social security settlement by the government parties having now turned around and realized that the matter has to be addressed to Stortinget. But submitting a message about the autumn is not a good solution. Everyone knows that there is not enough money to send a groceries message. It is difficult to look at the desire to take the social security settlement away as a matter of its own for the benefit of a message, as something other than an attempt to separate money and retirement. The dry cleaning takes place in the spring. Therefore, it must also be dealt with in the Storting in spring. Treating a social security notice in the autumn is a bit like inviting you to go on a mushroom trip in January. It is nice to be invited on a trip, but there are few possibilities to find mushrooms. SV requires full treatment of the social security scheme. That is why we are today proposing that the social security settlement be presented as a separate matter to the Stortinget starting from the social security settlement in 2017. I also think it is special to think that such an important matter should be removed because there is no tradition of promoting many proposals for it. This is about the possibility of looking in one direction, discussing the settlement and seeing it in the context of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3204	Wide-ranging pension settlements have established clear rules for regulating pensions. The social security settlement of the year is fully implemented in line with these rules. Current regulation ensures predictability of pensioners by linking pension developments with wage developments. This also contributes to the cost of pensions being proportionate to the carrying capacity of employees, and it is important not least in demanding times now. Because the Storting has established clear and predictable rules for the regulation of pensions, it is possible to take into account pension expenditure in the Ministry of Labour's budget already in the State budget. Thus, when examining the State budget for 20l6 last autumn, a budgetary change was adopted whereby the estimated impact of the current year's regulation of basic amounts and pensions was budgeted for relevant items in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As a number of speakers have pointed out, these funds were previously budgeted at the Ministry of Finance's external post, and then moved through a separate proposal on supplementary appropriations in the Ministry of Labour's budget in connection with the establishment of social security funds. As a result of this conversion, where the estimated budgetary impact of the pension regulation had already been included in the State budget, there was no need for a separate budget proposal with proposals for additional appropriations for the social security settlement of the year. This budgetary conversion has no real impact on the implementation of the social security system itself. The budget has the possibility to deal with social security settlements in the ordinary budgetary procedure and in the treatment of the revised national budget. As others have pointed out, it was precisely in this connection that last autumn the government proposed for Stortinget to increase the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, a proposal that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre would not support. And it was in the same budgetary procedure the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right also agreed to strengthen the economy of lone minimum pensioners by NOK 4000. For an average old-age pension, the social security bill increases by DKK 4600. An increased basic pension for married and cohabiting persons increases approximately NOK 4000 to approx. 650 000 old-age pensioners and unemployed persons, while increasing the pension rate for single minimum pensioners increases by $4 000 to between 70000 and 80000 old-age pensioners. On the basis of the fact that we now have less than 900,000 old-age pensioners and an allocation of the State budget for an old-age pension of over 200 billion. Of course, in 2016, pensioners’ income and income developments are such a big and important issue that it is natural for them to be the subject of debate in the Stortinget. The government has not, with amended budgetary practices, wanted to limit the involvement of the Storting in the social security settlement. Rather, the intention of the changeover was to have a more clear debate on pensioners’ income development by linking pension regulation more directly to the treatment of the government budget, where priorities can also be followed by money through binding decisions in the Stortinget. I record that the question has nevertheless created commitment both in Stortinget and among the pensioners' organisations. However, there is no disagreement that information on such an important matter comes to Stortinget. What we're discussing is when and how the information is to be provided to the Storting. I note that the majority of people want the social security scheme to continue to be promoted as a matter of their own, in the form of a notice to the Stortingen in the autumn, together with the State budget. The previous budget proposals for social security schemes include, inter alia, the following: contained some background material on the regulation and development of the different performances covered by the regulation and the minutes of the discussion meetings with the organisations. This is information which, in my opinion, may be included in a notification submitted in the autumn. I would like to suggest that, from the coming harvest, a separate notification is being promoted to the Stortinget in connection with the submission of the 2017 State budget. This is also very much in line with the government's intention when we proposed to provide the same information in connection with the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3228	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3231	Governments are constantly returning to the budget for 2016, when some minimum pensioners received an increase, where pensioners were allocated a pool of 2.7 billion regardless of income. NOK, where tax cuts were made of SEK 2.2 billion. kr, preferably with the greatest effect for those pensioners who have the best advice – but enough about it. When the government parties with enthusiasm presented their gift package to the pensioners last year, everyone thought this was meant to be a permanent increase in the level of the minimum pensioners and pensioners. Now we feel that this is being drawn into the discussion on social security. So I'd like to ask the Council of State to clarify whether it's been the plan all along that one would produce the year's social security bill as going in plus because one has raised the level of pensions for some. And an additional question: what about those who haven't had their pensions raised and no tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3240	There is no doubt that the purchasing power of pensioners has fallen in 2015 and 2016, and that the forecast for purchasing power is also looking so good in 2017. But when we say that the purchasing power of pensioners still seems to be coming out well, and even plus, it's not least because of the other decisions taken in this hall, that go on increasing the basic pension for married and cohabiting people, and also the increase in the minimum pensioners, but also the taxes. We believe that talking about the purchasing power development of pensioners is also part of the big picture. As I mentioned earlier, in another matter last week when this was debated, we also see that the income development of pensioners has improved significantly in recent years. If I remember the number correctly, all over 62 years has improved the economy by more than 5 pst, and that's also part of this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3247	In this debate, the representatives of the government parties have been very concerned with technology, and the chairman of the committee, Mr Kambe, said a few minutes ago that it is important that social security is no longer dealt with in spring, but in budgets, in order to be able to make alternative proposals. I wonder then: in what budget has the government intended that the Storting should make alternative proposals? Are we going to make alternative proposals for the social security scheme that is coming, or are we going to make alternative proposals for the social security scheme that went? In either case, that timing is a little special -- it's quite a long time ahead, and one hasn't started discussions, or it's quite a long time back.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3252	If I remember correctly, there were no budgetary changes in the social security bill either. The social security bill was a proposition in which money was transferred from one budget line to another. If you wanted to increase or change the budgetary aspects, you would have to do so earlier in the revised national budget – or in the State budget, which is the natural place. When we are concerned that it should be dealt with in the context of the budgets, it is precisely because it is also seen in the context of other priorities. That's when you can follow words and you also show that you're willing to give priority. But the actual changes in the budgets are not made in the social security bill itself. You didn't do that before, if I remember correctly. That is what is done in the revised budget or in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3257	Now it is not the money move we are most concerned about. We are most concerned with the political debate, and we note that the majority wants to suffocate that debate at the time when the social security settlement is so far fresher, if you can use such an expression. To a slightly different angle, but at the same time it also touches on the question a little bit of technical or non-technical: the government gave in the questionnaire last Wednesday and in its article here now that the social security settlement is really just a matter that the Storting doesn't need to deal with. How, then, does the Council of State define the content of its right to debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3264	I do not feel that there is anyone in this Chamber who wants – what expression was used by the representative – to choke the debate. On the contrary, my impression is that everyone here is concerned with the debate on the income development of pensioners, and it should also be lacking, both in terms of the income development of pensioners themselves and not least in terms of the importance of the government budget. So there's no disagreement about wanting to have a debate on this. But then it's a reality that, as a result of the pension agreement, where you legislate on how to regulate, the social security bill has changed, in itself, the nature of the social security bill. Now the regulation itself becomes more technical, all the time you want to follow what the Storting decided at the time. But that doesn't mean you can't discuss other questions; you can even discuss that question too. We discussed this issue with the pensioners' organisations, but we had already said, after a review of the regulatory mechanisms, that we wanted to stand firm on what the Stortning decided in connection with the pension settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3271	The majority today ask for a notification of the social security scheme to be submitted for the autumn, and the Council of State has also confirmed in its statement that such a notification should be made. Then I wonder: What effect does the Council of State see that such a message should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3276	As far as I can see from the discussion that's in the setting, there's no majority who want a proposition, that is. a document on which to grant money. It says to present a case, but not that it should be a proposition. Now we see what the message we're going to present is going to look like. We were initially going to put this information in the hands of the state budget. However, the Communication will of course discuss different aspects of pensioners' income development, taxes and other relevant issues, the protocols from social security discussions and other relevant information. And then the Storting will deal with the message as the Storting will deal with the kind of messages, and to the extent that the Storting believes that other priorities or other decisions or assumptions should be made, the Storting is free to do so in the handling of the notification, but not least in the context of the state budget, where the money is granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3283	One question is to see things in the context and to see just social security settled as a matter of course. A discussion that naturally arises when we see that the purchasing power of the pensioners is weakened for the second consecutive year, and that the government's forecast indicates that it will happen in the next few years, is what exceptions can be made to the pension agreement. Then I think about what ‘special relationships’ are going to be to be able to ignore the mathematical calculation to which it is referred as the reason for a decrease in purchasing power in the settlements that have been and those that are to come. Then I wonder if the Council of State believes that ‘special relations’ are a political assessment and what assessments she makes of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3288	‘Special conditions’ relate exclusively to the actual calculation of the wage increase to be used in the regulation. The last time this was used was in 2002. With regard to the point of purchasing power, it is right that purchasing power is now falling. It is linked to the demanding situation we see in the labour market, where employees too now have to bear a high cost of having a very moderate wage development, not to say a fall for many. In many ways, what we now see is the first drop in the rate of pension reform. That's the first time we've met the challenges of the conciliation, and that's now we can test out for the first time if we can also stand by what you decided to do. Pensions have had a very good development thanks to good years for employees and thanks to this regulation, which has also provided better pay developments for pensioners than they would otherwise have had. Now it is demanding for employees, and then the consequence is that it is also demanding for pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3298	The system of consultations between the State and the pensioners’ organisations has provided good results for the involvement of the pensioners’ organisations, combined with the decision of the Stortinget. The time of treatment in the spring for social security settlement is important, as I said, for the whole of the economic distribution policy. It is the central distribution policy, and the use of budgetary techniques must not be a cover for changing realities. Moving this to the harvest is perceived by many as a sandflake, which the representative Rotevatn was also in. My question is simply: Does the government work to shift the processing of multiple income statements to the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3307	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3312	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3317	There has been a lot of talk about technique in this case, and I will be allowed to congratulate the person who has been able to line up the representative of Wiborg since last year. Then there was not so much talk about technique. The Right Party and the Advance Party now consider that it is not necessary for the Storting to treat the social security scheme in the usual way. Last year they meant the opposite. Now they think it is enough to deal with it in the form of a message. I recall the Pensioners' Association, which in the 2016 budget consultation said that the new budgetary practice would, in reality, undermine the right to debate. The right to discuss is broken down in the pension agreement, and the Workers' Party remains committed to this. The right to debate shall be effective. These include: the possibility of discussing the existence of specific circumstances which should be taken into account. The council did not answer my question about what she thinks is in the organisations' right to discuss. The Council of State now believes that ‘special circumstances’ are different from the fact that settlement goes down for the second consecutive year. Last year, the Progress Party believed that one minus settlement was typical of such ‘specialities’, this year they believe the opposite. I wonder what they will think of next year, if the same thing happens for the third time, as the government has predicted, or in 2018, if it happens for the fourth time, especially if we have in the meantime had a change of government and the Progress Party is back in opposition. Then we can get a new and interesting turn in this debate. With regard to the outcome of the settlement, the Workers' Party is concerned that we should not create false expectations that this year's social security settlement would be different in government. We don't know that, and then we're going to be so honest and say it clearly. But we are concerned that the promises of the Storing are to be kept. The pension agreement says that current pensions are to be regulated with an average of wage and price increases, and that a chosen for the sake of simplification a technical solution for wage development minus 0.75 pst., well aware that this could lead to a negative purchasing power development for pensioners in years where employees got a plus of less than 0.75 pst., but based on historical figures, this risk was considered to be too unlikely. Now, however, in 2015 and 2016, the government thinks it will happen in 2017 and 2018. But once again, in the RNB, the fact of withdrawing tax cuts and pension changes is camouflaged. In good Norwegian, we would like to give it away and take it back again. The distribution effects are further camouflaged by describing them by means of an average pensioner — who it is now. It only shows how necessary it is for social security schemes to be presented to the Stortinget, because the basis we have now been given in the RNB to discuss social security settlements does not tell us anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3328	Let me start by saying, as the representative of the City of Rop, that we are at the pension agreement and are ready to defend it and follow it up. This case is not about it. The representative, Ropstad, said that it could sometimes be difficult to defend and explain. That is precisely why I am very disappointed that we are no longer going to treat the social security settlement as a matter of its own in the future, because the former councillor Eriksson said that the social security settlement was to be presented as before, and the majority said last year, as they justified moving accounts, that there would be no change or impact on the implementation of the social security settlement. When the government now chooses, without it having been said clearly and specifically ever before, to drop a separate case of social security, I understand that the pensioners' organizations feel cheated. Indeed, it is, and has been up to now, a substantial part of the social security system that a separate case is submitted for approval in the Stortingen, where consultations are held, where their opinions can be expressed and we get a case in connection with the social security system. Just for the sake of order, so that the representative Wiborg does not abuse the fact that there is a comment that we do not agree with, that there is a matter to be put forward in the context of the 2016 state budget – you often tend to twist and twist things like that – I can only say that we do not have anything against it. So we have not voted against it – otherwise it will not be voted on either. That's not the point. The point is that there is no answer to the need to have a real discussion about social security when it happens. I would have understood if the council had been honest and said that it was important for the government to avoid the political game that was associated with last year's treatment of social security. Then there came out a strategy note that was about you not getting anything in Stortinget, but all parties other than the Advance Party were to be blamed. It wasn't worth it. However, it cannot be used as a pretext not to have a respectful way of discussing social security settlements, to stand upright and answer questions from the many, not only pensioners, but many more covered by social security settlements. What is said to be a case in the autumn becomes a fig leaf, because we will not have a discussion of the social security settlement once it is actually completed, with approval in Stortinget. That's what we think we're sorry, and I think it's especially because I want to stand by the agreement many parties have on pension settlement and pension reform, but then we get to play with open cards and not change the rules along the way. I understand that the pensioners' organizations feel that they have now been exposed to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3339	I am not going to accuse the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, of not having read the matter we are dealing with today, and the vote, but when he says from this speaker that you drop the matter of social security settlement, it is directly wrong. If you go in and see what the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party do in this case, it's that we commit ourselves to getting our own case on the social security settlement every single harvest, so that the Storting should be free to discuss the settlement and add any leads, if the Storing wishes. I also think it is special that Andersen's representative is talking about games. What this is about is the country's pensioners' economy, but I understand that Andersen's representative wants to camouflage the Labour Party's policy, or cut policy, towards the country's pensioners. Then the representative Lise Christoffersen was also up here with a powerful attack on the Progress Party. She took up the right to talk. I must then remind the representative Lise Christoffersen that it was the Workers' Party that removed the right to negotiate for the country's pensioners. The party of progress disagreed with it, but Lise Christoffersen and the Workers' Party were in favour of it. Several of us were on a debate under the leadership of the Pensioners Association yesterday, and when we heard what was said there, and here in the Chamber today, I am at least glad that the Workers' Party is now honest that the Workers' Party does not want to give the pensioners more – for that is correct, if you go in and see how the Workers' Party has actually voted in this Chamber in several cases. The reality is that the Workers' Party wants to give pensioners less than what this government does and has done. The working party was strongly opposed to reducing the shortening of married and cohabiting pensioners. The working party now wants to send a bill of NOK 8 000 in a smaller pension to married and cohabiting pensioners. It seems that the Progress Party is unreasonable. The Labour Party wants to increase the tax burden on its pensioners. It seems that the Progress Party is unreasonable. But that's probably why the Workers' Party now wants to camouflage the whole debate instead of discussing the facts of the matter, and that's why we have a government that has strengthened the pensioners' economy. We're going to keep doing that, and we're also going to fight against the Workers' Party's proposal and want to cut the pensioners' economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3346	Reality is probably what the Council of State said, namely, that pensioners now for the second consecutive year have reduced purchasing power, and that it is likely that this will be the case for the next year as well. Then the question is whether that's what the Storting wants in the future. Lise Christoffersen was in the history of his post, and I can confirm everything she said in her post that there were major debates around this. The insurance then, and the basis for Storting’s treatment, was that it was assumed that what has now happened would not happen – and at least not often. And then it happens. That is the question of whether there are no ‘specialities’. That is the reality of what we are now discussing. SV believes that this should be discussed. The other matter, if you want to make a social security bill for Stortinget as usual, I assumed it was seaworthy. I have to admit that I was so surprised that I didn't think it was true that it came as it did, and that it was to be hidden away among other things, because it is just a big and important matter that concerns many, and because the result of the social security settlement now has much more in it by the system, even more than before. That means that we, who are going to adopt this, must also be willing to look at it when it comes. There is no doubt that this is a consequence of the social security system adopted. The problem is when it turns out a different way than what was intentional. I think the Storting must seriously discuss it, because it could mean, if it continues, that the happy development we've seen for the pensioners in recent years, that fewer and fewer pensioners are in the statistics of the poor, will turn around. I don't think the Stortinget wants us to have more poor pensioners in the country. There's got to be a big message for the fall. I do not know how it can affect the concrete pension settlement that is due to spring. It could be that you put in some basic leads that, if this happens one, two or three years of advice, you're going to deal with it differently. But the figures, the technical basis on which the social security scheme is based, are not available at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3359	I find it difficult to leave the representative of Wiborg's harang undisputed. It's about when you sit with power, you can't sit in peace, point and blame everyone else. It's irresponsible. It was experimentally done last year through a strategy note, to which reference was made, where the Progress Party was to stand at its primary position and blame everyone else. Then it's important to remember this: on whom is the pensioner now losing purchasing power for the second consecutive year? Whose predictions are they saying it's going to happen in the next few years? Who's government is it that doesn't plan to do anything at all, and can't even answer what should be special, good and special reasons to ignore a purely mathematical understanding of a political reform? This is the Government of the Progress Party. It is at the post of the Progress Party pensioners who lose purchasing power. It's okay to lose, but then you get to take the responsibility of being part of a majority, and stand on a political basis instead of pushing and hitting the air in the 'hidden and shotgun' and sitting in peace while you blame others. I also remind you that the starting point for this case was that the social security settlement should not be discussed as a matter of its own before after the 2017 elections, because it was not a big deal when we presented our proposal. There was then no clear consensus on the importance of the matter and the understanding that the social security settlement must of course enter the country's main assembly and be discussed in the Stortinget. There's an understanding that we've been involved in keeping the government parties, including the Progress Party, on, and a considerable pressure from the country's pensioners was needed for that understanding to come up. When you owe others, it might be a good idea to see where you stand. It's not always blame is more exciting than truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3368	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3374	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3381	Before we start voting on case no. 1, I give the word to Marit Nybakk, then to Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3384	I would recommend the Labour Party Group to support the vote, but in addition – in the light of the debate we have had on the matter today, and I wanted the Stortinget to be as united as possible in a matter like this – also recommend the Workers' Party to vote in favour of SV's proposal No. 4, so that it is possible to arrive at an aggregate balance sheet point in terms of how best to ensure practical transparency about corporate interests to be recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3389	In the same way as the Workers' Party, the Right-wing Group shall also support the suspension, but in addition support proposal No. 4 from SV. The background is that during the debate on the matter, we understand that the intention of the proposal is to conduct an investigation with a view to finding a tangible and demarcatable starting point for registration obligations, i.e. for indirect ownership. This seems to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3394	I would also recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote in favour of the vote and proposal No. 4 from SV, so that you can take the job into consideration what is practically possible to get into connection with the register system for future solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3399	Then all the recommendations should be made, and we can go to voting. In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The Presidency had cancelled:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3478	Alternatively, the suspension of the presidency shall be counted against the third paragraph of Section 3 and Section 7 and the proposals shall be replaced by the following: 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The third paragraph of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following: All claims giving compensation of more than NOK 2000 shall be declared separately.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘§ 7 shall be replaced by the following: the name of companies, organisations, institutions or individuals providing financial support or remuneration to the representative concerned, including material benefits, secretarial assistance, etc., and which are in addition to the funds provided by the Storting. All records are indicated separately and by amounts.’;» The Central Party, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the Socialist Left proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3505	Alternatively, there is a vote between the presidency's suspension of I § 9 and proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 9 is replaced by the following: Company interests which it holds either directly or indirectly through another company. [[shares, shares, etc.]] The name and form of liability of the company are indicated. Dividends of the interests of companies are not disclosed. Company interests indirectly held by an investment company shall also be reported. Shareholdings or other unit trusts are not disclosed.’; The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Environment Party The Greens have announced that they are voting in favour of the proposal of the Socialist Left. The voting boards showed that 84 votes had been cast in favour of the presidential election and 20 votes in favour of the Socialist Left. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.14.08]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3525	President! I voted incorrectly, I had to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3530	There are then 83 votes in favour of the presidency's position and 21 votes in favour of the proposal by the Socialist Left. There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The vote will ask the Presidency to come back with proposals for amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the register of the duties and financial interests of the EEAS, ensuring that all company interests, irrespective of their value, are entered in this register.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Environment Party The Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Christian People's Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3546	A vote is taken on the presidency's position on the rest of the I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3577	During the debate, a proposal was put forward from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decrease agrees to the following compensations being determined with effect from 1 May 2016: Stortingsrepresentatives kr 894 736 per year Government members kr 1,268 510 per year Prime Minister kr 1,557 110 per year’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Presidency had cancelled: The size consents to the following remunerations being determined with effect from 1 May 2016: SEK 906 928 per yearGovernment members NOK 1 294 216 per yearState Minister SEK 1 593 242 per year
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3634	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Grande on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Law on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3759	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3768	Law decisions will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3775	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 5, from the left, is a transmission proposal, and reads: ‘It is recommended that the government examine the amendment of the marketing law in the provision on good marketing practice, Section 2 of the Marketing Act, which specifies that the advertiser shall ensure that the advertising does not show an unrealistic or unhealthy ideal of beauty, inter alia by retouching.’ The President will propose that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose a change to the marketing law in the provision on good marketing practice, Section 2 of the Marketing Act, which specifies that advertisers shall ensure that advertising does not show an unrealistic or unhealthy ideal of beauty, inter alia by retouching.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose a amendment to Section 21 of the Marketing Act, which regulates good marketing practices for children, in order to prevent advertising aimed at children in general, and to discourage pressure on young people in particular.» The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3814	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the youth health strategy to propose measures to prevent children and young people from being subjected to body pressure through advertising in general and advertising in public spaces in particular.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal. The left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3830	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for more knowledge of the reasons why children experience body pressure and struggle with poor self-image.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3842	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the youth health strategy to propose measures to prevent children and young people from being subjected to body pressure through advertising.’ The right-wing party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal. Workers' Party, Christian People's Party. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal,
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3871	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the funding of kindergartens, with a view to ensuring that the equivalence of grants between municipal and non-municipal kindergartens requires equivalence in quality and availability requirements.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The voting boards showed that 59 votes were cast against and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.19.11]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3894	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3899	President! My voice was not registered either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3904	President! My voice was not registered either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3909	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e3920	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to continue the scheme of deduction from the parental allowance for children receiving special educational assistance.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4236	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4245	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4252	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 3, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 4 and 5, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Storting to bring the matter before the Government that the responsibility for supervising single-child farms under the Children’s Homes Act as a whole be transferred from the municipality to the county.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4280	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case clarifying the basis for collecting, storing and using personal data. It is underlined that no further documentation, monitoring and measurement of the individual child should be provided.» The right-wing party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4294	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the experience of the economic non-discrimination of municipal and non-municipal kindergartens. The premise that non-discrimination should be economically, in parallel with equal offers is shown, inter alia, by: The ‘nesodden case’ and opening hours are not practised. The same applies, for example: also requirements for human resources, admission of children and the ability of municipalities to create good and common arrangements for transition between kindergarten and school.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4310	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the autumn of 2016, to promote a case for the Stortinget where the government’s work on the standard of living and child care teachers’ standards is being prepared.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4326	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Stortinget to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for the first paragraph of Section 2 of the Kinderhagen Act, which takes account of the possible need for the law to regulate the processing of personal data by the Kinderhagen family, but which in no way facilitates more documentation, monitoring and measurement of the individual child.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4454	The first paragraph of paragraph 2 above the letter A I. During the debate, all parties have announced that they will vote against this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4467	The remainder of A I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4477	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4486	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4506	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 8, by Anette Trettebergstuen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 9, by Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 10-17, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 18-27, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party The President noted that proposal No. 1, by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, during the debate was withdrawn, and proposal No. As a result, 1 is not taken up for voting. There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate a thorough process in which the profession is widely involved in the design of the new kindergarten framework, following the model of the government warning in the Report. St. 28 ‘Fag – Deepening – Understanding’ in relation to the development of curricula at school — a process in which the profession itself is to be given responsibility.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4542	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18, 19, 24 and 26, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to assess the 50 pst requirement of a new crew standard. kindergarten teachers and 25 pst. child workers and youth workers in kindergartens.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for the Nordic kindergarten tradition where development and learning take place through free play, and therefore does not provide day-to-day kindergarten with a clearer school-preparation content in a new framework.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked not to change the distribution of the earmarked State grant for measures to improve language understanding among minority language children of pre-school age. Such funds may not only be allocated to municipalities with many minority languages but are currently distributed by minority language children in kindergarten.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the objective of the Report. St. 19 Public Health Communication to assess a separate law on the working environment of children.’ [[2014-2015]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4575	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government in the framework plan to ensure that both public and private kindergartens use neural in kindergarten schools.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4591	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 to 22, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a new framework plan does not lead to increased requirements for the documentation and monitoring of individual children as part of the educational activities.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide confidence in pedagogues in kindergarten in a new framework plan by making it clear that the pedagogical teacher is central to the choice of educational and methodological tools and that, as a general rule, such choices should be the pedagogical management of the nursery.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked in a new framework plan to strengthen the responsibilities of the nursery in order to ensure that children are able to develop in a good bilingual manner, to enhance the multicultural competence of the kindergarten and to strengthen parents’ right to participation.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4619	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the framework plan makes clearer demands for systematic and formalised cooperation between kindergarten and child protection, so that kindergartens are better informed of concerns in the event of suspected care failure and/or abuse.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4635	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for safe measures that can recruit more men to work in the nursery sector.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal. The left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4649	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to review the competence strategy, to consider strengthening the master’s offer in kindergarten education, and to ensure equal funding for kindergarten teacher training and primary school teacher training in funding categories.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4665	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government to assess the 80 pst requirement in its work on the standard of living for the nursery sector. by all kindergarten staff, they shall have the pediatric competence and that 50 pst. by all kindergarten staff shall have kindergarten education.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4681	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Ministry of Recruitment to the kindergarten sector to strengthen, in particular, the recruitment of men through targeted campaigns and the reward of kindergartens that succeed in recruiting men and ensuring equal opportunities.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4697	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up proposals for amendments to the Children’s Homes Act which ensure that employees in public and private kindergartens are in control of Norwegian language and that employees in Sami kindergartens are in control of Sami language.’; The Greens have given their support to the proposal. This is a sharp hooting. The voting boards showed that 54 votes were cast against and 50 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.28.02]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4711	Has everyone voted correctly? - Then don't think so, so I think we'll cancel the vote and try again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4723	There is a vote on proposal No. 16 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government in its recruitment work to the kindergarten sector, to assess incentives that bring educated kindergarten teachers back to kindergartens, and to increase the recruitment of other disciplines with pediatric competence.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4739	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 17, from the left. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider establishing a qualification programme for unskilled children’. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that children receive age-adapted training on body, identity and emotions, preferably in cooperation with the health centre.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals. Then only the Christian People's Party is expected to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4764	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the grant of measures to improve language understanding among minority language children of pre-school age can also be used to employ native language assistants.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal. Then only the Socialist Left Party is expected to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4782	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to continue the free core-time scheme for 4- and 5-year-olds in the Groruddal districts of Oslo.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4798	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider extending the right to leave from work in connection with kindergarten start.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4814	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that a wide-ranging group of children’s care professionals be set up to revise the childcare framework.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4830	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking not to draw up guidance standards for the linguistic basis that children should have with them from kindergarten.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4846	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Ministry to clarify the objectives of the kindergarten’s work in language and to set targets on how the nursery is to work in the field of play, care and social skills.’ The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4862	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider introducing provisions in the Children’s Homes Act that children are entitled to belong to a children’s group and the size of the children’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how kindergarten can be supported in facilitating good practice.’ All parties have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4892	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4935	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament. 2, by Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for adequate return to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2016 with a concrete action plan covering generic marketing, knowledge-based information and advice on organic farming for farmers and consumers, increased public procurement, increased financial incentives needed and simplification of organic production and processing legislation, in order to achieve the objectives of the Stortinget in 2020.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e4958	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a clear action plan to increase organic food production in Norway for the Stortinget by 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5003	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Michael Tetzschner on behalf of Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law on the amendment of the electoral law, etc. I In Law No 28 June 2002 57 on elections to Stortinget, county councils and local councils, the second paragraph of Section 9-2 shall be replaced by the following: [[optional law]] The Municipal Council may decide for itself that elections shall be held in one or more localities in the municipality also on Sunday before the official election day. The decision must be taken at the latest at the same time as the budget for the year in which the elections are to be held.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5041	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that it is only the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left who vote for the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5054	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5072	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to amend the Ownership Act, where the same parties are given more opportunity to prevent speculative buying-in and conversion of rental/subletting apartments to an irresponsible number of residents.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain the current restriction of the ownership law to the requirement that no one be able to own more than two sections in the same group.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5110	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Frank J. Jenssen on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The division law shall be amended as follows: the third paragraph of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following: the Ministry may provide that the change in the boundaries of an area shall be treated as a limit adjustment, if the area has a smaller proportion of the inhabitants of a municipality or a county to be added to other municipalities or counties following the second subparagraph, point (b).’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5265	First of all, there is a vote on the Committee's position on Paragraph 62(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 and Section 70, new fifth sentence, and Section 17, second paragraph, point (d) and new point (e). The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5278	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on the remainder of I and II and on the remainder of III.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5287	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5296	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5354	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5363	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5370	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to reintroduce the practice of presenting the social security schemes as a matter of its own to the Stortinget as from the social security settlement for 2017.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-07.ana.ud158e5406	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
