ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e93	A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Sonja Mandt from 2 December until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from 5 December to 7 December to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington from representatives Kenneth Svendsen and Ulf Leirstein on leave from 6 December to 9 December and from representatives Anders B. Werp on leave from 6 December to 8 December – all to participate in the Parliamentary Intelligence Security Forum in Washington These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Vestfold County, Steinar Gullvåg, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinge from 2 December to 5 December, under the leave of the representative Sonja Mandt, for reasons of well-being. From the first deputy representative of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Monday 5 December, under the authority of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud counties: Christopher Wand 6-8. December For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen 6-9. ==References====External links== December For the Vestfold counties: Hilde Hoff Håkonsen 2–5. December and Steinar Gullvåg from 6 December until further notice For Eastfold County: Håvard Jensen 6-9. December
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e175	Hilde Hoff Håkonsen is present and will take the seat. From the representative Lene Vågslid, application is made for the period from 7 November to 11 December to be extended until 17 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The product representative Lise Wiik will continue to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e208	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on good and constructive cooperation. [[Rapporteur: Mr van den Broek]] The case includes the reorganisation of criminal services and various changes to other legal provisions. The committee was present, and it was time to get into the matter thoroughly. Thanks to the whole committee for that. I would also like to thank the professional organisations that have been very constructive and positive in their recordings along the way in the process. A society can be measured by how it treats its prisoners. Nelson Mandela should have said this, and several philosophers and writers have pointed out the same thing. Criminal law is important in a legal state. The Labour Party will develop criminal services and has made further proposals in this respect during the current period. The organisation shall support and develop good quality, promote cooperation with other bodies and relatives and develop a content in the service that ensures that criminal justice is humane in its implementation, fair in its practice and predictable and equivalent in its core wall. And this is the frame of the Storting is invited to adopt today. The working party will do its utmost to deal with major reforms. As we did with the police reform, we did with this: we conducted all-day meetings in the regions, visited prisons and free-care offices, listened to employees, prisoners and leaders. Feedback went on again. It also emerged clearly during the consultation: the proposition is too poor a starting point for the reorganisation of criminal justice. The assessments of the working party are: Today's organisational model has not been evaluated. It is therefore difficult to determine where there is a failure or what the failure may be. The proposition does not reveal how the proposed changes underpin the objectives. The proposed reorganisation involves a shift of authority level from local to regional/central level, without demonstrating the benefits. The economic calculations are absent. The working party called for the efficiencies to be the basis for the wish for reform. The answer we received did not give a response. No account has been taken of what in today's model makes it impossible to achieve the objectives. This could have been answered by an evaluation. The working party joins the objectives of the proposition – except those relating to the cooperation agreement between the civil parties. Criminal services shall cooperate well with other bodies, such as the police, the Nav and the hospital, as far as possible, seamless criminal execution for the prisoners, quality of rehabilitation, and relatives and volunteers shall be active participants in such activities. Report. St. 37 for 2007-2008 was forward-looking and professionally justified and was widely endorsed. The Labour Party will further develop it and implement the proposals on the content and changes in criminal implementation that we have promoted during this period. These point forward and ensure quality, non-discrimination and legal certainty as supporting pillars of criminal justice. To move on, we want to start with a proper evaluation of today's organisation. We noted that during the Question Time on Wednesday, the Council of State said that he was more concerned with results than with prestige. We therefore hope that the Council of State can signal its agreement to the proposal for the evaluation of criminal justice. Understanding the tripartite cooperation is different in the government and in the Workers' Party. The government has meetings and listens, but in disagreement it does as it pleases, as in this matter. We will vote against provisions relating to organisation, we will vote in favour of other proposals in theproposition, and we have a loose proposal together with the Senterpartiet where the Stortinget asks for an evaluation of the criminal justice system to be carried out, which I am referring to here. Then I have to correct errors in the setting as to what we are voting for, and what we are voting against. First, a small typographical error: In the note to the Workers' Party and the Centre Party on page 6 of the setting, reference is made to section 58. That's §56. The Labour Party will further vote against § 1, § 20, § 29, § 30, § 58, second paragraph, first sentence and § 58, third paragraph, third sentence. In doing so, I take up the proposals for decisions that the Workers' Party has together with the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e264	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e269	I have done the big one and forgot the glasses, so I have to get some extra time. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good account of the matter and the Cooperation Committee. I also thank you for all the good recordings that have come from outside in this matter. As the rapporteur has explained, this concerns the reorganisation of criminal services – a reorganisation which unfortunately is not supported by the majority of the committee. One might wonder who is best cared for when one is opposed to a proposition like this from the government. The Government's proposal on reorganisation is proposed to strengthen the quality of the local level, where the sentence is put at the centre. Now, of course, I have great confidence in my government, but the proposal by the government is based on a report by the Directorate of Criminal Affairs. This report has been out for consultation, and the model proposed has been welcomed by most. There are challenges in the criminal justice system today, and the Directorate-General for Criminal Affairs' own figures show that they are calculating to save some money. Twenty million. kr with the reorganisation – money that is intrusive and that could give better conditions for both prisoners and not least for employees. I record that the majority sees this as a shift of authority from local to regional/central level. To me, this is incomprehensible. When you move power from regional level to local level, at least I think it's a shift of authority closer to the prisoner. I believe it is right to bring free care and criminal care into a local unit in order to exploit the competence and to have a better holistic approach around the convicted person. What's being moved to the central level, i.e. to the Directorate, mainly appeal proceedings and work on strategy and coordination. If this proposition had been given a majority, the new organisation would provide the basis for a more clear division of responsibilities and tasks. The aim is to achieve a more consistent practice in prisons, and the model will provide greater similarity in the management of practices and practices — and not least in understanding legislation. Today, many small entities do not have their own lawyers to deal with individual cases. In the new model, local level will have legal competence as units become larger. It contributes to increased legal certainty for prisoners in Norwegian prisons. Not least, I believe that focusing on the prisoner should have the highest priority. When free time services and prisons are joined in a more formalised way, the staff from prison and free time care, with their various professional competences, will be able to see the prisoner in a larger overall picture. It is the local unit that is responsible for the execution of the sentence, but also for clarifying the prisoner to a life after an end of atonement. Both the Professional Association of Crimea and the Court of Justice were clear in their hearing opinions that this proposal is correct and necessary. Yes, formerly inmate Michael Mateos of the Court said so well: Get rid of the regions – they have nothing to do with the convicted. Otherwise, the government is criticised by the Workers' Party and the Centre for the centralisation of jobs. Where in the world are those politicians today? Out of the 100 posts in regional offices today, 60 posts will be transferred to the new local units. For Nord-Norges part, there are five posts moving from south to Bodø, and five to Tromsø. Maybe that doesn't mean that much? We see that Norwegian criminal justice in many areas is sparsely worn out. We have a large maintenance run in Norwegian prisons, and we are constantly hearing about an increase in the number of violent arrests among prisoners and employees. The government is doing a lot both by renovating and building new prisons and by improving the conditions of the criminal justice system as much as possible. But here the government has made a concrete proposal to improve Norwegian criminal justice, and since we do not get a majority, we are unfortunately back to the beginning of this matter. Furthermore, I take up the minority proposals from the Right and the Advance Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e297	The representative Margunn Ebbesen has taken up the suggestions she referred to, completely without glasses. It went fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e302	I also do not wear glasses for safety – just as I have been told – and without a script. Policy is about setting policy objectives and achieving the same objectives. Today’s government had as one of its most important things to combat the atoning queue – the atoning queue has been an ongoing problem in Norway for a long, long time – and it has been done by thinking untraditionally, looking at new ways of doing things, and it has actually also succeeded in creating new opportunities, new solutions. Standing in the queue is probably one of the most tiring things that is. A person who has committed crime wants to settle, get finished and move on. It affects his family – or her for that matter – to those degrees, but perhaps most of all it affects the victims of crime. That is why the government has been fighting and doing something with it, so that it is now considered to be in practice zero. It bears witness to the power of action. In order to continue in that direction, there is also a need to take other organizational steps. The proposition under consideration today is just such a grip. You want to move things closer to the prisoners, and I think it's timely from this pulpit to boast of those who work in Norwegian prison, those who work in criminal custody, those who work in daily service and seek to contribute, so that the convicted people get out of a life of crime and back to their everyday lives and become good taxpayers, like us. That would be super. But once again, you have to dry to do things, and the government is doing it now. By just moving resources from regional level to local prisons, you can become more ‘hands-on’ — literally. In addition, as the previous representative said, when jobs are moved from south to north, it must be good – there can be no doubt about it. But again, politics is about making changes because it is believed that it should be useful and serve the totality of it. Then you can be restrained and say that things are going too fast, it's happening too quickly, you don't have enough basis for it, but in my eyes, politics is about action, the power to challenge, the power to act to be clear on the goals you've set yourself. That's what the government does in this case, and it should be supported, and in that way I think it's odd that the majority chooses to go another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e315	I will initially admit that I think this has been a demanding matter, and the matter has taken a long time. That is why we have also spent a lot of time and had discussions and many conversations about the matter. It actually started with last year's budget, where, after much resistance to the reorganisation, we chose to write notes into the budget that turned out to have a majority in the Stortinge afterwards, about resistance to a change from a three-level to a two-level model. When we saw, however, that the proposition was promoted, I will be the first to say that I have registered that there has been a change in the matter and in the government's argument, because when one started the matter, we felt that the point was savings and efficiency and part of the government's desire to debureaucratise. Now a clearer focus is focused on better criminal justice and better criminal enforcement, and I think that is also what the government parties want. We went into the matter heavily and took good time, but the hearing in the committee showed that there was still a great deal of opposition to the proposal. For the Christian People's Party, there are several things that have been crucial for us to go against. Firstly, we believe that today's three-level model works well, it produces efficiently, it makes faster decisions, and that is why we believe it can be continued. Secondly, when you are going to make such a change, as the rapporteur also said, you should at least have evaluated it in order to establish whether today's model is not working. Why should a fix on something that works well today? We're also sceptical about the creation of 14 new units of, as they say, a minimum of 7 employees. We're afraid that the consequences of this could be that it's fast escalating, that there'll be more employees in those units, instead of using the employees to get in touch with the prisoners and contribute to rehabilitation. We also believe that the insatiableness of the government, the coordination between the various prisons, between prison and free care, is fully possible within today's model, and therefore I would urge the government to continue working with the ideas to strengthen the cooperation that must work well. That is why we have the country that we have done, but I see in the statement that in the case of III, in the case of the law on the enforcement of penalties, we have the right to support the removal of the fourth sentence of the third paragraph of Section 29 and the change in the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 58 and in the third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 58. As I understand those changes, they will also affect the reorganisation, which we're going to oppose, so we're going to vote against change in the two paragraphs. The Labour Party says that there is also a loose proposal, which I think is sensible, namely to take the evaluation we are asking for. If there are things that can be improved, we are of course looking at it, and we are also going to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e329	We in the Central Party are concerned that people throughout the country should have access to good public services, and we do not believe in the same way as the Government Party that centralization is the solution to almost any real or alleged problem. The government's proposal to reorganize criminal services once again shows that they like to centralize their own debt for centralisation. In this case, similar to many other cases, they have first concluded that something has to be merged, and then they have tried to find the arguments afterwards. That is not the way we can do it, and I am glad that the majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs agrees that the reorganization of criminal services is such a weak reason that it must be rejected. The last comprehensive reform in criminal justice was in 2001, when regions were created. Prior to this, criminal services were organised in two stages: the Departments of the Ministry of Justice and the local level. This was known as a tongue-red and unlucky model, which led to a long process. The creation of regions was considered to be a special success, and in 2013 the tasks of the department were transferred to an own directory. Now the government will once again change its structure to two levels. They do this despite the fact that the late last fall, a significant bulk of the population, made it clear that today’s system is working well, and despite the fact that trade unions and employers have been strongly critical of the presentation. The rule indicates that the device model they want was the preferred one between the hearing instances. Yeah, that's right. After all, the Court of First Instance did not have a suitable position for today's model, but it had to choose between two new models. Several hearing bodies made it clear that they lack an evaluation of today’s model, but such an evaluation has not found it necessary for the government to carry out once they have worked on their new centralisation project. If we are to improve the quality of criminal services – which should be the first priority – it is, in my view, absolutely fundamental to know the strengths and weaknesses of the existing model. Presenting a reorganization plan without having evaluated today's model makes it clear that the government's submission is not intended primarily to address any shortcomings or build on what works well today. When this isn't the goal, it's hard to believe that it's magic. I don't want a top-heavy diet in Norway. We know that this brings with it greater bureaucracy and greater distance between the rental and the additions that carry out the tasks in the first line, as well as other economies of scale. The unit model was described in the proposition as a pure-bred two-level model, but it seems that one defines the regions instead. By combining the prison and voluntary care path in 14 unit administrations, one will in practice create mini-regions, even if the government does not use this name itself. It's worth noting what LO said in the earring. They said that in practice it is the local level that is being lowered, not the regional level. The trade unions made it clear that the reorganisation would lead to centralisation and more bureaucracy. They indicated that the Directorate of the New Profit Realisation Plan on the organisation of criminal services from 16 March this year says that the unit level in total will have at least as many added to it as the regional level we have today. In addition, the Directorate shall grow by 38 years of work — also referred to as 40 — in order to manage the unit model. It was also pointed out that the new model will create greater distances between decision-makers and those implementing the decisions. Visible and close to the lead will be absent. The proposed resource saving, which is the basis for the reorganisation, is also not real. So there are several reasons why I don't think there is a need for a comprehensive reorganization of criminal services in Norway. The reorganisation requires both human and economic resources. Prisons are heavily understaffed because of the poor economy, which goes beyond the security of those added, who are increasingly experiencing more power and threats from the insertions. What we need to use resources is not enough of an unnecessary structural reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e347	The central party will inform us that we will also support – or we are behind, together with the Labour Party – to look at and evaluate the criminal justice system. It's not because we want to go in for a reorganization, but to look at how to strengthen and develop today's model. We need to strengthen the good criminal services we have, and make sure they're added to prisons are safer at work. Not least, we need to ensure that they can be added to prisons in line with the politically agreed targets for the implementation of the penalty. The centre party goes against the government and hopes the majority of Stortinget hasn't turned around in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e350	Like the representative Ellingsen, I would like to pay tribute to the people in the criminal service, who every day go to work and do a really great and good job for the prisoners. One of the coolest things about traveling around and visiting different prisons is that one looks at employees who burn for the job they do, who care and feel responsible for the prisoners, so that they can get out of prison and be functioning and good citizens. This is a matter that has been demanding, and it is a matter that has been going on for a long time. I have a great deal of understanding for the staff in criminal care, who now say that we need a decision, for constantly living under a reorganization pressure and an insecurity around the organization is quite demanding in everyday life. So I'm glad that we now get this case, and that at least it's decided, even if everyone doesn't think it ends up the way they hoped it would. But the feedback we get is shared, and that's one of the things that is demanding about this case. I don't have any trouble understanding the intentions of the Council of State, and I don't want the Council of State to want this organization because he thinks it's the best thing for the police. At the same time, we get quite clear feedback from the employees, who are a little confused about this two-tier model, because they feel that it works well today, and because they do not feel that it is proven that it will be more efficient, less bureaucracy, and that they will still have the short way to the decisions if we do a reorganisation. What has been crucial for us when we have assessed this matter is obviously also all the feedback we have received, but above all that we see no overriding reason to do this reorganisation. Several have indicated that it has not been evaluated. I don't know if I want to say that it hasn't been evaluated, but at least it's pretty clear that you don't experience the evaluations that have been, as thorough enough, in the sense that you haven't seen whether the things you want to achieve can also be achieved through today's organization. I want to say that it has been a demanding and difficult matter, but at least we have the country that we do not want to support the reorganisation. This will mean that, like the Christian People's Party, we will not vote in favour of the Committee's suspension in respect of the fourth sentence of Section III, the third paragraph of Section 29, which states that it is repealed, or for the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 58 and the third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 58. When it comes to solving the proposal, from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, I think it seems to be a good proposal, not necessarily because you want a reorganisation, but because there may be a need to evaluate properly and look at the possibilities that lie within today's model. And should there be significant weaknesses in it, an evaluation will well be able to show it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e363	Crime is a very important and often underestimated institution in our society. She is very important for those who have committed crime, for their ability to make up for themselves, move on and come back to society. But there is still reason to stress that perhaps it is an important institution for society. A society capable of preventing the future crime of those who have been committed once, capable of using their human resources for constructive and positive things, will have great potential to be a better society than a society that does not. That's why having good criminal care is an important quality feature of society. SV is more than willing to look at how we organise criminal services, can be done better than today. Once I have gone into the material and this case, we conclude, for our part, from the SV side, that we will vote against the reorganisation, based on a series of reasons. The most important and central reason is that we cannot see that a new and thorough external evaluation has been carried out, an assessment of the weaknesses of the model we have today, and a corresponding thorough review and quality assurance of any benefits of the reorganisation proposed. Reorganising an agency is to expose it to significant changes, where over unknown time an additional costs, major challenges, skills needs, etc. are likely to be incurred. - before you can pick up the winnings. My experience is at least that one should feel very convinced about the problems of the model that one has, and the gains of the one that one suggests, before a set of these starts. And we can't see that this is thoroughly and well done for in this work. That is why we are also going to support what I see as a constructive proposal in the Chamber now from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 5, to carry out a thorough evaluation. And so it is that when you move authority levels from local to central, it can lead to a greater distance between the rental and the addition, and you can't ignore the fact that it will lead to the opposite of what's meant here, more bureaucracy. We are also concerned that the model of organisation proposed can weaken free care and social work. Due to the reorganisation, the two-tier model, in which regions have operated in control, there are also control mechanisms that would now be left to the local level and they should be reported up to the Directorate. I want to say that at least there is no strengthening of the legal certainty side of it. My response to the estimated savings requirement of 20 million. kr is that this is not a very large potential savings, so one should at least be very sure that it is done well for. Experience shows that reorganizations have to take a height for a significant insecurity, and I don't think it's done well enough for where to get the savings in the proposed model. So that's why we're going to go against the proposal, and so are we. We will further support I–IV, except that we will vote against Penal Enforcement Act III § 1 new second paragraph, § 20 new second paragraph, § 30 third paragraph new third sentence and § 58 second paragraph first sentence and § 58 third paragraph third sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e387	I will also be allowed to take the opportunity to thank both the Committee and the rapporteur for having carried out a comprehensive work on a very important matter, although I am sincerely saddened by the conclusion of the majority, because in my opinion it is mainly the prisoners and the employees who are affected that we are not getting the quality promise that this reform would actually be. There are several who have said that the need for reorganisation is not likely and that there is strong resistance among employees. I would like to stress that there has been a comprehensive process both in the criminal services themselves and in the ministry to reach the conclusions we have reached, and it is not right that the employees are opposed. In fact, there is one employee organisation that is opposed, and there is another employee organisation that is in favour. So that image is considerably more nuanced than that one might get the impression now. In addition, an external evaluation has been carried out under the red-green government in 2008, which pointed to some of the challenges that the three-level model actually poses. It then focused in particular on the challenges it posed in relation to legal certainty and consistent practices across regions. This concerns, among other things: on the handling of complaints and the uniform exercise of the rights of prisoners, and I believe that there is reason to be aware of that. For, in addition to quality and non-discrimination, legal certainty shall be a supporting pillar for the criminal justice we have, and the organisation should support this as well as possible. I believe that the reform we have proposed is a sort of win-win situation by being able to get a more effective organisation that actually brings management closer to prisons, no longer away, because you remove an intermediary, you remove the region, so you get a more direct governance dialogue between the Crime and Detention Directorates. So I think there's a little bit of a strange argument associated with a fear of a greater distance. In fact, the intention is the opposite. In addition, in the vote by the majority, a point has been made that this will be a centralisation. We don't see it that way, we see it quite the opposite – there are about 100 annual works to be distributed, of which 60 will go out to the units, while approximately 60 will go out to the units. 40 will deal with the central strategic follow-up and the review process. Moving resource use from the region to local units I think can hardly be a centralization. Then there's a question of the degree to which centralization is going to be transferred to 40 year's work to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, the KDI. I believe it is not a centralisation reform, but it records that we disagree on it. I agree with the committee when it refers to the criminal services in Denmark. It is also referred to in the proposition. A two-tier model was established in 2014 to provide joint management and administration for merged prisons and voluntary care offices. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare is the Board of Appeal and the direct guideline to the local level. It's roughly equal to the model that the government is proposing in this proposition. In my opinion, it is important to equip the criminal services to meet the challenges we are now facing. It's e.g. a situation where reconciliation is a challenge. It is a challenge related to the room for e.g. programme activities and other activities of criminal services. The Committee has been very concerned for a very long time. This reform would contribute to both strengthening content through the release of resources and achieving a more consistent and good practice and implementation of remuneration. I'm a little surprised at the committee's conclusion, but I also understand that one has some kind of natural resistance to change. That is not unusual, so I am very pleased with what I experience as a very constructive proposal from the Labour Party in the Chamber today, asking for a new evaluation and review. It opens at least because one does not put this in the drawer, but that one will have a better basis on which one can go further. I feel that is a constructive and good approach. This is good, and it could provide a basis for a return to Stortinget at a later stage in the follow-up to such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e405	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e410	I thought it was a line to the minister, but it obviously wasn't. I really just want to give an explanation of vote on the proposal from the Labour Party and the Senter Party. The Right Party and the Progressive Party want to support the proposal, we think it is a good and constructive proposal to consider the matter, if necessary, after an evaluation. But I can't really believe we were talking about district policy and centralisation. Here there are actually ten posts coming to North Norway. In many other contexts, North Norway is referred to as a district, but obviously we are not a district, and we could get ten new posts to North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e419	This proposal by the Right-front Party Government on the reorganisation of criminal services responds to a question that no one has asked. The questions that have been asked, however, when it comes to criminal services, are how to secure enough money for them to have a defensive operation. The government has not answered that question. They've reduced the funds to criminal services. The working party has proposed more money in its alternative budget to ensure better quality and more content in work. The other question that has also been asked in connection with the work of criminal services, especially from those who add themselves, is how they can ensure a good enough content in the criminal execution, how they can implement what is said in St.meld. 37 for 2007–08, as the previous government presented, and to which there was broad support in the Stortinget. The Labour Party has followed up on the proposal for a representative in this Chamber, which has been voted down. A third question raised by criminal services is how they can ensure that more skilled people are involved in the implementation of criminal sanctions. This government has not responded, they have not secured enough money, they do not secure enough frames, and they do not guarantee that they can add more professionals. The Labour Party has followed up on the proposal for a representative in this Chamber. A fourth question that has been raised repeatedly, not least in the public debate, is how those appointed in criminal matters can be safeguarded and protected against threats and violence in their everyday lives. They have asked for service numbers, so that they can at least get little protection in the demanding everyday life in which they stand. It has so far rejected this government – the Labour Party is too. In other words, the Right-front party government answers questions that are not asked, by proposing a non-wanted reorganisation that is not well anchored enough, is not sufficiently elaborated. So they don't answer the central questions for criminal services, so that the execution can actually lead to people who do criminal acts, end up in prison, or have to execute punishment, being less criminals when they get to the other end than what they were when they were first convicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e430	It went a little fast for a poor southern landing as there was a chance to take a line, so I pressed the wrong button. But I'll bring the line here, so the council can choose whether to answer it or not. The Minister of Justice has now cut 68 million. kr in the establishment, cut resulting from the cooperation agreement in order to improve the efficiency of the public sector and reduce the number of bureaucrats. The last thing we can have fun with, but it's actually pretty serious. The Minister does not follow the consequences of the cuts, but we know that the image of violence and threats is increasing, that programmes are being removed and that rehabilitation is becoming difficult. St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08 is crumbling, and the Minister’s statement that he is behind it is no longer a believer. The government is taking the criminal code in the wrong direction. The Workers' Party has invested funds in its annual budgets for operational resources but has been downgraded by the Government Parties. In this reform, the Minister estimates that he can save another 20-30 million. kr over a few years. When is enough, and how much is the minister willing to cut? Is there a pain limit, and where does it lie, if so? Some of the reasons for the reorganisation are linked to the cooperation agreement to streamline the public sector. Now it's a little uncertain what kind of value the cooperation agreement has today, but in the proposition it's referred to this. In order to improve the effectiveness of criminal justice, the government has introduced a red tape and efficiency reform, but nobody knows if it works. I refer from the answers given by the Council of State: however, the reform is not followed up by a reporting system, and we cannot establish the direct effects of the measures implemented. For the period 2014-2015, the cut is 68 million. kr. So to the representatives from North Norway: if they are engaged in positions, there are free means of operation that cause difficulties on the job front. I would also like to make a few comments on the need for broad support for important reforms. The Council of State itself has pointed to this as an important reform, but we note that in the matter of placing prison places in the Netherlands, the Left withdrew, in the work on the police reform at Stortinget the Christian People's Party withdrew, and in the work on this reform the minister does not have the support of any party. The experience we have with the Minister's financial management is that he is now hiring external consultants to see where the money goes in the police. We have thoroughly requested the economic calculations in this case, but we have not received a satisfactory answer. That's also one of the reasons we're going against this reorganisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e451	First of all, in terms of reform, it is actually the case that the Netherlands reform has received a satisfactory majority in this Chamber, the near-police reform is one of the broadest political cooperation that has been done in this Chamber during this period. So I think it's a little bit strange approach. The Labour Party is also involved in the near police reform, which I think is very constructive and good. But it's not like you have to cancel your own policy. This is a work that has been going on for a long time. It's a work that the criminal services themselves have thought has been very important and right to further develop criminal care not only to become more effective, but to maintain the quality that the criminal services want to maintain. So this is a reform that really is in good shape in large parts of criminal care, even if it's attempted to create an impression of something else. As far as criminal custody is concerned, I think I recommend that Mr Henriksen's representative take a look at the budgets for the last three years, where criminal care is dramatically strengthened in relation to what it was in the Labour Party's reign. However, criminal services are also subject to efficiency requirements, in the same way as all other parts of the public sector, through the ABE reform. It is initially 0,5 pst. I think most people will see that as a relatively moderate efficiency requirement, in general. But, of course, it's important that someone then manages to take it into more efficiency, so that it doesn't get cut. So the representative Tajik says that this reform or this proposition answers a question that has never been asked. That's what I think is a strange approach, because Tajik was probably part of the government apparatus under the red-green government. They actually asked that question already in 2006. There was an evaluation report already in 2008, which the Red-Green Government did not follow up, but that does not mean that the question has not been asked. The dialogue and discussions on the development and improvement of criminal services are certainly a continuous discussion to which we should all contribute, without one having to wait for someone to ask another question about exactly the same. I think it's a bit strange approach from the Justice Committee's leader to this, because it was actually the red-green government that asked this question first. Then they didn't choose to go on with it, and it's a perfectly neat and neat priority. However, we believe that this is a reform that will strengthen criminal care and freedom of care, improve resource use, improve the means of reconciliation and cooperation between what is now the criminal service and free care. I dare remind you that this is the lowest level that is now the only level that is not administratively linked. Now it's connected at national level, it's linked at regional level, and it would be quite natural to follow it up at local level too, but we'd better get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e464	This is my eleventh year as a member of the Justice Committee, and I believe, with all due respect, that I have good news that some previous governments have said that they have delivered 100 pst. in the case of requests within each sector, whether in the field of justice or other sectors. I had the pleasure of visiting Norwegian prisons while Odd Einar Dørum and Knut Storberget, respectively, were ministers of justice. Even then, you simply get enough appropriations to do everything you wanted – you might have more political ambitions than what you can figure out, both in your own government and in this house – but then it was about priority. Let me say as my good friend and former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget said: It should be done well to be re-elected to the Stortinget by unilaterally investing in criminal matters. It's an important field, but if it's the most important thing when the fight is about the big heads, I'm in doubt about. At the same time, there is no doubt that it is the most important thing for the prisoners, for their relatives and for those who work in criminal matters, and that should not be underestimated. That's why I see some of the angles that have been promoted here today from the opposition's side, as negative, because you'd rather stop a change that the government thinks will lead to a better procedure closer to the prisoner, and in that way hopefully you can do better every day, and that could lead to a crime-free life afterwards. That's the ambition of the government, that's our ambition, and I assume that's also the ambition of the Storting. Then, of course, we can argue about the details of this, but I think some of the questions that have been asked become petty, and they fall on their own unreasonableness. I see that the focus of Stortinget is to do the best you can to help the individual. We can attack the angle of it, but once again: one should have such self-respect and respect for one another that one may disagree with some of the goals, but the focus must nevertheless be the most important thing, that we want people to end up with a life of crime and come back as good taxpayers. If we do that, we do our job better, and we help people do the same. We could say, of course, that this is kind of just a detail, but it's not. If you can get closer to the prisoners, if you can better meet their everyday lives and their challenges, we can do something about everyday life and maybe we can also help them get out of it. If there is anything this government has done at least as the previous government has not done, then it is to have made an effort for the weakest of the weakest in Norwegian prisons. It is likely that the entries from Ila, perhaps the toughest and most difficult department we have in Norway, have been seen. There this government has done things that have never been done before. If it's not about caring, if it's not about taking care of the weakest of the weakest in Norwegian prisons, nothing does.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e479	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e493	A Joint Committee is in favour of proposing amendments to the Law on Legal Aid in order to raise the proportion of the free trial from five to eight times the salary, and to exempt cases of joint ownership transfer between spouses and financial settlement under the Community household law as a priority of the case type at the stage of proceedings. The Labour Party believes that free legal aid is important. It gives more access to getting right, not just being right. It makes the state of law not just a principle, but a reality for more. Ideally, we think there may be a need for a greater review, looking at both who can receive, what thresholds it should be, and what areas of action should be covered. The changes we are dealing with today are just a small part of the complex offer that free legal aid is. At the same time, of course, we are dealing with the issues that are being raised, and in this case we have unanimously chosen to go for the changes that have been proposed. No changes have been made to the right to freedom of justice in these cases. The beneficiary will therefore be able to continue to receive legal guidance in the case by up to seven hours. The assistance may also include negotiations with the counterparty. The purpose of both cases is to resolve several cases outside the legal system. There are important counter-conceptions to the proposals of several hearing bodies regarding the removal of the right to free movement of persons in cases of collective bargaining. These are based on the different strengths of the parties to such a conflict and in particular could adversely affect women. On the other hand, there is a challenge where the force ratio is similar but where one party is so far below the income and wealth limits and the other beyond. In such cases, one party will have everything covered, the other nothing. However, there is a possibility that there may be exceptions in some cases, which are covered by the exception provided for in the third paragraph of Section 16 of the Law on Legal Aid. Moments such as highly distorted power ratios, whether of a material nature or of a material nature, e.g.: physical or mental violence may be emphasised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e512	I'll just briefly inform you that SV is going to vote against the proposal to raise the roof for property by free trial to eight times the basic part of § 9 third paragraph of the Law on Legal Aid – simply because we see no other main effect of it than that in cases where there is a proven need for free trial, it will be more expensive for a part that may, after all, have had an economic impact. So I guess we'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e517	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e531	We're going to deal with the state budget next week. In this respect, we must also deal with the state budget of the justice sector. One of the areas of justice is possible changes in the legal fee. The years in which the legal fee has been amended shall be decided upon in the context of the State budget. In order for the State budget to take effect as provided for, amendments to the legal fee must also be made by law in the same budgetary decision. But that law-enforcement decision appears more like a mere formality. Therefore, the Government now proposes that the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 1 of the Law Fee Act be changed to a statutory home and that the Ministry then regulate the amount of the legal fee in the regulation on the legal fee. Thus, the legal fee could be changed more easily in line with the budget decision of the Grand Duchy. This is a proposal for simplification supported by the Committee as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e542	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e556	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e565	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation, a committee which unanimously endorses this legislative proposal, which is, in short, a legislative proposal aimed at setting a clear legal framework when the police can be temporarily armed. Today, this is contained in instructions. Police shall be able to be temporarily armed in a situation where there is evidence of a threat to society through a threat assessment. This is a follow-up to a request decision in Stortinget from May 2005, and I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for its effectiveness. It is worth noting in this case that the bill does not change the principle that Norwegian police should, as a general rule, be unarmed. As you know, the government has set down a selection that is now in the process of exploring alternative models for the armaments of the Norwegian police in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e574	Today we are dealing with the government's proposal for a law on changes to the police law, on temporary weapons. Like the rapporteur, I would like to thank the rapporteur, on behalf of the Labour Party, for good cooperation and good work on the part of the rapporteur. This change is primarily about a clearer anchoring of the provision on temporary armaments, of the weapons directive for the police, in Section 29 of the Law of 4 August 1995 No. 53 about the police, i.e. the law of the police. The proposal also provides a framework for situations that may justify temporary armaments. It is linked to the ability of the police to cope with a serious threat situation in our country. The Labour Party notes that the amendment does not change the current principles that Norwegian police should be unarmed, and we are very pleased with that. Furthermore, the provision does not provide for absolute limits on the duration of the temporary period, but it is apparent from the arms instruction §3-2, second to third paragraphs, that such weapons may last for three months, with an additional extension which may be decided for up to eight weeks at a time. The working party is concerned because we have noticed that the Council of State is trying to shift responsibility from the obligation to keep Stortinget informed, to the Stortinget itself to obtain the necessary information. The Workers' Party is committed to upholding the overall principle of responsibility between the Stortinget and the Government, by allowing the Stortinge to exercise control over the powers of the Ministry and the police, in order to enable the Stortinge to assess whether they are being properly exercised. The Workers' Party considers it not only natural, but necessary that the Ministry keep the Stortinget informed when introducing temporary weapons and en route by means of a temporary weapon. The Labour Party has noticed that the government has reduced a sample to investigate future weapons models for the Norwegian police. The selection shall also take into account the experience of temporary armaments and the practice of the forward-looking storage of weapons in cars. We have noted the majority's comment that they stress that the practice we have today should be continued. The Workers' Party and the Centre will refer to the decision of 5 May 2015: ‘The government is asking the government to assess how the Storting can be more involved when the police are armed over a longer period of time and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ We expect the government to follow up this decision and involve the Storting in such a way that the intentions behind the proposal are respected. Finally, I would like to refer to a previous remark by a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. It says that: ‘what measures the police should be able to use against our citizens, not just a police matter. It's also a value question, and then it's going to be dealt with. It implies that democracy determines how democracy is to be protected, not government or directorate, or individual police districts’. In addition, it says: ‘This majority indicates that this is closely related to the police’s social mission: they represent us, they protect us and the key principles for how they do this are determined by us.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e605	This is a very important and interesting matter. Just to establish it immediately: the only party that is, at least per day, a member of permanent armed forces, is the Progress Party. Even though someone in the hall shakes his head, it's still a fact. Just so they're told. I think it's an important matter The Storting discusses today. For a while, in the discussion about temporary weapons, I have experienced that there has been a long way to go about the Storting can actually go in and decide when to open access. I would strongly warn against that. You have to be careful about the role differences between what the Big One does and what the government does. If you start messing it up, you can end up with consequences that you strictly don't want. I think in this way that what is happening now is good, and I also think, with all possible respect, that it should be done well that a government dares to have a liquid transition from temporary armaments to permanent armaments, all the time the Storting has been so clear. Even today's government wouldn't dare do anything like that. That's why I think the debates are becoming trendy and colored by what you think you see, rather than the facts. I would strongly warn against that. We have a system under which the government gives authority and ensures that the Norwegian police can be temporarily armed. We also have a forward-looking storage system in the vehicles. It's worked well. It has undoubtedly helped to make everyday life safer for those in the first line, Norwegian police. You should have respect for that, and they should have honor for the job they're doing. I am also pleased that we now conclude that we are continuing the system we have. It's a good and functional arrangement – and soon it's Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e614	It sounded very tempting with Christmas right now, but we'll probably get through the weekend first. I wanted to take the floor to stress that we are very pleased with what the committee has come up with, and that government has presented. Of course, I am glad that the temporary armament is being passed on. The reason I shook my head when the representative Ellingsen spoke was more that I am disappointed in the Advance Party. I want to clarify what the committee refers to, which is in the proposition on page 10: ‘The Ministry therefore considers it natural that the Stortinget should be kept informed when the Department decides on temporary arms. The size is oriented in the way that the size is considered appropriate. For example, guidance may be given by the responsible State Council to the plenary assembly or to the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee. [[GROANS]] I think it's very good that it says so. It's the department's job to brief Stortinget. But then it's the Storting that can choose to say that we want a debate in the open hall, as we have on statements, or whether we want it in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I believe that the way it is put up does not change the practice, as the Workers' Party fears. It's also going on with good practice, and it's the Stortinge that has authority to say that we want to have it one way or the other. So I feel no change. I think it's important to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e628	I'm not going to make any long speeches in this case, we've had several rounds here about what's involved in the arms of the police, and today's case is of a formal nature. However, it is appropriate to stress that the Storting should be informed when a decision is made on the temporary armament of the police, and this is a requirement, not just something that is natural, as mentioned in the proposition. It is democracy that will decide how democracy will be protected, and the key principles of how the police will protect the citizens will be decided by the Storting. This is not up to the government or a directorate, nor to the individual police district. Otherwise, I will finally refer to the decision of 5 May 2015, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess how the Storting can be more involved when the police are armed over a longer period of time and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ As mentioned by the Central Party and the Labour Party in the committee position, we expect the government to follow this decision, and that the government will involve the Storting in such a way that the intentions behind the decision will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e640	Let me first thank the Committee and the rapporteur for a good piece of work. It is a unanimous committee that supports the government's proposal, even if you don't get the impression when you listen to the debate. I would like to make a few comments on what the Labour Party in particular has said in the setting, and so far in the post here as well, and I would like to refer to the staging proposition – now the representative called it in a good way – but it says in the proposition on page 9, point 6.2: ‘The Ministry maintains the overall principle of accountability between the Storting and the Government, as referred to in the consultation note. It is important, however, that the Storting may exercise control over the powers of the Ministry and the police so that the Storting can assess whether they are properly exercised. The Ministry therefore considers it natural that the Stortinget should be kept informed when the Department decides on temporary arms.» I believe that it follows quite well what is the intention behind the comment from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I'm a little uncertain about what they really think is missing. I also want to mention that we assume that Decision 524 has been followed up with this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e654	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e669	The background to the case is the strategy put forward by the government in June 2015 to ensure faster, simpler and cheaper housing. The Housing Entry Act applies to contracts between contractors and consumers for the construction of new dwellings. Paragraph 12 of the Act requires the contractor to provide a guarantee of the performance of his part of the contract. So it's been unclear when, so at what time, this guarantee has to occur. It's solving this proposition now. This makes the law more predictable, and it is positive for both entrepreneurs and consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e674	The SV will support the proposal as presented. I just took the word to stress that I want the government to follow closely the consequences. I want to say it's unclear to what extent this will have the positive results, which are the intentions, and which is why we want to support it. It may have problematic aspects for the consumer in some cases. We are concerned that the government will closely follow up on whether it will have such consequences for consumers – and to the extent that it will also weigh it up against whether or not it can make clear that this can lead to an increase in housing construction, which is the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e679	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e693	Many perpetrators avoid punishment by failing to appear in court to deal with the case. The problem is to have the verdict declared, so that it becomes justifiable. Today, we have rules for summoning the judgment to be served in or after the trial. An overall committee agrees with the proposal in the proposal on amendments to the rules of the Court of Justice on the service of criminal proceedings, which means that the time and place of notification of the judgment may be determined prior to the main hearing or appeal proceedings. Amendments to the law are proposed so that the appeal period can run from the notified time of service even if intended not to meet. Criminals are punishable by legal prosecuting or judgment. There is an increasing social problem that crime has become more cross-border, and that persons refrain from criminal prosecution by failing to attend the court when the case is being dealt with. You can then get a failure judgment by law. The problem is to have the verdict declared, so that it becomes justifiable. Statistics show that in Oslo police districts in the period 2010–2016, there have been an average of 7,700 prosecution cases that have not been made legally enforceable. One important reason for this is that many of the affected persons have non-resident citizenship without a fixed address or a known address in Norway. In order to increase the attendance of judicial proceedings and to increase the number of judicial judges, the Committee, acting unanimously, agrees with the Government's proposal that the time and place for the service of a future judgment may be served with the appeal and at the same time as the main hearing. It must therefore be possible to determine the time and place of notification of the judgment before the main or appeal proceedings. In this way, several juridical judges may be obtained whose purpose was not, in fact, to appear before the courts or to serve the judgment. The problem is that the appeal period cannot start because the convicted person has not received the service of the judgment. The timing of the service is well known in advance, the appeal period can start running, and through it you will get to the point where the judgment becomes enforceable, and the convicted person can actually begin his acquittal. This is important for the convicted and, above all, it is important for the security of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e706	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for their good work in following up on the government's proposals. I was actually going to go through what is the practical consequences of this, but I think the case rapporteur did it in such an excellent way that I don't spend any time doing it. However, I would like to stress the importance of this change in fact, by taking an extract from the description of an inspection by the State Attorney General of Oslo at the Greenland Police Station. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘A large number of main negotiations will have to be postponed because the defendant is unable to sue. If the defendant is sued, he fails in many cases to attend the main hearing. You can then get a non-compliance judgment under Section 281 of the Criminal Procedures Act. The problem will then be to have the judgment served so that it can become enforceable." This is a proposal that facilitates good cooperation between the courts and the police. It can lead to faster criminal proceedings, and it is very much in line with the rapid court project we have in Oslo, where exactly this kind of thing will be relevant. It will help to make it considerably more difficult to avoid a judgment of law, and it will be considerably more difficult not to take the consequences that a conviction must take after such a judgment. It's an important change, because the appeal period starts to run at a much earlier time. In this way, we now have an effective, practical rule while ensuring legal certainty in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e739	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e748	The Finnish State Court has been established on the basis of the Finnish State Act. It will resolve issues between the private and Finnmark property on ownership. It is in the spirit of law that the private party in such cases should have strong protection and rights. The background to this proposition is that there has been a lack of clarity in relation to the extent of what is to be covered by the costs of the case. Today's wording in the law is ambiguous. It can either be interpreted in the direction of being very snowy, or it can be interpreted in the direction of being very wide. Therefore, a balanced clarification of the scope has been necessary. The majority of the Committee's support is to cover the necessary costs. You also have to cover the costs of investigating whether you have a good and reasonable case at all, that is. that the private party is still very strongly protected by the law in this case. It is only fair and reasonable that we set some limits for the coverage of the costs. Whether in the north or south of this country, it is that legal arrangements that can act in the ultimate sense as a process driver and a conflict-promoting or a conflict-prolonging process should be avoided. We saw when this court came into force, that the cost estimates for the recovery of costs were broken very early. Then came the request for additional appropriations, and the additional appropriations were also used. It became quite clear that an adjustment to the legislation had to be made. In the original consultation proposal, there was a proposal on the table that took a rather marked step away from what is the legal state of the day. There were hearings, the department listened, especially to Sami environments, and the proposal that was transmitted to the Stortinget and the Justice Committee, I think is very balanced and good. I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee supports what is on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e761	The proposition deals with changes to Section 43 of the Act, which today states that the State will cover the parties' costs in all cases before the Foreign Court between the Finnish State and other parties. The Ministry now enters in order to adjust the obligation of the State to cover the costs of the case in those cases. The majority of the Committee considers that it is important that access to recovery of costs is not too wide because it may serve as an incentive to bring proceedings. The working party believes this is unwarranted fear. We refer to several hearing replies that claim that there is no point in believing that the current right to cover costs has been procedural and conflict-promoting. The Labour Party will also show that most hearing bodies are against the bill. Only three hearing bodies are in favour. We will also refer to the Association of Lawyers, which points out that the law in force must be understood in the light of the decision of the Utmark Court on the issue and that the legal status should not be changed. The Association of Lawyers points to the fact that costs are the clearest obstacle to the promotion and settlement of their claims by co-workers and that the risk of the imposition of costs would be of central importance for the parties concerned to pursue a case before the Utmark Court. The Labour Party sees it as very unfortunate that we can have discrimination here. The Workers' Party will also point out that today's Section 43 of the Finnmark Act is very similar to the arrangement that was in place before the Utmark Court of Nordland and Troms, and we believe it would be wrong to have a worse arrangement for Finnmark. The Labour Party will vote against amendment of the Act § 43.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e770	The proposal in the proposal implies a certain reduction in the State’s coverage of the parties’ costs to the State Court of Foreign Affairs compared to the understanding of the Finnish State Law at this point. The purpose is to prevent the rule from being so wide that it encourages groundless lawsuits. At the same time, it is important that access to recovery of costs continues to cover all cases where there is a real need for judicial clearance. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposals. Following the proposal, the obligation of the State to cover the costs of the case will be nuanced according to who has received support from the Finnish Commission's reports and who is going to file a case. The proposal provides for a comprehensive recovery of costs for private parties. The costs will be covered in all cases in which the Finnmark property has opposed a conclusion of the Finnmark Commission that the private party has rights to the land. The costs will be covered in all other cases where the Finnmark property raises a case. In addition, the costs incurred by the private party shall be borne if there is reason to believe that the action may be brought by the private party. In addition, the costs incurred by the private party may be covered by a specific assessment. The private party can be determined in advance whether the costs will be recovered and the State will also cover the costs of clarification. The Finnmark property will be covered by its costs when the private company raises a case, but not otherwise. I note that the members of the Labour Party and of the Committee of the Centre have objections to the bill and have recently been tabled by the pulpit. These members may appear to have read only the consultation note and the consultation recordings and not the actual proposal in the proposal. The government made significant changes in the light of the objections raised in the hearing. I have noticed that the committee members of the Workers' Party noted that the Finnmark property ‘would be able to bring all their lost cases before the Utmark Court without any financial risk’. That would be the case if the proposal sent to the hearing was proposed in the proposal. After the bill that is in the bill, where we have taken into account the hearings that have been received, the situation is quite different. If the Finnmark property itself goes to court, it itself is responsible for its own costs, as is usually the case under the dispute law. Substantial changes in response to the hearings are supported by the fact that the very critical consultation response of the Sameting has now contributed to the agreement of the government on the proposal. As the majority of the committee mentions, the legislative proposal represents a continuation of cooperation on the Finnland Act and not a breach of the compromise at that time. The legislative changes will help to make use of the funds allocated to the rights mapping in Finnmark in a sensible way. Progress in the mapping process is also improving. In this regard, I would like to refer to the response of the Council of State, Mr Listhaug, on my behalf, to Question 13 in the Stortinget Question Time on 9 November from the representative of Kåre Simensen. Three measures have been taken to address the challenge of rights mapping. One was the bill in Prop. 155 L for 2015–2016 on a certain adjustment of the case-cost rule in the Finnish Law. The second was that, in the context of the revised national budget in 2016, it was decided that such costs should no longer be covered by the budget of the Utmark Court, but as regulatory expenditure above the chapter on free legal aid. In this way, a very variable expenditure item that hampered the planning of progress was deducted from the allocation for rating mapping. The third measure is that during this year's budgetary procedure, the amount actually allocated to the Finnish mark-up can be clarified. I refer to the budget proposal, which shows that 16 million. kr has been allocated the rating mapping in Finnmark under cap. 410 Courts of Justice. In short, I am pleased that the Committee supports the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e787	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e801	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e810	I have been delighted to be the case rapporteur in the preparation of this vote. The starting point is a Document 8 proposal, submitted by representatives Sveinung Rotevatn, Iselin Nybø and Ola Elvestuen, on the right of access to the royal house. The Committee has been unanimous in its consideration of this matter, and I would like to thank you for your good cooperation. We share the opinion of the proposers that transparency is one of the guiding principles of democracy. The Committee would otherwise refer to and support the State Council's letter of reply to the Committee on the matter. The Committee would stress in its letter of reply that documents to or from the Royal Court would be subject to the right of access if the document was held by a body governed by the law and they were to be considered to be documents of that body. The same assessment will apply to documents in which the royal court or royal court is mentioned. A Joint Committee does not want any changes to current practice. At this stage, we are not in favour of changes to the law. The Committee would point out that, in respect of the royal court's disposal of funds allocated to the court of the State budget, this matter has been handed over to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the matter will be dealt with there and not in the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e823	On behalf of the Left, I must say that I am disappointed with the judicial committee's consideration of this matter. Here we have tried to take an initiative to ensure more transparency about the management of large public funds. We want more transparency about what's happening at the top of the constitutive coronary sac – an initiative that, moreover, has full support from the press's own organs, which also feels that it's very difficult to follow and light up what's going on in the royal house. And what happens? Well, the committee asks for advice from the government council, gets left hand work back, presses cut and paste, and creates a setting without incentive for reflection. The Council of State, as well as the Judicial Committee of the Grand Duchy, believes that the issue of the right of access to the royal house documents has been the subject of thorough political discussion. Of course it doesn't! The question was not raised in the Public Law Committee, which issued a new law in 2003. The question was therefore not at the hearing. However, the Norwegian Journalist team proposed that a new public law should include the Royal Court. The Ministry concluded that there was no need for legislative change in this area. The fact that the Judicial Committee subsequently found that conditions related to the royal house are treated in a prudent and sound manner is hardly enough to characterise it as thorough political treatment. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the king is governed by the Public Act when he exercises formal power and authority in the Council of State. Moreover, when public bodies which are themselves governed by the Public Service Act communicate with the Court, the Court is also hoped to be governed by the Public Service Act. Yeah, this really says itself. But that's not our point of the proposal. Our point is just to ask the government to come to Stortinget with a proposal that can also secure other aspects of the royal house, except for the purely private enterprises, of course, and ensure transparency and transparency. In order to take a practical but important example: since the royal court as such is not subject to the disclosure law, they also do not have the right to have an open and searchable postal record, which they obviously do not have. It makes it difficult for the media and others to go through financial and other issues in a good way. This is not a theoretical problem either, because over the last few years, Dagbladet has been running a series of articles in which they have tried to review the economy of the royal house. It has been a heavy job, and it has been difficult to get information. But what has been revealed is, among other things, a budgetary management and a blending of public funds contrary to the budget decision of the Storting and that the operating resources of the Royal Court have gone for purposes which should have been covered by the agreement, and thus have gone to the personal enrichment of the members of the royal house. One can always discuss how serious these revelations have been, but it should be undeniable that it is positive that this has emerged. The size has a better basis for adopting budgetary decisions, and the court is given the chance to correct errors. The King's House is in its nature a construction that does not entirely fit into the usual boxes of central government. Since it is a public body that is at the same time a private family, it naturally makes it difficult to draw clear lines between what kind of information should belong to the public sphere and what should belong to the private sphere. But there can't be any excuse that the Justice Committee won't even try to look at this issue again. The Left has proposed that the Government review today's rules and come back to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that the exercise of official functions, including property management and business operations, by the royal house is subject to greater transparency. The Committee has not been able to agree to this proposal, but I am taking it up again here today. I hope the committee will think again before we go to voting. Regardless of whether one is a monarchy or a republican, it should be possible to gather on what is absolutely fundamental: openness must be the rule, not the exception, even in the case of the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e854	The representative Iselin Nybø then mentioned the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e870	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e879	We live in a time when authoritarian forces are on the rise, and we see a number of heads of state that get clear authoritarian traits. Some of them also seem a little moodless and easily inviolable. So the timing of a bill like this could hardly be better. What's important in times like this is that we call around our ability to express ourselves freely, to criticise systems, including the systems of other countries, and that those rights are inviolable and inviolable. When I saw the news of the example from Germany, I could actually imagine myself promoting a Document 8 proposal on this change. Then I turned up in the paper and saw that SV had done the same thing, and there is nothing in the world that is more enjoyable than being able to agree with SV in between. Here's a little shade, right, because I think SV might have taken a little too much Møller's tran. They propose in their Document 8 that the whole provision be removed. This provision contains some good and sensible provisions, including: the prohibition of violence and threats to the representatives of other countries, which may be reasonable to maintain, but ‘approachable’ behaviour is typically a condition which may make a mistake in any case. The majority therefore propose that the Department look at this, also against our international obligations and the protection we should give to international diplomats, and return with a proposition to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e890	I want to thank the case spokesman, Frølich, for a good post, and I just want to say that the Labour Party is behind it, because there's an incursion in the setting that might make it look like we don't want to vote with the majority. That is what we want in this matter. Just to underline that point further, I thought I'd tell you a profoundly offensive clue about a representative from another country from this pulpit, but I'm going to refrain from it. But I refer you to the initiative of the SV representatives to change these statements and I stress that it is important to have them done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e899	In any case, I can say that it was never the intention of the proposers that we should start by telling profoundly offensive jokes from Stortinget's pulpit – so it might as well be. I also thank the case spokesperson. It was interesting to right that he's thought the same thing as SV. The series of suggestions we've been thinking about running in the hall is probably too long for many of us, so we're going to stick to the ones that's ahead of us. I am very pleased that the case spokesman and the committee support the idea behind it. I don't think it's special with our time is that we have authoritarian state leaders who are moodless, it's probably happened often through history. The special thing about our time is that the freedom of expression and the point of view of him has moved forward, that we have other thresholds for accepting criticism, including the ridicule and violation of the authoritarian leaders of other countries. It's a pleasure to see that there's a bunch of stuff behind it. The tool for doing something as a representative is often a proposal for a representative. I totally agree with the committee that the best thing is that it's done through a proposition from the government. Then a few can do the necessary preliminary work, including legal assessments of what is the best way to do it, and whether there are details that are omitted from such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e908	I would also like to thank both the committee, the case rapporteur and, in particular, the proposers, although I was a little surprised when the case rapporteur said that nothing is more pleasant than to agree with SV once in a while. I can think of several things that are at least as joyful, but yet it's very good that one has found this solution. I also think it is good to hear one of the proposers say that he too believes it is right that we get a proposal worked through and get it done in a thorough manner, also because it has some effects in relation to our international commitments that it is good to get thoroughly informed through an ordinary proposition. And I think it was wise for the chairman of the Judicial Committee to refrain from telling a profoundly offensive joke from the Parliament's pulpit, because I would like to point out that the provision still applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e917	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 10 and 11 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e944	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e954	Privacy is an important right in a liberal society. Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights makes it clear that the right to privacy and to determine their own personal data are important. What is also extremely important is that privacy creates trust in a society. The fact that you can trust each other, that you can trust the state and not be afraid to be monitored creates security in society. If there is something that promotes quality in Norway, we have a high level of trust. We also believe that it promotes exchange and debate and does not lead to fear that one must stand in the way of one's opinions or that one feels that one must hide something from society. That is why I should like to pay tribute to the proposers, both in case No. 10 and, to the extent that, in Case No. 11, who wants a Commission or various measures to ensure privacy. I would like to thank the Committee for a good job. It is a unanimous committee that determines the importance of privacy. But the committee has also come up with a different solution than going on with a commission, although, to emphasize it, I think for my part that the Commission is a good proposal, but we have chosen to go a little further. That is why the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have tabled a proposal for a decision that we point out that we want to look at today's personal data law, whether it is sufficient to ensure privacy in the best possible way. Then we also include children and young people, who are mentioned in case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The reason why we do that is because we see that there have been a number of investigations, a number of different commissions, but also that developments in the privacy field are taking place at an enormous rate. We know that society is going to be more digital. We're going to get more dolls that are going to have GPS in them, and we're going to have a lighter form of surveillance. We simply want us to go directly and look at the legal text, whether it's good enough, whether it's up-to-date from the developments that have taken place. I see there are some proposals from the Left that we could have voted in favour of, but I think this is the right way. That is why we are in favour of the position that exists, and we are going to vote against those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e963	Privacy is a very important principle in a democratic society. Privacy helps individuals to make their own assessments on an independent basis without being controlled either by the country or by others. It promotes exchanges and participation in public space and is crucial to freedom and democracy. We have two issues today relating to privacy. I think both proposals are good. An important issue is raised and an important debate is held. I think it is neat that we here in the Grand Duchy today are debating these two issues together. As we see it, privacy should be seen in an overall perspective and not in part and in part, and it is probably also the committee's recommendation that the various elements included in both proposals should be looked at in a uniform manner. Data protection in Norway has been investigated a number of times in the past. However, in a constantly evolving society, not least in the digital arena, it is important that we constantly look at and make data protection-related assessments. In NOU 2009: 1, called Individual and Integrity — Privacy in the digital society, privacy related to the media, the labour, health and transport sector, the organisation of data protection authorities, and the protection of children and young people's privacy were investigated. Report. St. 11 for 2012–2013, Privacy – prospects and challenges, were thorough, but not necessarily in depth on the issues that are most relevant to the justice sector, but are nevertheless an important input into the debate we have today. In the Committee's view, there is a basis for considering the setting up of a Data Protection Commission aimed at the justice sector. In the Minister of Justice and Security reply to the Committee, dated 14 October 2016, the Council of State states that there may be a need for a Data Protection Commission, but the Council of State nevertheless points out that a possible Commission should have a broader perspective, and I am very pleased that that is the approach of the Council of State. I note that this is something that a majority in the Committee agrees with. We should also ensure thorough processing and preparation of cases as there are several processes to be implemented soon or which have just been implemented in the field of privacy, as the Council of State also points out in its reply letter to the Judicial Committee. Societal development and technological development and the security policy backbone mean that privacy needs to be considered from an increasingly new perspective. The majority of the Committee agrees with the intentions of the draft representative, but points out at the same time that it is not only in the field of justice that there may be a need to address privacy issues. To this end, the Committee proposes an overall review of data protection legislation in the light of changing social conditions in line with the Ministry’s technical recommendations. As regards the protection of privacy of children and young people, work is currently under way in the Ministry to prepare for inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the EU Data Protection Regulation and for the implementation of the Regulation in Norwegian law. The Regulation emphasises that the processing of the personal data of children requires special protection and contains several provisions to ensure that this is done. The Committee has therefore pointed out in the case that it wishes to submit to the concrete proposals in the draft representative a detailed assessment in the context of the submission of proposals for the implementation of the EU Data Protection Regulation in Norwegian law. There is no doubt that it is important to protect children and young people's right to privacy, in the family, in kindergartens and in schools. Technological developments in society and the use of new technologies raise specific issues for the protection of privacy of children. The problems are reinforced as technological developments take place. It is related to issues related to adult attitudes in publishing information and images of minors, and to increasingly seeing examples of the most serious violations of children’s privacy being committed by adults. I am therefore pleased that there is now an important work to be done on these issues in order to improve the privacy of children and young people in the department and in the government, and that we will come back to this and will have an overall review in the Storting at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e982	First to Document 8:94. Ideally, the Labour Party would like to see a data protection commission set down, as proposed by the Left. It is a good and important proposal. There's a need to see this more closely than what you've done now. We also understand the impudence of the Centre Party after setting up a Commission to address the vulnerability of privacy in the justice sector in the light of the changes in recent years to counter terrorism and other crime. Nevertheless, when we vote in favour of the proposal from the government party, it is because we think that there is a proposal that is at least in the right direction and that it is possible to get multiples for at this point in time. I would like to make it clear that the proposal from the government party is somewhat tame because they ask the government to look at changes, but they do not impose any requirements on the distribution, mandate or form of this recital that they ask the government to carry out. But as it draws in the right direction, we'd rather assume that the Labour Party, together with the Left, the Center Party and possibly the other party, can have more ambitious goals when we get more numbers for it. For Document 8:113, the Labour Party, together with the Centre Party, has a proposal to regulate the publication of children’s health information in social media when sharing does not take place on the basis of journalism. The background to this is that we see that the extent of sharing of this type of information has increased considerably. There is also something that can have quite significant consequences for the children when they grow up later, that information is made available and potentially searchable for the future. In this case, the Left also has its own proposals. Their first proposal is a ban on camera surveillance in schools and kindergartens. For this proposal, the Labour Party will express an understanding of the intention, but at the same time records that, for example: an actor to whom the Student Organisation uses words as ‘sceptical’ when referring to this camera monitoring. I also understand that the student organisation recognises the need for exceptions to the general rule of refraining from such camera surveillance, and that this is not further clarified in the proposal from the Left. We also know that there is relatively little practice in some schools, which means that an immediate ban could have quite a big impact on implementation. We still believe that there are good reasons to regulate this, but that a ban without assessment of exemption rules may be premature, and there may be reason to consider kindergartens and schooling separately. The second proposal from the Left will be put to the vote – that is the proposal on internal control procedures for schools and kindergartens, so that they can more easily comply with the regulations and obligations of personal information laws. We would like to make it clear that there is, of course, a need to facilitate an appropriate transfer of information between kindergartens and schools, when it has a meaning for tailoring education for the student, and that it must also be possible to transfer in an appropriate way. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e997	The representative of Hadia Tajik has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1002	The right shares the absolute intention of the proposers in these two cases. Societals are changing. We are constantly getting new technologies, while the security situation is getting worse with terrorist threats, increasing intelligence pressure on Norway, etc., which means that privacy is constantly on one side of the scale, where the scale on the other is security and social security. Then privacy, which is an indivisible size and value of a democracy, must be measured up against the back wall and the social development of the rest. A Data Protection Commission will be able to give a momentary view of how it balances and how it is maintained. It is a good approach and a good intention, as I interpret the two proposals we are debating. The security of society must, of course, protect precisely privacy. The Personal Information Act, which is the law that essentially regulates the privacy of the Kingdom, came into force on 1 January 2001 – before the terror that struck the United States on 11 September, before we had a relationship with the concept of social media, before smartphones became part of the everyday life of the Norwegian people, before we had a concept of what cloud services and encryption meant, and before the Internet of Things was invented at all. At the time, data protection legislation was based on unforeseeable changes in society that are part of today’s everyday life. Therefore, there is a need to review privacy into a new era and also into what we can assume becomes the continuation of the social development we are constantly part of. The fact that children and young people are a special group we're going to think about in this context, I fully agree. It is about the use of the technology in a way that is based on attitudes, based on knowledge, based on actions, and which, not least, sees the impact of actions on children and young people if they do not make good assessments, and that abuse of the technology that we have can ultimately harm friends, associations and families. And privacy is an important part of this wallpaper. For the right, privacy is much more than an assessment of this in relation to the justice sector. Children and young people are an important dimension, but there is also much else we think should be considered in this matter. I believe that the proposal of the Judicial Committee actually goes beyond the proposals of representatives by pointing directly to the formal and legal basis of data protection in Norway, without necessarily going the way of a Data Protection Commission. It will be up to the government and the ministry to assess this in the light of what is happening in the field in Europe. There are also things happening that could have consequences for Norway. And then it'll be up to the department to set up a data protection commission. This may be the case, but the task will be to look at the legal basis – that is the starting point – whether it is up-to-date. I have doubts as to whether this is the case, but it must be carefully assessed and well professionally assessed by the competent team.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1015	We're debating two things gathering now. They apply to both representatives from the Left. One is the proposal to set up a Data Protection Commission for the justice sector, and the other is concerned. establishing a Data Protection Commission for Children and Young People. It is good to see that there is broad political agreement that privacy concerns are important, but the parties have different thoughts about how we can proceed to ensure better privacy. The Committee majority has demonstrated that the EU Data Protection Regulation will apply in the EU in 2018 and that efforts will be made to enable the Norwegian rules implementing the Regulation to enter into force at the same time. It is argued that a data protection commission cannot be shut down until it has been implemented, but in return, the Commission, which will be reduced in recent years, should have a broader perspective. The central party does not see why the implementation of an EU regulation should mean whether or not we have nationally reduced commissions to look at the position of privacy in the justice sector and for children and young people. Unfortunately, things take time. It takes time to put together a Commission and to draw up a mandate, and it takes time for the Commission to do its work. The last time we had a Data Protection Commission, it took three years from the decision to set up the Commission was taken, until the report from the Commission was finally sent to the Department. While we are in many ways taking advantage of technological developments, we must also follow up on the problems that these developments can bring about. If we look at data protection commissions in some fields today, we can build on the findings of these commissions, too, if the data protection commissions will later be reduced, which will have a broader perspective. However, waiting for an EU regulation before we can put down a data protection commission is, in my opinion, delaying an important job to be done in the privacy service. In our time, the police were given greater opportunities to use hidden coercive measures. Organized criminals and terrorists are constantly using new technological tools, and it was therefore necessary to take some action in this field, so that the police could find the necessary means to fight crime. Nevertheless, it is difficult to find the balance between the concern for effective crime fighting and the concern for privacy. This was the result, I believe, that there was insufficient regard for privacy. Proposals on which the Centre Party was involved – which would secure privacy to a greater extent – were voted down. I think we now need to figure out the privacy implications of the decisions that are made. Therefore, a personal data protection commission for the justice sector needs to be established quickly. When it comes to a data protection commission for children and young people, we also have disagreements in the committee – not about the purpose, but about the shape and time perspective. I think there's a need to look at this now. If we are to wait until after the implementation of the EU Regulation in Norwegian law, those who go to the youth school and continue to go to school today will already have the final exam. Technology is developing at a rapid pace, and unfortunately, young people and young people are particularly exposed to the negative consequences. It is more important than ever that we work to ensure the privacy of children and young people that they are entitled to. I therefore support the assessment of the left-wing proposers that it is important to ensure political awareness of the theme of youth and privacy, as well as the boundaries between privacy and other concerns. This is why the centre party goes in to ask the government to set up a data protection commission for children and young people. When it comes to camera surveillance in the school, I will show that the Data Protection Authority has called the practice problematic. General surveillance, as it has developed in many schools – and without rules for storage – is highly interventional. Monitoring may have a preventive effect, e.g. against bullying and atrocities, but it could also affect the behaviour of students and work delimiting in a way that is not positive. There is therefore a need for restrictive practices and the issues should be addressed more closely. I therefore make the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Ministry of Justice and Defence issues a circular intensifying the practice of camera monitoring at schools in line with the assessments of the Data Protection Authority.’ The Centre Party also agrees with the Labour Party on a proposal to regulate the possibility of publishing health information to young people in social media. With this, I take up all the proposals from the Central Party in the two matters we are now debating together.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1046	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1051	Let me start by saying a little about the proposal for a Data Protection Commission in the field of justice. It is good that everyone who has been up here says that privacy is fundamental and important in a liberal and democratic society. But it's a challenge when it's easier to stand and talk about privacy in speeches and speeches than actually to do something about it. Another challenge that we face at uneven intervals is that we get this discussion piece by piece and division. We know that there is now a case in the courts concerning whether the police can use fingerprints to open up telephones. It has not been long since we ourselves dealt with a matter that went about hacking into computers. These are things that come up all the way up, and there's continuous development in society that makes new methods keep getting involved. This week we could read about the United Kingdom, which is now introducing a new law that is referred to as the snooping law. It goes significantly beyond the Data Storage Directive, which we have discussed here several times. It shows how timely this matter is, and how we move all the way with small and large steps towards what is at the expense of privacy. For one thing is to talk about the importance and importance of privacy, another thing is to take the consequence that privacy should actually be lifted. Nor is it an up-to-date issue in Norway that we should introduce such large and comprehensive surveillance. We know that this digital border defence also puts privacy under considerable pressure, so here we are in an area that is constantly being challenged. That's exactly what was the point of proposing a commission. I would say very strongly that the proposal to set up a commission in the field of justice is to go much further than what the government parties put up to here, where they ask the government to consider, firstly because you get an independent commission to look at this, you get a broader view, you have a concrete order about what you want, you don't just leave it to the government to look at whether the data protection law is sufficient to safeguard privacy. I fully agree with what Anders B. Werp said, that there is reason to be unsure whether it is sufficient. I also want to comment on something that goes on children and young people. Children and young people are completely subject to what adults decide. It's not like children and young people can choose to go to that school or that school, it's not like children and young people can choose if they want to be in a camera-monitored schoolroom or not. It is the responsibility of adults to protect the privacy of children, and children also have the right to privacy, and therefore it is important that we focus on these issues. Here, as the representative Klinge also said, there is a practice that has been criticised, because it is quite extensive, but also because the practice of storage is very diverse. In addition, we are on the technology side in continuous development. The everyday life of children and young people today looks quite different from the everyday life of children and young people just five years ago — and it is totally different from 10 years ago. This means that we won't get one answer that will apply forever, because evolution will continue in the future as well. It only emphasizes the importance of looking at those issues, looking at the issues relating to children and young people in particular, because we are adults, who are responsible for their privacy. I would therefore like to address the proposals we have made, and I am pleased that the Central Party has also raised some of the issues that we raised in our original proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1066	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1073	But dear friend, if there's something privacy doesn't need, then there are several rounds of honor words about how incredibly important it is. I believe that if you came from outside without knowing the setting, and listened to the articles in this case, this would have been the case that had clearly warmed up support in the hall on today's file map. So it's not. He says he's quite united in the proposals, he could vote for them, he just doesn't. The representative Tajik says that the proposal she and her party will support is quite tame. Yes, one must not continue to be tam, one can vote for what is not tam. The representative, Mr. Werp, thought the warmest defence of privacy and the proposalers' intentions in the Chamber today – all in that tone a government party should be for its support party three days before they risk being thrown at it – yet he concludes by voting against it, because he will go even further than what he is very much in favour of. One should not have been so long in Stortinget until one knows that a proposal of the type ‘be sure to evaluate the government’ is hardly something that will go beyond two holistic reviews. Let me briefly also go into the argument at the different points here. Firstly, it is argued – against the proposal for a review in the justice sector – that it is more important to see the wholeness. That's what I'm talking about in a lot of ways. I've also been a little uncertain about that proposal, based on that foundation. I think there is a much greater need for a holistic proposal, but now there is no more than one year or two since SV submitted a proposal for a holistic review here, which the same parties also voted against, and then one could, if there was a significant argument, have suggested a holistic review in the setting, instead of a review only in the justice sector. But you don't. The reason why health is so important is that there is often no single step in the field of privacy, but the sum of many steps over time that poses the challenge. The second argument used is that it goes extremely fast. Yes, it does, and it may be an argument to keep looking at the laws, but in my view, it is also an argument to get someone outside to review the field and see how it works. And then we're at the third point, that it doesn't hurt if the department goes through the laws. But this is a typical area where the individual department is primarily concerned with controlling its own sector. That's how the administration is like we've organized it, while privacy is typically a cross-sectoral concern. Therefore, it is important that a casual and often non-sectoral take-up is considered to be of general interest. The other thing that I have experienced is that in one sector, those who work there will, after all, be most concerned with the achievement of the goal within their territory. The primary purpose of the Ministry of Justice is to fight crime more than to preserve privacy. The primary purpose of the Ministry of Education is to keep learning to students, after all. The primary purpose of the Ministry of Health is to improve our health. In that case, if you only look at it in a sector-wide way, it will often override a more general perspective. That's the central argument, as I see it, relatively often to bring in someone who can see it superior from outside, as a commission can. Finally, the proposal I think is clearly the best, and it is difficult to understand that there is no plurality, that is the proposal for a data protection commission for children and young people. These are quite new questions, both because children meet them earlier than before, and because it has been a tiring technological development, and probably also a very purchasing power development, which makes children meet them faster through technology. It is also especially because they are concerned, they do not have the ability to protect themselves and take positions through democracy in the same way that we do. It's us, parents, who do it, like big-time representatives, who are elected here, and then it can actually be especially important to take care of them. I understand these are difficult evaluations - very difficult. This is precisely why it is important to go into them thoroughly and holistically. That's a big question. I would also like to add that I think it is a pity, when a party makes such a good, well-worked and innovative proposal as the proposal for a data protection commission for children and young people, that one could not quite get it settled in Stortinget, when there is no very heavy impact on anyone. So we're going to support the proposals, which I think are well-founded in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1092	I am not quite sure whether that is the basis for the strong criticism that the latter spoke against the commitment shown by the Chair of Privacy. I think it's a good thing that everyone who's been up here shows how important privacy actually is, how far forward in consciousness it is in all fields. I think that's very positive. Then you can think what you want about the various proposals, but what all the proposals show is that they will have no effect in some areas, in other areas. That's what might be a bit of the challenge of this, because I fully agree that privacy is under pressure, not least because we've had a tearing technological development in recent years, and it's going to continue. But is it really under greater pressure in the field of justice than in other fields? Isn't it also under strong pressure in the field of health, in the social field, on social media, with the way private companies collect data about us and use it in active marketing to influence our choices? Is there really less pressure in these areas? I'm not sure. So, if I were to choose between the proposal promoted by the Left and the one from the SV, which was dealt with here earlier, then at least SV had a broader approach to this, which might have been – I think, then – even more relevant. That's where I think the committee lands on a proposal that's very good, because it'll help you get a review of what's the basic data protection law. Then we have to do it in a proper and thorough way, and it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence to contribute to it. I believe that such a review can at least provide a good basis for discussion that is wider than the proposals that the Left has promoted. I have great sympathy for them, and I really feel that everyone who's been up here has. I would like to mention that there are several people who have been involved in police methods and the development of methodology. There is no doubt that Stortinget has received several methods that also have a privacy page. That's why I want to remind Stortinget that in the field of justice we're going to reach, among other things. evaluate the Communication Control Committee three to five years after the entry into force of the new methods of hidden coercive measures, we shall evaluate data readout separately within five years, we shall now implement a recently adopted data protection legislation, on which the representative Klinge was involved, and the Lightne II Committee's investigation into digital border defence shall be followed up by the Ministry of Defence, which also raises very important fundamental data protection issues. So in the justice field, there's also some ongoing processes that will go into that a commission might have to touch. It is not unnatural to assume that some of the new instruments that a person considers might be able to push privacy in the field of justice will have a working time before a Commission may consider whether the effect is proportionate to the potential challenges that are also created for privacy. I have to say that I'm actually excited about the debate that's been going on here, I think it shows up some of the important dilemmas that you're facing. One shall not only have efficient, modern systems, one shall also ensure privacy in a good way. I think it is most relevant to go through a law – which is not really old, in our law collection, the Law on Personal Information is a relatively young law – to see if it has followed the swings, given the development of technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1103	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1109	We have heard several times the Council of State talk warmly about privacy, both when he was a magnificent representative, and now as he is the Council of State. We hear that today, too. We hear a government council talking very much about privacy, and it's not least talking about a privacy commission. But it seems to him that the Data Protection Commission could be a good idea if it hadn't just been as clever as the Left suggests, since we're just proposing it in the field of justice. Now it is primarily the area of justice for which the Council of State is responsible, and no one can predict the future. But here and now, today, the Council of State is the Council of State. The possibilities you have when you are a State Council are quite significant in the matters you burn and want. So I just want to ask the Council of State: if he thinks there should be a privacy commission in a broader area, why doesn't the Council of State do anything about it when he's the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1116	I have not said that I believe it must be or should be a data protection commission. I've just said it's a proposal that's not so stupid. It may be wise to have a data protection commission at some point in time. It is not certain that the time is now. That is why I think the model on which the committee has fallen, where one goes through what is the legal basis, is quite good. I very much sympathise with both the proposal that the Left has promoted, and the SV that has previously promoted, relating to data protection commissions. But I'm not convinced. Firstly, I am quite sure that sneezing into a Commission scope will not help to get the whole picture in place. I think that is necessary – if you are to have the overall, overall perspective on privacy that I feel is also Iselin Nybø is looking for. So in the field of justice, I have been very clear that I believe a data protection commission limited to the field of justice will not be relevant right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1123	A little about the privacy of children and young people: What separates children and young people from the rest of the population is that they depend on what adults decide on their behalf. What is also new in the everyday lives of children and young people is the technological development and access to the Internet, to smartphones and to everything that is now a natural part of everyday life, but which creates quite significant challenges – whether it's filming in the shower or things that happen on the Internet. It's a very different everyday life for children and young people today than just a few years ago. That in itself, I think that must be the basis for looking at children and young people a little bit. Now the council has said that he thinks the proposal Stortinget is going to go into today, is very good. So I'm just wondering, how did the Council of State intend to follow up on this, and especially with regard to children and young people, who are not only within the remit of the Council of State, but who are nevertheless at least equally important?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1130	It's too early now to say how it's actually followed up. But there will be a variety of opportunities to follow it in a thorough manner, ranging from a simple review of the law to a thorough investigation of a complex sample. Which model we finally choose, I almost have to get back to. The size has not yet been decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1135	From the Committee majority and also from the Council of State, reference is made to the EU Data Protection Regulation, which will be implemented in 2018. They say if you're going to have a broader commission, it should wait. I understand that a person would like to see it wide, but what I would like to see in the right-wing council's mind or opinion is: is it really the case that setting down a data protection commission in the justice sector and one for children and young people would be wasted because one should later set down a broader commission? I want to see it as an absolute advantage to look at these two very important areas, and that work could also be used in a later, broader Commission for Privacy. As I said in my article, it is important to get started quickly, otherwise the work could not be used later, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1140	I don't think there's any work on privacy that's been wasted, because privacy will have many different facets, and there's a lot of different angles into a data protection issue. What has to be the relevant question is whether that's the way you want to go on because you want to achieve something completely concrete. I'm not sure if it's putting down limited privacy commissions in some, small areas. I believe that Mrs Klinge and I have a relatively similar relationship with the European Union, but I think the representative should take on board the fact that the European Parliament's commitment to privacy is quite strong. There are also major privacy discussions in the European Parliament, and the regulation that has now been adopted, to be implemented in Norwegian law, will also strengthen privacy in our legal area. It's not the same thing that all national recordings will be discarded. The question is just whether we get out of what we actually want to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1145	Now I don't want the Council of State to sit in the same position in three years' time or something like that, but to the extent that the Council of State does, according to the debate that has been going on here today, will he be the first to take the initiative to set down a broad data protection commission based on the fact that the EU has come further in its work than Norway has? What does the Council of State want?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1150	I have no glass ball that can give me any indication of who might take that initiative, but I think at least there is reason to stress that a data protection commission, whoever would put it down when it might be reduced, must have a broad approach and a good basis for the job to be done. Then it might be wise, I think, that some of the things that you think can help challenge privacy have actually got some working time. I believe that we have quite good data protection frameworks in Norwegian law today, so I think it is fundamentally reasonable to have a review of whether we have solutions that are optimal. I have said from this pulpit in the past that I will not oppose the creation of a data protection commission, but I believe it is important that it has a mandate that actually takes full privacy into account, not just parts of the perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1156	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1163	I signed up with the representative Solhjell’s posts – a post I really need to praise. It was an excellent post on a theme, and it showed a strong commitment, which I really share. Nevertheless, we are likely to come to a different conclusion, for reasons that I cannot fully understand – precisely on the basis of the representative’s own arguments. The main argument of the representative, Solhjell, was that privacy is a cross-sectoral issue. Of course, of course, quite clearly – privacy is about more than just looking at the individual parts of social machinery and how it intervenes in people's everyday lives, and how technology and the security curtain affect this. We must regard privacy as a central democratic value that must have a strong position in any case. Then we have to think completely. Then we have to raise our eyes. The Data Protection Act is, of course, a cross-sectoral one. It's technology neutral. It intervenes in the activities of all departments. That's exactly why the committee points out: let's start there. The mission is on the law side, and the way there can go via a data protection commission. I don't ignore it at all. Maybe it's even completely natural. But with the decision today, we say that we look at the whole thing, and we point directly to the legal basis. There are many good solutions and minority proposals in this case. But individually, they're pretty much below what I'd call cross-sectoral perspectives. They are important individually – important individually – but this case, as we experience it, is about the big picture and that from this room we give a clear signal to the government: start working on a review of data protection legislation in all sectors. That's what this is about. It is not about excluding any field, but we point especially to children and young people. So let's do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1174	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1189	The ability to orient and benefit from an increasingly complex and legalised society depends, among other things, on the availability of information. of the economic origin of the individual. For those who do not have an economic opportunity or for other reasons do not have the ability to orient themselves in a rapidly growing legislative and regulatory framework, free legal assistance is a crucial asset for well-being, which it will be necessary to further develop and further adapt. At the same time, changes to the free legal aid scheme have economic consequences. The extension of the free legal aid mechanism is therefore both a welfare and, to the most extent, a budgetary issue for the Storting. Voluntary organisations are an important complement to public supply. The establishment of several co-located legal aid measures, following the model of the Jusshuset in Oslo, is important and to which an overall judicial committee is positive. It is important to ensure good framework conditions for voluntary organisations, and longer-term agreements should be sought to ensure predictability, while ensuring quality. Free legal assistance is an important guarantee of legal certainty. It is based in EMK Article 6, which gives the individual the right to a fair trial. In several cases, the EMD has argued that, in the circumstances, the State is obliged to provide access to free legal assistance to the extent necessary for effective access to justice. Free legal aid helps to ensure that the individual is granted his/her rights. The need for legal aid is high, especially for the most vulnerable groups in society. Today's society is becoming increasingly complex, and it may be difficult to find out what rights you have. In addition, today’s system may give adverse results, e.g.: in child distribution cases where one party is entitled to free legal aid, the other party is not entitled to free legal aid because his income is just above the amount limit. It is therefore appropriate to examine whether the scheme should be amended in order to become more equitable. Social dumping is also a major problem in some sectors of the labour market. I am therefore pleased that a Joint Committee will consider whether there is a basis for looking into whether the free legal aid system should be extended to several areas. Social dumping is an example of such an area. Although the Committee does not recommend the adoption of the draft representative as it exists, a broad majority of the Stortinget would like to see a necessary review of the free legal aid system. Some time ago, a NOW came up on the same topic, and there is a clear call from the Committee in its recommendation for a decision, that this is something we ask the government to review and come back to. The opinion of the Committee shall be as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the free legal aid system to see whether it should be extended to several areas, or changed by other means, in order to ensure that it is as fair, targeted and effective as possible.’ I also note that there has been a proposal in the matter on the table today, among other things. from the left, which in many ways is quite equivalent. I hope a unanimous enlargement can join the Committee's position. I think the signals are both clearly given to the government and well received, and that this is something that the government will follow up. And of course we appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1209	This is a matter where there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee that there is a need to look at the free legal aid system. I take the floor first of all to promote the proposals we have submitted. The reason we have submitted our own proposals is firstly that we believe that our proposals are clearer and pointed and ask the government to return to Stortinget. The proposal on the first-line service is promoted because we believe that the first-line service itself is important to those who need assistance. Justice is important to many because we live in a regulatory society, which has its positive sides, but which also has some challenging sides. There is a need for resources for many to get involved in the legislation. And when we say that one thing is to be right, another thing is to get right, it's so that having right can be free, while getting right can cost a lot of money. That's why the free legal aid is important to people. I would also like to say that today there are some challenges of free legal assistance – related to which areas are covered and in which areas we can get help. I am therefore pleased that the Committee points specifically to one area that we know has been challenging, and there are child distribution cases in which one party is granted free legal aid, while the other does not get it, even if you are only so far beyond the limit of not getting it. Then one party can run the process for free, while the other is in a situation that can be quite despairing. We have also received feedback from Juss-Bus and others on non-resident labour who come to Norway and who are not paid, and who are therefore in a difficult situation – both because they are not actually receiving their wages and because they are not being helped to claim their right to pay. Therefore, there is a need to look at the boundaries, but also at what is covered by free legal aid. I also think it is important to point out many of the offers that are out there. One thing is what lawyers do through free legal aid, but there are also good and important offers through Juss-Bus, Jusshelpa, JURK etc. These are often linked to big cities and often where it is a legal faculty, but that's absolutely something we have to look at further. I'm addressing these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1234	The representative Iselin Nybø then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1240	I take the floor just to give an explanation of vote. The Labour Party agrees with the rapporteur, who gave a good start on the matter, on the importance of this, that there is a welfare system, but that at the same time it is important to look at how this welfare system takes place. It is important for the Workers' Party that we investigate as much as possible to get all aspects of legal aid policy with us. That is why I would like to signal that we are voting in favour of the Left's proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1249	Also the Right agrees that there may be very good reasons for reviewing the free legal aid system. It might sound like a slightly worn-out speck, but it's really one of the arrangements that can be called a foundation in our legal system. We have seen over several years that the cost of the plan has increased and increased and increased. I think – and I dare say – that we have come to a level that must be completely at the top of the world, relatively speaking. So we know from parties who know that money doesn't necessarily equal 100 pst. effect, that there may be very good reasons to see if this money is being used correctly. Is the scheme too broad? Does it hit too fast? Does the right person hit? Is there a field of action that has been omitted that should be included? Is there any matter that should be taken out? These are very interesting questions. We know that with changing social conditions and not least increased legalisation in society, we would like to have problems related to relationships such as rent, family law, children's rights, foreign property, labour law, etc. I know that the right is among other things. has an ongoing programme discussion on free legal aid for the recovery of wages and salaries, which is an ever-increasing problem. So this is very interesting to see. The right-hand side rarely supports proposals that become very concrete, right above the table, in this form of Document 8, so we will not support it, but in the committee we have joined a broad review. We think that makes sense. With regard to the proposals from the Left, we do not see that there is a major difference in reality between them and what is already in the Committee's position, so we stick to the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1258	When we get into a difficult legal situation, most of us who are not specialists on the topic themselves feel quite disgusted. If you also have little money, it's even worse. In such situations, it is important that people are helped to safeguard their legal rights, whether it be children's issues, social dumping or the recovery of wages. Free legal assistance is essential for everyone who is entitled to justice, regardless of the thickness of the wallet. In a liberal state of law, people own their own civil-law conflicts, and they can decide for themselves how best to take care of their interests, but it does not get practiced if you cannot afford to engage a lawyer. Then you can be run over. That is why my alternate, Une Aina Bastholm, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/European Greens, has promoted a concrete proposal, of the kind that the Right usually does not like to support, but which they are very much supporting here, which we are pleased with. We are therefore very pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs is in favour of reviewing this issue and justifying it in a way for which we have great sympathy. Earlier today, Stortinget has extended the law on legal aid. Several areas should be included. Social dumping, social services, family reunification and expulsion are examples of case types that are critical of those affected but for which no free legal aid is currently provided. In such cases, the community should establish itself. If an unprofessional employer refuses to pay the right salary, it is exhausting not to reach out if you cannot afford to hire a lawyer. Legal assistance in complex matters is expensive, and the current income limit, set in 2009, is so low that many with low incomes fall outside. Therefore, we really hope that the review that the Storting today asks the government to do will result in an increased income limit. That is why, together with SV, we have promoted two loose proposals. One is: ‘The government is asked to propose a sharp increase in the income limit for free legal aid in the state budget for 2018.’ The second thing is: «The government is asked to ensure that the income and wealth limits for legal aid are adjusted annually in line with the basic amount of the population’s money [[G]] We are also pleased – and support – with the Left’s proposal to consider an extension of the field of action and an investigation into the first-line service, and we call on the Stortinge to vote in favour of them. Those with the greatest needs often do not even know that they can get help. This is very clear to those who are involved in free legal proceedings. This accentuates social differences, and the Greens therefore hope that the government will ensure that there are outreach measures to provide people with the necessary knowledge of their own rights. In the European context, Norway spends a lot of money on legal aid, but the question is whether the money is being used correctly, as several speakers have mentioned earlier. The Greens think it's obvious that we need a first line service. It may include an initial instruction period; a telephone number may call for general guidance on rights, e.g. In Finland, the first line service has saved society from excessive costs and strengthened legal assistance for the population. The Greens very much appreciate the fact that the entire Judicial Committee believes that the non-profit organisations working for free legal assistance should have long-term financing agreements, and of course we agree to that. But when free legal aid is first granted, it is important that it covers enough legal hours to ensure proper handling. If qualified lawyers are to continue to take relief cases, there is a need to increase the remuneration. Today's out-of-date rates make it in many cases impossible for people to get good enough assistance. It weakens legal certainty and may also result in more cases than is necessary in court, with the costs involved. Norway’s legal aid system has been criticised by the UN several times. The Green Party therefore welcomes the opening-up of the proposal we have made, and we ourselves strengthen the 320 million scheme in our alternative budget. kr. I take this up with me the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1290	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1296	In this case too, there is very broad consensus in the Committee on the importance of free legal aid, and the conclusion of the Committee is a good conclusion, where a requested government has a review of the legal aid system in force. I believe that this proposal also provides for an overall review to see if there are areas that are not doing well today, i.e. perhaps providing legal aid in areas where legal aid should not be provided for the future, so that a person is given a full review of whether or not it should be extended, and whether or not it should be restricted. I would like to point out that the rapporteur also pointed out that the cost of legal aid has increased dramatically in recent years, both because there have been some extensions and perhaps also because people have become more aware that they actually have these rights. We need to have a sustainable model of how free legal aid is to be provided for the future, which is, as it says in the proposal, ‘most equitable, targeted and effective’, because that is what must be the purpose of the scheme, and it may be good to have a review of it. As far as we are concerned, we have already started so little with this work in the department, for example. through our dialogue with the Association of Lawyers, which has also been involved in both scope and device, so the work has already been kicked to the fullest extent possible. But what the Storting now asks for is a complete review, which I have to ask to spend some time on, because it's a hard job, with great economic consequences. I also want to point out the amazing work done by non-governmental organisations in this area, who receive support, both Juss-Buss, JURK and Gate Lawyers. They're gathered in the Jusshuset in Oslo and have a great deal of legal aid for very vulnerable groups. And that's what's really the point. It's important not only to be right, but also to get right for those who belong to the most vulnerable. So once again, I'm very pleased with the committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1313	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1327	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1336	I think I should start with the following comment: I heard the Council of State was up here and said he was very pleased with the job the Justice Committee had done in several cases today. It's possible it's going to shock the Council of States, but it's the Justice Committee too, just so it's clarified, so there's no doubt. So to the matter. The Labour Party has promoted one thing with two proposals. One is about extending the use of electronic control, and the other is about people being taken with user doses, mainly those, being more likely to receive treatment rather than some form of criminal punishment. I could have said that this was to turn open doors, but I don't intend to do so, because I have great respect for the suggestions that have been made, and the intention behind them. There is no doubt that it is important for the legislator to have a wide range of measures that can be applied to the various offences. Because people are different, you have to have a breadth in the chain of punishment, if not you're going to bomb and in worst cases create new crime. That's not the goal. The goal is the opposite, to make sure that it doesn't happen again. In this way, an electronic control system — nationwide — has been established since 2014. There is already a programme for those with drug problems entering and leaving Norwegian prisons, and one has it for per mille driving — so the width is certainly already there. But, as I said, here is a proposal for a representative to go on with two of those elements. The committee's recommendation for decision I in the vote is that what is essentially proposed 2 by the Labour Party – at least as I see it. As far as the rest is concerned, the Department is working with an extension of electronic control. It was also a topic when this committee was not so long ago discussed the Announcement. St. 12 for 2014-2015, on settlement capacity, where several of the lots pointed out the possibility of looking at its extension. That's what the department is working on, and it's going to come back to. I feel that the proposals of the Workers' Party are well taken care of. I expect that the Labour Party itself will justify why they think it is necessary to have them in addition to what is already happening, and recommend that this committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1349	The Labour Party believes that we should continuously and responsibly develop the forms of criminal enforcement in Norway. That is why today we are promoting a proposal that consists of two parts: more treatment for people with contemporary criminal and drug problems, and we are proposing to extend the electronic compensation system to caretakers after careful assessment. There is a great deal of progress both in criminal care and in multi-disciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. We have had our own medical speciality, and we have introduced alternative forms of criminal enforcement, such as juvenile punishment, judicial programme for drug offenders and changes in penal zoning practices, as the Workers' Party proposed in 2013. Persons with serious and persistent drug abuse will benefit better from help other than prisons when they are taken for possession and use of small quantities of drugs for their own use. They live their lives largely at intervals, between all services, and many have more illnesses — drug use and mental illness are most common and occur at the same time. Such a rounding does not provide lower crime and more security, which is an important expected effect of the punishment. In the past, the Labour Party has proposed to employ several groups of professionals in prisons and to have a more individual and adapted rehabilitation. In addition, we have proposed measures to improve the reconciliation of women. This has been voted down by the majority. With our proposal today, we want those taken for use and possession to be given more treatment and closer follow-up instead of imprisonment. Both proposals are based on the fact that the Workers' Party wants people to be able to return to society through the punishment and contribute in a similar way to others – without crime. Varethekt is a serious intervention that causes special stress, but also related, heavy loads. Self-depression among detention centres is higher than in prison, and an important sign of the severity of this reaction. The Labour Party still sees the need to put people in custody, but we want to adapt this form of reconciliation, so that we prevent and rehabilitate better, and that we free some places of custody, even if it isn't the large number. Despite the fact that the Right is not mature enough to adopt a new policy today, we have to assume that the Council of State, Höie, will have an impact on its party. Hopefully the result is just that it'll take a little longer. After we've waited a little while to the Right, once they've made up their mind, I expect them to follow the Workers' Party, so that together we can run the criminal policy in a more humane direction. So just a few comments on the statements made by the rapporteur, which believe this is covered by the Roman Numeral Decision I: It is true that the committee broadly agrees that one needs to do more, but we believe that our proposal is more focused and more focused on what is actually the reality out there among these groups today, and we are afraid that it will drown in a more comprehensive assessment of the entire reconciliation process. I refer to the proposal from the Labour Party and the proposal we are dealing with with the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1366	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1371	It is good proposals that have been promoted through this proposal for a representative. I look forward to the further follow-up of the government if possible extending the electronic compensation system. The evaluation of criminal execution with electronic control carried out has highlighted a number of positive findings. I also expect that to be reflected in a new case from the government around this. When it comes to criminal prosecution of people arrested by the police for the use and possession of drugs, I can signal that I and the faction fully support the action of our Minister of Health – but then as a play-out for the programme work of the Right – that such crimes must lead more to the aid of the public rather than to punishment. Penalties and fines against drug use and possession often do more harm than benefits to both society and individuals. The main objective of drug policy must be to limit the adverse effects of drug use on both society and the individual. I agree that drug use is primarily a health problem, and it is on the basis that the problems can be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1396	This is a very straightforward matter. I have to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this important matter. Through the examination of this proposition, we adopt the implementation of the amending Directive to the Re-use Directive. The purpose of the Re-use Directive is to facilitate the provision of as much public information as possible for further use. It is a unanimous committee that supports the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1407	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1425	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Margunn Ebbesen on behalf of the Right Party and the Party of Progress the proposals No 4 and 5, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an experience summary of the settlement conditions and security challenges related to prisoners convicted of ideological terrorism, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with results and proposals for appropriate solutions to these challenges’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1453	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «Act No 22 May 1981 No 25 on the procedure of criminal proceedings is amended as follows: The fourth sentence of the first paragraph of Article 455 is replaced by the following: For judgments which decide to execute subsidiary prison sentences under § 52, first paragraph, point (a) or point (a) of the first paragraph of § 52c, the remainder of the sentence after parole is released under the second paragraph of Section 44 of the Penal Code and the sentence under the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Criminal Code, a decision is taken on the completion of the criminal justice system.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Act 18 May 2001 No 21 on the implementation of penalties, etc. It shall be amended as follows: Section 5 is replaced by the following: §5 Professional and administrative management of criminal services Crime prevention consists of levels of government at the level of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare and at the local level. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare is responsible for the professional and administrative management of criminal justice. The Director of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare is appointed by the King. Section 6 is replaced by the following: § 6 Authority to take decisions Decisions under this law are taken by the local level. In cases where convictions are under 18 years of age, a copy of all decisions taken at local level shall be sent to the Directorate of Criminal Affairs. Paragraph 7(g) is replaced by the following: (g) The Directorate of Criminal Welfare, even if the time limits laid down in the third paragraph of Section 35 of the Administrative Act have been exceeded, may, on its own initiative, reverse a decision taken by the subordinate body to the detriment of convictions or prisoners whose specific reasons so warrant. Paragraph 7(a) third paragraph is replaced by the following: The information shall be provided without undue delay. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare shall decide who has the power to obtain and receive the information referred to above. Paragraph 37, fifth paragraph, first to ninth sentences, is replaced by the following: If the total exclusion from the Community exceeds 14 days, criminal services shall decide whether the prisoner should continue to be excluded. If the exclusion exceeds a total of 42 days, the measure shall be notified to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. Notification shall then be given to the Directorate at 14-day intervals. The first subparagraph, points (a) to (e) may only apply beyond one year if the prisoners so wish. The decision to exclude persons under 18 years of age shall be notified without delay to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. Crime prevention shall continuously assess whether there is a basis for maintaining the measure. If the exclusion exceeds 3 days, criminal services shall decide whether to continue to exclude the prisoner and to notify the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. If the exclusion exceeds 5 days, a new notification shall be sent to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. A new message will then be sent to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare at 7-day intervals. Paragraph 37, fifth paragraph, ninth sentence, adopted by Law of 20 January 2012 No. 6 and not entered into force shall be replaced by the tenth sentence at the date of entry into force. The first sentence of the sixth paragraph of Section 37 is replaced by the following: If partial exclusion from the Community exceeds 30 days, the measure shall be notified to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. The third sentence of the eighth paragraph of Section 37 is replaced by the following: Crime prevention may extend the exclusion by up to 3 days if specific reasons so require. Paragraph 37, third to fifth sentences, tenth paragraph, is replaced by the following: The decision to exclude persons under 18 years of age shall be notified without delay to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. Such deferral may be maintained for up to 2 days. The local level may extend the exclusion by up to 2 days if specific reasons so require. Paragraphs 38, fourth and fifth paragraphs are replaced by the following: The use of safety cots shall be considered on an ongoing basis and criminal services shall decide whether the measure should be maintained after each 24-hour period. The measure shall be notified to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare when the use of cot exceeds 24 hours. For prisoners under 18 years of age, the use of cots shall be immediately notified to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. The use of the safety cell shall be considered on an ongoing basis and criminal protection shall decide whether the measure should be maintained after every three consecutive days. The measure shall be notified to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare when the use of the security cell exceeds 3 days. For prisoners under 18 years of age, the use of a security cell exceeding 24 hours shall be reported to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. In case of use of a security cell against prisoners under 18 years of age, the Criminal Service shall decide whether to maintain the measure after 24 hours. Paragraph 44, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: If the parole officer, after having held an intrusion or established conditions after the first subparagraph, breaks down the terms and conditions, the criminal service may bring the case before the courts with a request for re-entry into prison for full or partial completion of the remainder of the sentence. Paragraph 44, third paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: If the criminal service brings the case before the courts after the second subparagraph, the execution of the sentence shall be suspended from the date on which the application is sent to the court.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 20 June 2014 49 on the Law on Contradictory Procedures is amended as follows: Paragraph 31, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: If, after the youth coordinator has held a conversation as referred to in the first subparagraph or established conditions as referred to in the second subparagraph, the judgment again infringes the requirements or conditions laid down in points (a) to (d) of the second subparagraph, the youth coordinator may, with the consent of the police and the criminal services, convene a new major youth meeting, or transfer the case to the criminal service with the suspension that the case is brought before the court with the request that the conditional prison sentence be completed in full or in part in accordance with Section 52(c) of the Criminal Code. Once the youth coordinator has transferred the case to the criminal services with the suspension of bringing the case before the court, the execution of the sentence shall be suspended from the date on which the application is sent to the court.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1603	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1615	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the criminal justice system on the basis of the objectives set out in the proposal and the alternative models of organisation that have been discussed, as well as a three-level model. Cooperation bodies, non-governmental organisations, employees’ and user organisations should be involved in the evaluation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1744	First above III, Section 1 new second paragraph, Section 20 new second paragraph and Section 30 third paragraph new third sentence. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1758	The fourth sentence of the third paragraph of Section 29 and the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 58 and the third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 58 are added. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1773	The remainder of III and I to II and IV to V shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1783	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1793	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1836	It is first contested by Section I, paragraph 9, third paragraph. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1850	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1861	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1871	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1907	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1917	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1953	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e1963	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2017	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2027	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2093	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2104	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2146	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it. [[(from the hall):]] The left is also opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2162	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2176	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2185	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that documents relating to the performance of the royal house’s official tasks be governed by public law.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2208	The representative of the Harek Rivers should have voted against, but voted in favour. Then it's fixed up. There will be 92 votes against and 9 votes in favour, and the proposal by the Left is therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2260	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mrs Klinge on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council calls on the Presidency to submit proposals for a mandate and composition for a Commission to assess the vulnerability of privacy in the justice sector in a digital age, where the Commission is fully aware of the need for, and the impact of, provisions and measures already implemented, assess key principles of privacy in the justice sector, and to promote proposals for strengthening the privacy of citizens in the light of the changes in the laws introduced in recent years to combat terrorism and other crime.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2289	The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2314	A total of five proposals were put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for a ban on camera surveillance during school and kindergarten education.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2345	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to develop internal control procedures specifically adapted to schools and kindergartens to facilitate compliance with the personal data law and regulations.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2364	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Ministry of Justice and Defence to send out a circular intensifying the practice of camera monitoring at schools in line with the assessments of the Data Protection Authority.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2383	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks it to set up a Data Protection Commission for Children and Young People’. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2402	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make an assessment of, and to come back with proposals on, the regulation of the possibility to publish children’s health information in social media, when sharing is not based on journalistic purposes.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2438	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left the proposals No 3 and 4, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a sharp increase in the income limit for free legal aid in the state budget for 2018.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the income and wealth limits for legal aid are adjusted annually in line with the basic amount of the population’s money [[G]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2469	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a separate case to be brought back to the Grand Duchy with a review of the Free Legal Aid Scheme and considering its extension to several areas such as criminal law, foreign law, labour law and home rental law, or whether it should be amended in other ways to ensure that it is as fair, targeted and effective as possible.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2488	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a detailed investigation into the organisation of the first-line free legal assistance service.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2537	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come to the United Kingdom with a case in which changes in criminal law have been assessed for persons taken by the police for the use and possession of drugs, towards more treatment, close follow-up and less use of prison.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2563	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting, in which the basis for the use of the EK is extended, so that more people can come under the scheme and that the EK can be used as a care substitute.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2671	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2682	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-02.ana.ud228e2696	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
