ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e42	Honourable co-representatives! On 24 December 2015, former Depositary Representative and State Council Turid Birkeland died. She was a human being who filled the room – whether it was with co-workers around a table in the cooking restaurant, with friends around the kitchen table, in a gym during a school election fight or at the king's table as a state council. Turid Birkeland sat on the Stortinget for 3 years and 147 days, from spring 1986 to autumn 1989. She was a member of the Church and Education Committee. She chose to continue her political commitment as head of the AUF rather than continue to apply for nomination to the Grand Duchy. Gradually, Culture-Norway also got great joy from her. She was reforming. She became head of culture in the NRK. She was the director of the Chamber Music Festival in Risør and was the director of the Riks Concerts. Norwegian cultural life has lost an engine and an inspiration. Turid Birkeland was more than smile, laughter and radiance. Turid Birkeland had a tremendous power, a force she spent on matters she burned for. Politician Turid Birkeland set a trail where she got engaged. Turid Birkeland did not go after simple victories and was impossible to put into booth. She fought for a radical school policy, a liberal refugee policy and said yes to the European Union. Turid Birkeland was such a strong supporter of the European idea that she travelled home from Italy, the country that gave us the Treaty of Rome, to lead the Yes action in the many called foreign Norway. She attached herself to new groups and the frontline of the EU case in a way that she could only. Suddenly, rockers, writers and many other cultural people accepted the EU. Turid Birkeland fought for the 'radical' yes. As Minister of Culture, Turid Birkeland was clear. She has the ability of the few to be held and respected by both the cultural elite and the people. Turid Birkeland organized chamber music festival with Leif Ove Andsnes in Riser with the same naturalness as rock concert with Morten Abel on the centre stage. Turid Birkeland was a political man, but she was also an organizational man – a trustee. And as all the Gerhardsen youth know, no honorary title is better. Turid Birkeland was ready for continued political commitment as she walked away. She had been open about the disease and accepted to stand for election for the Oslo Workers' Party in the municipal elections. She was elected and delighted to contribute to the further development of the capital of the urban development committee. Unfortunately, this was not the case. An intense but too short workday is over. Today our thoughts go to Turid Birkeland's son, other family and close friends. We bring peace to Turid Birkeland's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e80	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Erik Lundeby For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen For the county of Rogaland: Øystein Langholm Hansen
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e100	The representative of Mr Lene Vågslid will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e103	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Christian Tynning Bjørnø, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Stine Renate Håheim, Lise Christoffersen, Sonja Mandt and myself for measures to prevent the clawing and regulation from being an obstacle to a good offer for children exposed to violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e108	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e122	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s examination of assistance for good governance and anti-corruption in selected co-operation countries. It is well known that corruption and abuse of power prevent the effective use of national resources. It inhibits economic growth, and it contributes to an unfair distribution of resources in society. Unfortunately, this is widespread in many countries, particularly in poor developing countries. Strengthening the institutions of the country concerned and establishing good governance are important and necessary to promote good and sustainable development. Since the turn of the millennium, both good governance and the fight against corruption have been among the highest priority areas for Norwegian aid. St.meld. No 35 for 2003–2004 and Innst. S. No 93 for 2004–2005 may be the major documents that have clearly identified and defined governance and anti-corruption as priorities for Norwegian assistance. Thus, 2004 is the starting year of the National Audit Office’s study on assistance to good governance and anti-corruption in selected co-operation countries. The survey period for the Riksrevision has been the years 2004–2014, with a total use of 26 billion in Norway during this period. NOK 26 000 or SEK 26 000 million. kr, for good governance and anti-corruption measures. The aim of the National Audit Office’s study has been to assess the quality, achievement and sustainability of selected projects in the four cooperating countries of Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Uganda and Zambia. These countries alone have received SEK 2.74 billion. kr to good governance for the period 2004–2014. The Committee sees it as a major challenge to follow up on the control and reporting of the use of anti-corruption aid and good governance when such measures covered 100 countries and 1,750 individual projects in 2014. Unfortunately, the Riksrevision's findings are discouraging. It is quoted from the main find: The assistance for good governance and anti-corruption is little strategic. The majority of the surveyed governance and anti-corruption projects have poor target achievement and low sustainability. Poor planning weakens results orientation. Lack of follow-up increases the risk of poor achievement. Poor system for assessing target achievement provides little learning. In this context, it may be appropriate to refer to the way embassies in the countries surveyed assess the impact of assistance on this area: ‘The Afghanistan Embassy considers that it is difficult to assess the extent to which assistance has contributed to a positive change in the Governing Board. With the assistance of both multilateral programmes, bilateral initiatives and military presence, it has been dismantled, and neither comprehensive nor sustainable. Assistance has little to do with the traditional social structures in Afghanistan. [[...]] The way in which part of the assistance and military presence has been organised has also opened up opportunities for private enrichment and corruption.’ [[...]] The Western Balkan section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shows that there is very little achievement at the social level in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Too little has happened in terms of political and economic development in the country since the end of the peace process in 1995. However, in some areas more has happened. The state judicial system is consolidated and Norway has developed a good reputation for its efforts. The Embassy in Bosnia-Herzegovina is an example of this. This sector has received substantial support and is considered to be a success to date. However, sustainability is threatened by political developments that undermine the authority of the Bosnian court administration. Lack of political will can be a real risk that the results of the measures on good governance and anti-corruption will not be sustainable. From Uganda, the Embassy highlights the importance of helping to build up control bodies that are important for good governance and anti-corruption, such as the Ugandan National Audit Office, the Anti-corruption Agency and the Human Rights Commission. However, the embassy points out that these organisations have limited influence because of the lack of willingness to change in top political management. Therefore, it is difficult to assess the effect of board assistance, and Uganda has evolved towards a more authoritarian government. The Ambassador in Zambia stresses in an interview that all assistance must last for a while and be of a certain size before seeing results: ‘The Agency is satisfied with the results of the institutional support granted over time to the Zambian National Audit Office and the tax administration, and considers that it can refer to results at product and user level. On the other hand, the extent to which this results at social level and has led to the actual improvement of standards and good governance and anti-corruption is more difficult to assess.’ The majority of the Committee would point out that the low level of achievement and sustainability and, in part, the lack of knowledge on the objectives achieved in this type of assistance make it appropriate to consider whether the assistance should not be directed towards other humanitarian purposes where it could have a greater impact. Such a turnaround of this assistance for more humanitarian purposes may also have a positive impact on the improvement of governance and anti-corruption work in the long term. The Committee has noted that in 2015 the Ministry would revise the legislation on grant schemes and that this work is intended to result in stricter quality assurance requirements throughout the project cycle that receive support. Over the 10-year period to which this survey relates, Norway, as mentioned above, has given 26 billion. kr in aid for the development of good governance and anti-corruption work, or SEK 2,6 billion. kr on average per year. This is a great deal of money for these purposes alone, and one must expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be able to follow up the different projects and have a system that makes it possible to assess the impact of the use of these funds. The National Audit Board recommends that: a strategy based on key objectives and instruments in the area of knowledge base for governance and anti-corruption assistance in the main beneficiary countries is considered to be strengthened, inter alia. with analyses of policy economy governance practices are improved by ensuring a good target structure for the projects, clear criteria for confirming that the objectives have been achieved, and better reporting by beneficiaries in accordance with this basis for self-learning is strengthened by introducing a structured, systematic and documented assessment of target achievement in individual projects, as several countries and donors have done. The Committee endorses the recommendations of the National Audit Office to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e194	There are few policy areas that depend more on trust than on assistance. We give a lot of money away, and it's important that we trust that they go to the people they're going to, where they're going, and do what they're going to do. That's why it's right and important that we have a big device to make sure that's right. Few policy areas have such an important administration, not just for control, but for trust. This trust is high in Norway — fortunately — but it is vulnerable. Therefore, it is a bit funny that several parties could not stand behind the remark that a competent and stable manning capacity is needed throughout the aid management. I don't understand. Controlling the effectiveness of assistance is a demanding exercise. The development, strengthening of political and organisational competences, the degree of democracy, respect for human rights and economic development in a country do not depend only on the level of assistance alone, although it is often a means of achieving it, and the objective of assistance is precisely that. It is not that a country remains poor and corrupt if aid fails, or that it becomes rich and corrupt if it comes out of poverty or benefits better. That's why it's a conscientious work the Riksrevision has done. But it is – what to say – in particular that it is only the Workers' Party, the Left and the SV that are united about the reality description in a note. There are many different types of assistance. The majority of the committee, to which the rapporteur so well explained, wants to convert aid for more humanitarian purposes, as they say, ‘to obtain human rights for those covered by the assistance’. The reason why the Workers' Party is not involved in this comment is not that we are against measurable, successful aid projects that promote human rights. On the other hand, we are of the opinion that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs does not necessarily have the task of providing technical advice – and perhaps not having that competence, in all humility. In addition, we look at the assistance that builds organisations, builds institutions, democratic structures and stable states, as well as so important for respect for human rights and acute humanitarian aid. Humanitarian aid helps people, structural assistance helps countries where people are. I would remind you that this report is about good governance and anti-corruption, and good governance and anti-corruption do not necessarily come from humanitarian aid. We're for both. That is why we are concerned with a system that can be followed, with a good control system and with ensuring the professional competence of assistance. The best advice on which assistance works best does not necessarily come from the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e216	The rapporteur gave an excellent account of how efforts have gradually been developed to ensure good governance as an essential part of Norwegian aid policy. I think we all agree that it is absolutely fundamental and necessary in a good governance that it contributes to the building of institutions, in particular legislative institutions with legitimacy and popular anchoring, and that the central institutions of the state are organised in a way that respects the division of powers between executive and legislative authorities and the principle of the judiciary, the independence of the courts and the integrity of the courts. Maintaining central rule of law, as experienced at individual level, is also the very testing of lacunases. Furthermore, good governance involves transparent, efficient and professional management, which meets the needs of the population and guarantees fundamental human rights. Then you can ask, why are you not more upset and indignant that these goals are actually not being achieved? I noticed that the previous speakers would invite a small party political competition about who had designed the best comments, but I think it should also be stressed that the Committee has read and understood the management report, which is quite critical of the follow-up that our Foreign Ministry has shown for these ten years – or the lack of follow-up, we might say. So if you first invite to a party political estuary here, we can then draw attention to who has been a foreign minister, who has clothed these bodies, at the time this report period describes. It is quite remarkable that we should be teachers of the development of good governance by others, and then we have so many weaknesses in our own grant management. And it's probably also saying that there's a lot of political power that disappears out of the business when the department's management also changes. I see that although former Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre was here at the opening of the meeting, he obviously did not find time to follow this debate, which is actually an epilogue to Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre's management of the legislation during the period he was responsible for. Indeed, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the grant manager who has been deleted from this report. It's 26 billion. kr which has been used for more than 10 years and which has not been visibly useful. You ask yourself, how can we have a political culture in Norway where you don't more regret that 26 billion. could have had an alternative use? I should like to see more sectorists in the Chamber here today, because it could be that in the different fields, culture, well-being, health, you could also have needed 26 billion. kr for alternative consumption. But we ourselves have developed a culture that is based on eating, and then there's a management report that hardly raises anyone's eyebrows. This is not reassuring for the trust to be built between the population – the taxpayers – and the way we are managed. I repeat, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under its then management that is in the shot line, because they have not done the duties they have under the Financial Management Regulation. They should have obtained reports from the beneficiaries, which would have made it possible to assess the extent to which the objectives of the grants are met. The target achievement criteria should be concrete and precise so that they could be followed up without disproportionate costs. Beneficiaries should be required to submit a report according to these criteria. At the same time, reporting requirements should not exceed that which is reasonable in relation to the benefit to the beneficiary of the grant. And then we've also been given more research materials along the way, through several interesting studies, which just give us important explanations as to why it has proved so difficult to strengthen good governance in developing countries. Governing powers exploit weaknesses in the management of public resources to acquire public funds, which they then use to maintain their base of power, and that is a characteristic of those systems, that is. systems based on personal relationships and obligations rather than on formal rules, often expect those who have access to income, typically from abroad, means of assistance, etc. to use that income to buy loyalty from their own trailers. Researchers who argue for this fundamental political explanation of the relationship between power relationships, poor governance and persistently high corruption believe that donor-funded technical projects have very limited opportunities to succeed in strengthening governance and reducing corruption. It is essential, and that is also what we have been trying to suggest in the comments, that it is essential that such insights actually apply to the development of the future aid policy. We can also look at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has guidelines for reporting on achievement. A final report should have been submitted by the beneficiaries upon completion of a project. This report should contain information on what was achieved in comparison with the objectives of the plan. According to the Grant Management Manual of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norad, the case handler shall further assess the reported results, whether they comply with the objectives as defined in the application. Significant deviations, either reported by the recipient or detected by the case handler himself, shall be followed up further. Then we can look at two cases: Afghanistan and Bosnia-Herzegovina. Thus, in the case of the former, the document analysis for the five projects in Afghanistan concluded showed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not assessed the achievement of the objectives of any of the projects by comparing the results achieved with the objectives set out in the plans. One project has an indication of the final report from the project that it is difficult to get a clear picture of the results – as usual, small/low, based on the effects of the programme. The objectives are clear, but not what has been achieved. The closing document states that ‘there are indications that the programme has focused a lot on products rather than on user effects’. The second example is that the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ closing document refers to an evaluation that concludes that since the working conditions in Afghanistan are among the most difficult in the world, for which understanding is required, the results are considered to be in line with the objectives of the agreement, thus missing information to draw the conclusion that it is in order. That is a rather bold conclusion. The second thing I want to point out in this context is the projects in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have written assessments of the achievement of the target in any of the completed projects in the country. There are no reports of meetings, endorsements, notes, letters or final documents showing such assessments. No closing documents have been drawn up for any of the three completed projects in the sample made here. The conclusion of the projects by the Ministry is limited to a letter to the beneficiary of the grant where the reporting is accepted. These projects required final reporting to refer to both the original objectives and the results achieved, which I was in the process of doing, and as a result also explain any deviations. None of the three projects have final reports that meet any of these requirements. If we then summarise the report, we see that the vast majority of the projects surveyed have poor target achievement and weak sustainability. Sustainability is defined here as the ability to put permanent track in the management after the end of the assistance period and the end of the project. However, I would like to highlight one point of light, and it is precisely the project in Bosnia-Herzegovina that concerned the construction of a state court, a national lawyer – i.e. a public prosecutor – that is the point of light here, and perhaps one of the reasons why it went relatively well there, that it was always a strategy to phase out international support in the final phase of this project, so that the institutions, on the assumption, went over to finance their own state budget. I think the proposals that the committee has carefully suggested, and which I am not going to refer to here, are essential for the further work, but I would also point out that when we are faced with building a good governance abroad, we must at least keep order in our own house and take care of our own management system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e244	The theme here, about good governance and anti-corruption, is characterized by good intentions, while it is a very, very demanding area. The National Audit Office has looked at four countries, and I want to defend that when previous Norwegian governments have had a significant commitment in this area, it is naturally linked to the fact that we have a large economic balance with many countries, both directly from the Norwegian state and through the remainder where Norwegian controlled companies operate in these countries. One of the four countries that have been assessed is Afghanistan, and there has been no lack of statements from this pulpit on how we should help to get a more competent governance as the basis for our participation there, and thus as the basis for improving people's situation. So there are many good intentions that lie behind the effort to assist in governance and anti-corruption. And that's -- as many people have been about -- a lot of money. It is said in the report that it is very difficult to follow up on this, for it includes 100 countries and about 1 750 individual projects, and the results of the Riksrevision report are weak, as the representative Tetzschner was involved. There has been poor target achievement, there has been weak sustainability, as it is so well called, and the assistance has been little strategically structured as well. These are the abstract concepts that we have to go deeper into in order to see what's concrete, but when you go into the concrete, the image doesn't get less challenging for us who want good results. There are good results, by way of exception, as mentioned in the state court/republic attorney in Bosnia-Herzegovina, but this has been an area where an aggregate increase has been committed to making an effort. I'm going to assume that a total mass has been aware of how difficult it is, yet we've done it. Now we've got the report, and it's a reflection, I think, regardless of the party political color here. It is an overall committee which has noted that the Riksrevision recommends that assistance should be concentrated on fewer projects and the number of countries. It's a statement that I expect the government to take with me. Then the representative Jette F. Christensen asked why not more – all parties – were involved in a comment where, among other things. said that a ‘competent and stable manning capacity is needed throughout the assistance management’. In the case of the Centre Party, it is a mistake that we did not join that remark, a mistake that I cannot explain how it has occurred. Finally, what we are talking about here is part of our international solidarity thinking, and as the representative Jette F. Christensen was in it, assuming that it must be alive in the Norwegian population, it must have confidence, one must have good results, and such a report as we have now received helps to change that. In contrast to the Workers' Party, the Centre Party has agreed that ‘it should be assessed’, as it states, it is not stronger than that, ‘it should be assessed whether the assistance should not be directed towards other humanitarian purposes where it can have greater impact’. It is based on a recognition that, despite the considerable efforts we have made on governance and anti-corruption, experience shows that the results are modest – to be diplomatic. Then it is not so strange that one in relation to the superior, namely to ensure trust in our international solidarity, asks that one assesses changes in it. It's a dilemma that we're in here. After all, we will continue to participate in different ways, with contributions from the Norwegian state and Norwegian companies in a number of countries that are reasonably corrupt, and therefore, as a consequence of their participation, we need to have an eye on how the board works. However, in line with this, it is on the part of the Central Party that we believe it is right to consider whether aid should not be directed more towards humanitarian purposes, perhaps more concrete purposes, which directly help those in need of assistance in the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e259	The National Audit Office’s examination of good governance and anti-corruption assistance is an important and at the same time disturbing document. It is important because the development of a country is greatly influenced by how they are able to translate citizens' wishes, dreams and interests into good, effective and democratic governance, ensuring that there are good control procedures and a legal system such as the ability to guarantee rights and obligations. It is important because the development of a country can be effectively slowed down and often stopped if power and money are systematically diverted, so that resources are not used to solve societal challenges but to enrich individuals and their contacts. It is important, but at the same time worrying, because the National Audit Office has systematically revealed that it has failed in many of the aid projects we have undertaken to support the development of good governance in our countries of cooperation and to enable countries to effectively limit and combat corruption. It has failed the thinking behind the projects. There's little strategic thinking behind what it's investing in. There is a lack of comprehensive analyses of political power in the countries concerned — analyses that would be crucial to achieving real change. In particular, resources are spread across a wide range of countries and projects despite an explicit objective of concentrating efforts. Too many projects have also lacked clear objectives for work – objectives that could help manage resources and track progress. It may almost seem that the goal has been to do something, while little attention has been paid to what will come out of it, and whether it will lead to changes that can persist beyond the project period. The Left supports the Committee's comments on the Riksrevision study and the recommendations made by the audit. Work must be driven by clear strategies and priorities, and a better knowledge base must be provided in the political, economic and social contexts of the countries concerned. Clear and good targets need to be set and effective ongoing reporting on the objectives achieved – not least, systematic learning needs to be worked out, both for those who are doing well and for those who are failing, so that Norwegian assistance to good governance and anti-corruption from day to day and from year to year can contribute better to development in our countries of cooperation. Finally, let me link two reflections to the report and the matter we are discussing today in Stortinget. Firstly, when a country such as Norway, with a well-developed governance system and in a world context small challenges in terms of corruption, undertakes the task of contributing to the development of governance and anti-corruption measures in countries with significant major challenges, the very arrangement of the projects should be exemplary, and all actors should strive to see that the implementation of the projects as such set an example for our countries of cooperation and was a visible ideal that pointed out where we are going. Unfortunately, we cannot be proud of what Norway has achieved here, although, fortunately, among the projects examined, there are clear exceptions that show that it is beneficial. Secondly, when the Committee, in its comments, requests that assistance be considered to be directed towards other humanitarian purposes with a greater chance of effectiveness, this should not be seen as a matter of importance for good governance and the fight against corruption. However, there is a clear marching ground for all those who work with this kind of assistance, from the ministry and down to the implementation of each project, to become more aware of what is going on and to take the necessary action. If this does not happen, resources need to be better applied in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e272	The objective of development policy is to contribute to sustainable economic and social development so that people can work long-term out of poverty. In those countries where one has seen that one has gone from being a developing country to becoming an intermediate country, it is characteristic that they have developed a fairly good governance. This with anti-corruption work is important, and we know that in order to attract investment and to create a high-growth economy, good governance, predictable framework conditions and the fight against corruption are essential. Corruption and abuse of power hinder the effective use of national resources, hamper economic growth and contribute to an unfair distribution of resources in society. Widespread corruption is an expression of poor governance and a barrier to democratic development. Lack of political and economic opportunities, weak legal states and serious violations of human rights are among the causes of conflict, migration and organised crime. A well-functioning country is a prerequisite for ensuring a good framework for business and civil society. The interaction between these actors provides the basis for development. At the same time, as the Riksrevision also points out in its report, there are many other factors than assistance that will affect the quality of the governance of a country. Good governance requires legislative institutions with legitimacy and grassroots foundations, and central rule of law principles are respected. No matter how well planned and implemented each programme and project is, it only has limited effect if the authorities do not pursue a policy of development. This reflects some of the challenges of assistance. This is something we include in our assessments of land and project efforts. In order to improve contextual understanding, we have started working on policy-economic analyses for focus countries, as both the National Audit Office and the Committee have discussed. The Riksrevision findings are based on the review of overall governance and selected projects in four of our cooperating countries. Of course, we take with us the lessons that are now contained in this report, and what is in the Committee's position. I agree with the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that it is demanding to follow-up government assistance in nearly 100 countries. This has also been addressed through increased concentration of assistance, the establishment of focus countries, the reduction of the number of cooperating countries, and not least the reduction in the number of agreements. In 2013, we had nearly 7 000 different agreements in the area of aid management, and there were 116 countries in which Norwegian aid went. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has proposed limiting the number of co-operation countries, as known to the UK – it has been dealt with in another committee. We made a moderate concentration and suggested that we go from 116 countries to 85 countries. This was passed on to us in Stortinget, but with the exception of the voluntary organisations. There, Stortinget said that they should not relate to this country’s proposed concentration. We also know that many of the projects that have been evaluated and are part of governance assistance are done through non-governmental organisations. I also believe that operating nearly 7 000 contracts is simply too much to follow up properly. It takes a lot of capacity. Therefore, I have announced that the goal must be to reduce the number of agreements by at least 20-30 p.m., and I hope the Stortinge support in that work. In order to achieve the improvements addressed by the Control and Constitutional Committee and the National Audit Office, it is difficult to operate with 116 countries and nearly 7 000 different agreements. I ask you to understand that. We are constantly working on improvements in administrative practices. In 2015, the Ministry reviewed all the legislation governing the grant schemes. Consequently, stricter quality assurance requirements have been introduced throughout the project cycle. This includes requirements for ex-ante assessment and performance framework as well as follow-up. New schedules have been launched. It has also been negotiated with the UN organisations on better framework agreements. I notice that the Committee joins the recommendations of the National Audit Office. We are, as I said, in the process of using this work for further improvements in assistance. I also record that both the Committee and the National Audit Office show an understanding of the challenges and dilemmas of aid work. Demonstration of the results of assistance to improve governance sets can be difficult, even with enhanced management discipline and increased understanding of the context. There are severe balances in the use of the assistance funds. We know that the success of a good system of governance, building capacity for civil society, doing anti-corruption work, is essential for a country to put in place the framework conditions necessary to get out of poverty. So the question is, how do you manage to use assistance to secure those processes in these countries, so that human rights, anti-corruption work and good governance are started, and those processes are started? I think you have to be so honest to say that this is of course a much more demanding area than going in and for example. building schools, drilling wells and contributing to an electricity infrastructure network. I also think it is important that these projects should be sober when setting targets. There's sometimes set targets that are difficult to measure afterwards, measure whether you've achieved what's been the thinking behind. I think it's a real debate to have in Stortinget, if you think that with the various risks involved in supporting organisations that work against corruption, those who work for better governance, it's so demanding that you don't need help with it. I believe it is essential in many developing countries to succeed in the anti-corruption work, with good governance. Much of this can happen and should be done without assistance, but also using parts of the aid budget to strengthen civil society in developing countries that are concerned with these issues, as well as human rights, I think that should continue to be part of the Norwegian aid effort. But it has to be arranged differently, we have to focus on fewer countries, fewer projects, and we have to be open to it being demanding to measure. How, for example, to do this. Please note that a Norwegian aid organisation operating with voluntary and civil society in a focus country for Norwegian aid has contributed to concrete improvements in the anti-corruption work in that country? It may actually have gone in the wrong direction in terms of anti-corruption, but it would have gone in an even more crazy direction if this bet hadn't been there. There are embedded dilemmas that we have to discuss, and which I believe this report has opened up for a good discussion related to. The pressure on the humanitarian budget is very increasing. When you look around, not least in our neighbourhoods, there is no doubt that more of the aid budget in the years to come must and will go to help people in acute need. It's a humanitarian imperative. To ensure that states that are weak, not collapsing, are a good investment for the people of those states, but also in our own security in the situation we have been in. But I want to add that in weak states, poor governance and corruption are also elements that contribute to these states not getting on the feet, and that they are weak states. So how do you set up assistance so that it can also stimulate you to strengthen the forces of society that stand up for good governance and anti-corruption work? These are important areas, and I believe that this report has made us in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs more aware of how this money and resources are used. We have made the improvements that I mentioned, but we do not go from a situation where it has been difficult to measure results one day, to say that the next day everything is in the best order. That's not possible. But part of this work must be more sobering – when we set the targets, they have to be more sober, and we have to be open that it can be demanding to measure. Then it's up to Stortingen to decide whether this is a reasonable allocation of the aid budget. The annual budget debates are a good opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e300	I take the floor to respond to what the representative Tetzschner said, that I invited a party political competition about who has written the best comments. I didn't. On the other hand, I just pointed out the disagreements that exist, and that's what you're going to do in this room. The disagreements which exist in the otherwise rather unanimous critical comment that the Committee of Inquiry has rightly put in place here are two points. One is that the development of a country is not itself a test of the proper functioning of the aid. The second issue concerns whether the control committee should or may advise whether assistance should be diverted from structural and institutional assistance for humanitarian aid. This is, as Minister of Foreign Affairs Burnde points out, a very reasonable debate, a political debate and a completely fair debate to take on board the Stortinget – a debate on whether it is such that contributions to anti-corruption and good governance are too demanding. That debate is real. The Labour Party has, like Minister of Foreign Affairs, Burnde, as I hear him, taken a position in that debate. We believe that even if this report is critical, even if this report is serious, it is not that Norway can give in to the important work it is to contribute to states either not getting weaker or developing to the benefit of people living there, who will also strengthen human rights, who will strengthen the states, strengthen the institutions, strengthen the organisations and – eventually – strengthen the humanitarian situation in the country. The criticism in the report has been unanimously endorsed by the Committee. There is consensus in all the parties. It is important for all parties that there is sustainability in the aid work. That concern is shared by all parties in the control committee. That consensus is also – I must stress it – just as much as the consensus in this Chamber on the appropriations for these aid budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e311	Assistance for anti-corruption and good governance is difficult, I think everyone will recognize that. I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it may often be difficult to measure the results. Nevertheless, I think we should hold on to the fact that there are few things that are more important than building up under good governance and anti-corruption. Also in this report – although critical – which has good results both from Zambia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, it shows that there is a long-term impact that is difficult to measure, neither the importance of the funds used, nor the importance it has for countries over time. In view of both good governance and anti-corruption, there is not only assistance, but also many other instruments in all the other policy areas – in the foreign policy we conduct, in the trade policy – that we must use. I have to say I'm a little surprised at this report, that it's so critical, and that there's so little strategic planning behind the assistance we have and the policy we're running on good governance and anti-corruption. I want to take a special look at what's in Afghanistan. Norway has been heavily involved — together with our allies — in Afghanistan for almost 15 years. That there is still no clear strategy for the objectives we have, and for how we work coordinated with civil society – bilaterally, multilaterally and also militarily, which had a much greater role in the past – I think is surprising, especially in the light of the past in 2009-2010, when there was a separate Faryab strategy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the time. It was then reviewed in a report by Major General Jon B. Lilland. I myself asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence how that report was followed up, because it showed that the strategy was so general that it could not be used at strategic, operational or tactical level. I still wonder, what has been done in retrospect to follow up that criticism? And what has been done afterwards to get a clearer strategy towards Afghanistan? Although the military contribution is less today, it is still one of our main countries of cooperation. And it is equally important — it also shows the situation today — and it is equally important both for international interest and for Norwegian interest to be able to build up a state and a system of governance that can better safeguard the security of its own population, and on which a development can then be built. The criticism from the Riksrevision is timely. I think it is mild to demand that you consider having a strategy for good governance and anti-corruption. And it is mild to call for a clear strategy for our main co-operation countries, where the whole of Norwegian policy is seen – both in the general foreign policy and in the assistance we have – both bilaterally and multilaterally, in cooperation with civil society, and where it is also relevant military, to see this in context. To achieve results with other countries, which we work with most places, we need to have a clear strategy, a strategy that can be followed up and measured afterwards, and – the next element – have a learning culture that makes us learn from the mistakes we make, and that we also learn from what we get, so that this can get a transfer value to other countries, to other nations, how they operate. I think it's significant that the report I referred to, Jon B. Lilland's report, I think almost nobody will find today, if they're looking for it. It was not exempted from public disclosure, but it was definitely not made available to the public in order to go closer to it in the seams. I don't know if the Riksrevision has actually seen it. But I have it, and it's on the Left's websites -- if anyone's looking to look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e332	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e346	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s examination of the proceedings in the child protection and social affairs districts. The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to assess the length of the procedure and the productivity of the child protection and social affairs districts, as well as the reasons for the length of the procedure in the cases of coercive measures under the Child Protection Act. Children’s protection and social affairs students handle and decide on coercive measures against children, including: whether to take care of children. The case-handling period in the Netherlands has been above the requirements of the Child Protection Act for several years. However, it is problematic that the county councils have difficulties in meeting the centrally defined requirements for the length of proceedings in the ordinary cases. It's particularly serious that almost 30 pst. of the ordinary cases with the negotiation meeting in 2014 had a period of proceedings of more than four months, which causes children and their relatives to be unsure of the time during the examination of their case. The Committee would therefore stress the importance of reducing the duration of the ordinary procedure. The Committee points out that the consequences of a long period of time for ordinary cases lead to several emergencies and about half of these cases being brought before the Court, which in turn exceeds the procedural capacity of the ordinary cases. It's therefore of the utmost importance that this vicious circle be broken. The Committee has noted that the county council and the ministry disagree on what is a realistic time for dealing with ordinary matters. There is disagreement here as to whether it is realistic to hold negotiating meetings within 28 days. It is positive that all the names have fulfilled the requirement to take decisions two weeks after the end of the negotiating meeting. The Committee points out that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has put in place a number of different measures to reduce the duration of proceedings. The Committee points out that productivity can be increased by a better and more efficient treatment system. A new procedural system is under development but has been delayed. The Committee has noted that the National Audit Office recommends that the central unit develop further the means of resource use across the counties. The Committee welcomes the fact that the central unit has employed a lawyer to be used by the denominators, if necessary, to reduce differences in the timing of proceedings between the denominators. The Committee has noted that the Ministry will look at the need for training and advice to be given to the Chairs by means of simplified procedures, so as not to compromise the quality of the proceedings. The Committee has taken note of the wide variation in the contention of complaints. This gives rise to legitimate doubts, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, as to whether the principle of equivalence has been respected. A unanimous committee also refers to the recommendations of the National Audit Office and joins them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e363	It is right to say that many of the issues dealt with by the Control and Constitutional Committee are very important for Norway, for the country. We just heard the discussion about the use of aid, which is of course very important, but I start this way to say that when we are now discussing the handling of our children, there is one of the most sensitive things we are discussing. The Committee has carefully examined the report under consideration, and it is good that there is unanimity within the Committee, as the rapporteur said. I refer you to the rapporteur's review of this, and I agree with all the concrete assessments he made in his statement. I would like to say that this is a matter that has also been dealt with on previous occasions. I won't say repeatedly, but at least several times. And I cannot fail to say – and I would like to hear the reaction of the Council of State to it – that despite the fact that the Storting has pointed out some of these essential things in the past, it is difficult to correct it, obviously. There's a lot of concern, as there's reason to mention here in the Storing. There must be something in the system that is not as it should, in order to use such a popular expression, when it is difficult to correct some significant weaknesses. There are two things that we point out, as the rapporteur has said, but which I will also take up in my own way. One is, of course, breaking the norm for treatment time. Governments are very aware of this – I know it. The National Audit Office also says that the Ministry is very active in this respect. But despite that, it is therefore difficult to maintain the deadlines set. Within such a sensitive area as this, which is about children's everyday lives and their social position, it is clear that there is a great deal of concern in a welfare country like Norway. I'd also say, and I'd say it's almost even more serious, that there's very uneven treatment in the counties in terms of the amount of who gets the support, and who doesn't get the support. It is a problem that I think the Stortinget must address – as it is now called fine – to the Council of State, that this must really clean up the ministry, in a sense. We can't have it so that in some states it's easier to get along with, while in other counties it's harder to get along with. As the Riksaudition quite specifically says, with its language, it is «question whether the principle of equivalence is respected». It's a very serious statement, because it's clear that if there's a legitimate doubt about whether the principle of equality is properly maintained and respected, then we have a legal security problem when it comes to dealing with these very sensitive issues. I will listen to what the Council of State says, and I do not doubt that the Council of State really believes what both the Riksrevision and the Committee believe here. But I wish that it will be long until the Storting again has to treat, and after all, so critical to, part of the things that affect the handling of our children in everyday life – and not just our children, but perhaps the weakest among our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e383	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good explanation of the matter. I fully agree with what has been said, both by the case rapporteur and by the representative of Kolberg, because it is serious when the National Audit Office's investigation shows that all the members have significant challenges in meeting key requirements that have been set for processing time, including in ordinary cases. That's not acceptable, and we have to take this seriously and make sure that we're able to change this. When the authorities intervene in the lives of children and families, as we often do in these matters, we, as the authority, assume a tremendous responsibility for these children to experience better care, more security and a better life. When long-term authorities contribute to a more uncertain situation, with uncertainty and uncertainty, this is very serious. The time has to go down. With a shorter period of time, the children and their relatives will avoid the heavy burden of living in uncertainty during the handling of their case. Shorter procedure will result in fewer ordinary cases becoming urgent. As the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture has also pointed out, it is absolutely necessary to reduce the length of the procedure for ordinary cases in order to ensure that the aim of the Child Protection Act is to ensure that children and young people receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner. I also believe it is important that we now closely monitor developments in the counties, when they are about to take on new tasks that have been decided by the Storting and which are about being able to impose relief measures at home from 1 April. There was something the Stortinge decided, and it was also decided that there should be an opportunity not to have restrictions in relation to various relief measures – actually a little punctuated by what the government itself proposed. I'm not saying that this necessarily needs to be negative, but I think it's important that we follow developments closely, in the light of the decision that was made. The 2016 budget has been appropriately increased with a half-yearly effect on the estimated expenditure increase for the county council members, but as the family and cultural committee emphasises in its position on the 2016 budget, it is important to keep in mind whether the procedure increases due to the changes adopted and which enter into force on 1 April. So I'm asking that this be emphasized in the future. The Christian People's Party proposed, in its 2016 alternative budget, a further increase in the appropriations allocated to the counties of 10 million. kr, in order to ensure a faster procedure. We didn't get through to that. However, we hope that it will prove that, with the means at their disposal, the members will still be able to meet the essential requirements of legal certainty, that the time limits will continue to be observed in emergency cases and complaints, and that the time of the proceedings will be reduced to the ordinary cases, in order to achieve the objectives of the Child Protection Act. I have never heard that a single child or family has been better off waiting a long time in line to get the help they need – rather on the contrary. Such cases often end up as emergencies, even if they could have been avoided. That is the seriousness of this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e400	When child protection is withdrawn, it is in my experience in a situation that has been worrying over a long time. There are many people who look at situations, and who see that not everything is going to be right, but there's a lot to do before the child's protection is brought in. Nevertheless, the role of child protection is growing and is becoming increasingly important. There are more and more people affected by child protection, and the information I have from those working on child protection says that there is also a strong increase in child protection issues from our immigrant communities. This is a case that attracts considerable attention in Norway, but which also attracts considerable international attention. This is very, very demanding, and it is essential to get good solutions. The National Audit Office's report has pointed out what several people have been facing, that it has not improved significantly. There is an increasing process time, and the governance information that can shed light on the substance of the proceedings in the counties is not reliable. One has focused on the central unit of the state students, and so in sum we're in a situation where many people here point out that this is no longer going on. The report is aimed at the county council members and the interaction between the county council members and the department. But I want to focus in a different direction, and it's against the municipalities. In my opinion, the main reason for the situation we are in is that the municipalities have too poor child protection. When the municipalities have too poor child protection, this leads to so many errors, so much bad work, and so many cases that it becomes very difficult for the county councillors to fill their role. Then I hear that there are big differences between municipalities – and that's right. But there are some common features, at least after my experience, in the case of small and large municipalities, and that is that in small municipalities have a better overview. At good and bad, there is a better overview of the situation. And when you have an overview, it's also easier to get together. If you don't have an overview, if you don't have this collaboration, it's easy that you don't have enough people out there among the kids you're dealing with. So it's hard to keep deadlines, there's going to be a lot of pro forma treatment, it's going to be wrong, and there's going to be conflicts, which means that you need more time to do a good job. I would like to say that more attention needs to be paid to better inter-disciplinary cooperation between the professionals who come into contact with the people who are struggling. It's everything from midwife, health sister and kindergarten educator to teacher and doctor – the whole group that comes into contact with people, and thus at an early stage sees what's the situation, and what can be done. And if it can't be corrected without the child protection going in, well, there's a team that has an overview of the field, which leads to a quick and better result. So we have to do something about the matter at an earlier time, and then the matters that come to the council will be better prepared. A good preparation could mean that the lawyers representing the parties talk to each other, that the lawyers then come up with sensible solutions on behalf of their clients – and that by doing so, we can use a simplified concept more effectively. I think the report from the Riksrevision is commendable. But what we should focus on in the future is much more municipal child protection, and making it work through multidisciplinary cooperation. It's also quite special, what's in the Riksrevision report: ‘The investigation shows that there is a disagreement between the Ministry and the members as to whether the law’s requirement to hold the hearing is realistic or not as soon as possible and, if possible, within 28 days of the date of receipt of the case.’ As long as it's such a requirement, it's a requirement that the underlying agencies have to hold. I'm very surprised that there's a disagreement at that point. There is no doubt that there is a disagreement between the department and the authorities on this issue. From the Central Party we want to stick to the time requirements that are, given the gravity of the matter. But what's important is to get attention to child protection in the municipal sector and get to the interdisciplinary there – focus on it, so that we can intervene in an earlier and more thorough way. This will make it easier for citizens to work, in the sense that the parties will see that once this far has gone, there are solutions that should be taken much more fully into a simplified context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e427	Matters that end up in the county are issues relating to children and families that need to have a decision on a situation as quickly as possible. I fully agree with the previous speakers who say that it is an important job to ensure the legal security of the children and families – which we are going to do. For as long as I've been a politician, I've been concerned about the county councillors, that they're going to work as intended, and that children are being cared for as they should by the county councillors. That is why I launched an evaluation of the county councils in 2014. This is the first time the county council has been completely evaluated. The aim was to gain more knowledge of the further efforts to reduce the length of proceedings and to see the link between efficiency, legal certainty, resource use and organisation. In parallel with this evaluation, I have deliberately prioritised increased resources to the staff in order to reduce the length of the procedure. In the period 2012-2015, operating budgets have been increased by 30 million. kr to increase the procedural capacity of the denominators. The government has also granted nearly 35 million. kr for the development of a new and more efficient processing system. The first phase has already been completed and put into service. The second phase is planned to be completed in 2017. Increased resources and systematic work in the counties to reduce the length of proceedings mean that we are seeing a good development, and the length of proceedings is falling. But as the representative of Kolberg says, it's like that the county council has been repeatedly criticised, and we also have to remember that the Central Unit, which was created in order to get a more comprehensive overview of the county council members, has been involved in our better use of the county councils and more equal treatment in the county councils in recent years. The national audit and evaluation point to many of the same challenges and causes of the long process. The reasons are complex and may be out of the control of the name. Nothing is the same, and in addition, matters are often complex with several parties to be consulted. It takes time to find the meeting time that fits all the actors, and the private party should have the opportunity to intervene and respond. We know that child protection has often had a long time to prepare its case, and the private party has a shorter time. It is also important that all aspects of a case be heard, and that the private party be given the opportunity to put in place the people they think are important in order to get them to run their case. This we know about the processing time. Although it may be difficult to comply with the time requirements of the Child Protection Act, I would like to insist that these matters have to be dealt with quickly, as there are significant consequences for the children, their families and the work of child protection. Like several others, I'm particularly concerned about almost 30 pst. of the ordinary cases in 2014 had a processing period of more than four months. This is a relationship I follow closely and have pressure on, and we see that the proportion of cases with a treatment period of more than four months has fallen in 2015. At the same time as the period of proceedings has to end, the cases must also be dealt with in a sound, reassuring and trusting manner. Both reports, both the Riksrevision and the evaluation we have received, point out that there is potential for improvement in both the organisation and use of resources in order to reduce the process time and to reduce the large differences between the denominators. Several measures are under way: The members continue the procedure with the assistance and extend the arrangements with the ambulatory supervisor. The Central Unit has developed common procedures for the handling of cases. They are discussing which issues are suitable for simplified procedures. In particular, the new procedural system is in place, with a number of common procedures and reports. I expect the process period to be further reduced by the exchange of resources and the further development of systems of exchange of experience, uniform procedures, organisation and problem solving. The Ministry has close and good dialogue with the Central Unit about this. We have also asked the students to have increased focus on children’s participation, which will strengthen the user’s perspective and trust in the treatment process. At the same time, we need to be aware that increased participation of children can lead to more time use in isolation. Last week opened the other home page of the students, with information tailored to children, parents and others. This information shall contribute to the creation of trust and transparency. The further development and strengthening of the subjects must also be seen in the context of proposals coming from a selection that now looks at specialities in child and family matters. The committee shall deliver its opinion by 31 January 2017. Both the evaluation and the report of the National Audit Office will be important input into this assessment. Finally, I would like to stress that this is a work that I am following closely, because we know that a decision in the county has great consequences for the children and families concerned. It is therefore important that all parties are well received and heard — that they are trustworthy — and not least that the length of proceedings is so short that families are given a decision as to what the situation is going to be. I did not agree with everything the representative Lundteg said, because you have better child protection in small municipalities – or whether they are better in larger municipalities – is enough a truth with modifications. I think there are big differences among municipalities. We see that some municipalities that only have one or two employees report that there is too little time to work preventively. The main work on the child protection side is done outside the municipality. It's those in the municipalities who know the family, it's those who know the children, and the cooperation between the different services in the municipalities can help ensure safe parenting and safe parenting, which, in turn, we know creates safe children. That is why I have a strong pressure on the work on how we can achieve a better child protection in the municipalities. Local authorities have been given increased resources for the protection of municipal children, and we see many good examples of municipalities cooperating across services that are able to get in early. When there is a need for help at home, which is the most widely used measure of child protection, and when there is a need for care, we see that the municipalities that use family councils are able to put foster homes in networks or relatives. The fact that we have a strong focus on prevention is important when we look at the whole of child protection work. If we can manage to create parents who can be safe parents for their children, maybe we can avoid taking care of them where it may have been necessary before. The representative Bekkewold mentions the decision made by the Stortinget in ours, that we can now impose relief measures where parents refuse. One of the main aspects of this matter is to avoid taking care of the child, because we know that today child protection often has two choices if the parents refuse. One is to withdraw and not do anything; the other is to go to a caretaker, which can have major consequences. The imposition of relief measures on parents that lead to changes in the family can help to avoid taking care. I am very pleased that the Storting has adopted the proposal that came from our government, and I am also very pleased that we have received budgetary resources for this, which is now due to come into force from 1 April. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Becquerad, that this is an action that we need to follow closely, and we need to see if this leads to more cases in the House and what this will look like on the procedural page. I am pleased with the Committee's comments on the Riksrevision report, and I can assure the Committee that this is a work of high priority in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e489	I asked for the word in the light of what the Council of State said. My main focus was that municipal child protection is too bad. Then I became the spokesperson for multidisciplinary cooperation, and then I became the representative of those who believe that the better the transparency one has, the better is the possibility of making the preventive and active child protection function. I did not say that there was a clear link between the fact that small municipalities had a better child protection than large municipalities. What was my point was that where there was a transparent relationship, there was a better prerequisite for doing a good job, and one could do a job with less resources. Because if you have access points to people in different relationships, you can thus form a better picture of what is the situation and what is the need. I appeal that there should be more interdisciplinary cooperation at an early stage between the many who are in the public service and who are currently playing too little, and that a person should try to build up the necessary overview of the situation. I'm the first to admit that this is more demanding in towns and cities, but then one should be able to take that fact over and organize the work down to a city level, or at a different level, so that one can get the small business benefits that the overview de facto implies. That was my main point, and I'm surprised that the Council of State doesn't pay more attention to it. We see here many objections that this should be done better, but developments are going in the opposite direction, despite the fact that more resources are being deployed. Then there is a cross of thought – if one should not change the focus of how one works, for these matters are so demanding and so important. It was my main concern: multi-disciplinary cooperation – transparent relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e498	The representative, Lundtigen, said that the municipalities have poor child protection, which is why I mentioned it in my post. There are many municipalities that have incredibly good child protection, and I said it is important that we actually manage to bring forward those municipalities that have good child protection and good cross-border cooperation. I could mention the municipality of smoke. I could have mentioned the municipality of Horten. There they have one place people can turn where all the services are all together, so they cooperate. Perhaps child protection finally comes in due to the fact that there are other services in the municipality that help that family and that child before child protection comes in. There are many good examples of that. I have now had three dialogue meetings in the regions to talk to the municipalities and not least the rapporteurs about how we can manage to put in place a much better and closer cross-border cooperation where municipalities can see all the resources they have for children and families as a whole, to work with prevention and early efforts. This is something I have a great commitment to, and there are a lot of municipalities doing this. There are now many small municipalities that have had intercommunal cooperation. I think it's also important in the community reform we're talking about, which is a welfare reform, that we see that getting large, good units is part of providing better child protection. There's one thing I'll draw out in the end, and that's management. Because when the State Health Authority supervises child protection outside the municipalities, they have a clear point that says that the municipalities that take responsibility for the management also have better child protection. The municipalities in health centres use less for the protection of children. I believe in essence that we agree, the representative of Lundtigen and I, that transnational cooperation is that the municipalities see all the services they have in the field of growth as a whole, in order to ensure better both children and families and put the family in focus. Municipalities are the ones who succeed in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e525	In the pursuit of the perfect body, insecure women and men consume large amounts of anabolic steroids. In the population mouth, this is also known as ‘russians’ or ‘winny’. Stronger, more muscular, ‘fit’ and defined is the target – ‘strong is the new skinny’, also for girls. But for Espen, the doping experience and his very life ended a New Year's Eve with a lizard in his head. Anabolic steroids are needed in the human body, we also use them medically. But it is the quantity intake and uncontrolled long-term use that imposes on individuals, society and related heavy burdens and costs. Heart attacks, liver damage, depression, high levels of aggression and psychosis are consequences that are at risk of being purchased when you swallow a tablet or inject it. There is reason to believe that the combination of unstable mental states, increased aggressiveness and a rapidly growing muscle mass and force has resulted in many cases of gross violence against others, including against one’s own partner. We know that a lot of a blue road in Norwegian women comes from an ampoule team on a dirty cooker in a basement or in a garage. A Swedish study recently published in the journal Drug and Alcohol Dependence shows that early death occurs much more often among steroid users than others. In addition, there is a clear tendency for those who have experience with steroids to often combine this with the use of other drugs. First they take steroids to build body, then Viagra and hard drugs to keep self-confidence up when the steroids fail. If you first put a syringe in your body, it is no longer so dangerous what it contains. And the backers behind the sale of drugs and anabolic steroids are many times the same. It was therefore quite right and not least an important step by the Storting to ban the use of anabolic steroids in 2012. We now see results from the fact that the police have more focused attention on this field. That's all there's to it. Behind the users of anabolic steroids and tragic fates there are backers and gross organized crime that sees the possibility of economic gain on the tragedies of others. Illegal global doping crime is high, and it is also happening in our own backyard. South-Trøndelag police districts, now Trøndelag police districts, began in the autumn of 2011, after very good journalistic work by the Address Paper and Today's Business, the roll-out of an organized criminal network originating in Trondheim. On 14 January 2015, a judgment was passed in Frostating Lawyers' Law in which several defendants were sentenced to the strictest punishments for doping crimes in Norway's history. The doping investigation by the South Trondelag must be Europe's largest. A total of 131 people across the country have been targeted in Operation Gilde. The address paper recently revealed – before Christmas – that the backman, who calls himself Corleone, was never apprehended in this matter. He has lived the happy days of his life in Thailand, but is now destined to provide the chiefs of Trondheim with a great deal of doping. The penal code §§ 234–235 deals with doping crimes, of which serious doping crimes are punishable by imprisonment for up to six years. Backers providing networks in Norway are still free. These are the backers who operate in even more rougher forms than in Operation Valde, and where the quantity is significantly larger. The challenge is that the ceiling for the penalty framework has already been reached through the current judgment in Operation Valide from 2015. My hope is that the Minister also recognises the serious consequences of doping, and that the Minister sees the reality of the serious crime that is taking place, and not least that the Minister and the Office know how the Internet and the dark network act as a medium for many of these actors. In my opinion, these are several real reasons why we need to assess whether the current paragraphs of the Penal Code – 234 and 235 – really reflect the time we live in, and whether the paragraphs take sufficient account of the severity that they actually represent. In this case, it is timely to ask the question whether we have now reached the point where the perpetrators see that the punishment does not increase, even if the activity continues. It is negative for reasons of general prevention. My question to the Minister of Justice and Security is therefore as follows: Will the Council of State take the initiative to increase the penalties for serious doping crimes, or will he propose a new provision in the Penal Code?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e551	Let me first thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic, a topic that concerns a lot of individual lads, on which the interpellant was also involved in his post, and therefore I think it is sad that we have almost said the hall for ourselves, for this is a topic that should really involve. There is a broad political consensus on the importance of tackling doping as a social problem. The use of doping agents not only harms the user, but also has social consequences. In addition, a Norwegian survey conducted among young people at a session shows that those using doping drugs, often also use other illicit drugs and drink more alcohol than the average, on which the interpellant was also involved. The use, possession, introduction and placing on the market of doping agents are criminalised and shall be punishable by the seriousness of the crime. In 2015, the purchase and sale of drugs and doping drugs via the Internet was one of the main areas for which the Coordination Body to combat serious, organised, regional and cross-border crime should pay particular attention. The prohibition of the acquisition, possession and use of doping agents entered into force on 1 July 2013 as amended by the Medicines Act. The ban has proved to be an important complement to a comprehensive policy against doping as a social problem and has led to seizures in cases where a previous one did not have a legal basis for it. Since the introduction of the ban, the number of notifications has also increased, from 948 in 2013 to around 948 in 2013. 1 500 in 2014 and 2015. One third of the notifications in 2015 referred to the possession and use of different types of doping agents. To succeed in their work, the police depend on good cooperation with other actors. The customs tariff is one of several important partners, and in 2015 the customs tariff totaled about 285 500 units of doping agents, an increase from approximately 167 500 doping units the year before. The tolls revealed several large batches of doping material last year, and the largest seizures were about 209 000 units. In 2014, at the initiative of me, the police concluded a formalised cooperation agreement with Antidoping Norway. The Agreement includes cooperation on activities of common interest, including the exchange of information on developments and new trends both nationally and internationally, cooperation to enhance the competence of use, trafficking and trafficking, and the sharing of knowledge on different means of doping. Examples include the classification of new substances, the name of the preparation, the active substances, the use and the appearance. Antidoping Norway was strengthened over the 2016 state budget and was allocated 30 million. spending on games for sporting purposes. This is an increase of 2 million. kr from 2015. In three years, the subsidy was increased by 6.4 million. kr. The contribution for 2016 shall include, inter alia: contribute to a stronger cooperation between Antidoping Norway and the training centre industry, municipalities and county councils. In order to ensure a public information service on doping, the responsibility for the Doping phone was transferred to Antidoping Norway from 1 January 2016. In the interpellation, the interpellant refers to Operation Gilde, where five persons were convicted in the Frosting Law of Lawyers, among others. production and sale of approx. 3.2 million doping tablets, so-called anabolic androgenic steroids. The production and sale of doping materials took place between 2008 and 2012. It was considered to have been committed as part of the activities of an organized criminal group for the four principals of the case. There were severe penalties. The person who received the highest sentence was sentenced to prison for six years and six months. The penalties were not fully exploited in this case. The penalty for gross doping offences was then, as it is now, six years, but since the criminal offences were committed as part of the activities of an organised criminal group, the so-called mafia paragraph was applied. This leads to an increase in the criminal framework. The penalty for gross doping violation using the so-called mafia paragraph was prison for eleven years. Today, a similar offence can be punishable by imprisonment for up to 12 years. I therefore do not agree that the ceiling for punishment in such cases was reached in the so-called Gilde case for those who were convicted after the so-called Mafia paragraph. Therefore, I do not believe that it is appropriate, in the light of this one judgment, to consider a higher penalty framework for such cases now. The Norwegian criminal law tradition provides for penalties within relatively liberal criminal frameworks. This means that in most cases the penalty is much lower than the highest possible penalty. A penalty framework of six years — or 12 years, if one applies the penal code §79 — will provide room for high penalties even in very serious doping cases. But it may seem that a crime is so serious, or that so many crimes have been committed, that one also approaches or reaches the top of this criminal framework. The aim of penalties is, of course, to adapt the penalties to individual criminal circumstances, but with a clear maximum limit set by the legislator. I would like to stress that this is an area to be followed in particular, and to assess the need for changes on an ongoing basis. One reason for assessing an increase in the penalties framework may be new knowledge of the prevalence and adverse effects of doping, another being that more often cases of criminal penalties are being put under pressure. What I think we especially need to have our eyes open to is the professional and often organised crime, which also includes, to the greatest extent, doping: the backers and others who profit significantly from this harmful business. In the context of the criminalisation of the use and possession of doping drugs in 2013, it was noted that doping crime provides considerable economic benefits. Calculations made by the customs office, based on the 2010 street value, showed that the profits of anabolic steroids made from doping powder from China were four times higher than normal profits on heroin and cocaine. Kripos notes that doping crime is committed within a wide range of environments in Norway. At the top are organised criminals who specialize in selling drugs and drugs on the Internet. The networks involve known criminals who are involved in drugs and doping crime, but also relatively unknown persons who are mainly involved in doping crime. The special feature of doping crime compared to drug crime is that organised doping crime involves a group of users who are not known for other crimes and thus often appear to be resource-intensive. When people are recruited into doping networks, there is a risk that they may come into contact with criminals who also engage in other types of crime, and in this way doping crime for some may become a kind of entrance sport, or a springboard, to other types of crime and also into the use of other types of drugs, such as drugs. drugs. Developments and changes in the criminal framework often take place over time, but I believe that today we have a law that has a sufficient framework as it is intended to hit. However, one must, of course, follow the development of criminal measures in such cases and, where appropriate, propose changes where necessary. That is why it is also very positive that the representative, Mr Tung, has taken the opportunity to have a discussion in the Stortingen on this, so that the Stortinge can also show whether they have a special view of the level of penalties they themselves have adopted for a short time. I often think it is natural to gain some more experience with these penalties before any changes are proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e583	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for a good answer. I don't agree with all the considerations, of course. Today we can read on the front page of the Address Paper that the suspected backer of Operation Gilde, a man named Corleone, is now under arrest by the Thai authorities. He is in custody and is ready for deportation to Norway for questioning and legal prosecution. Since 2008, the man has neglected three significant police investigations and is suspected of, among other things, introduction of 34 kg of doping raw material. It is 34 kg of doping raw material that has caused considerable damage and costs to the Norwegian community and to individuals. This is, as I said, more serious cases than what we saw in Operation Gilde, and Trendelag police districts deserve great credit for prioritizing this matter as much as they have done. It is not an end in itself for me to have the highest possible penalties for various crimes, but at the same time we must also have a system of punishment that takes account of the seriousness of the crimes, also of other crimes, and not least of adequate general prevention considerations. For gross doping crimes it has not been like this in my opinion. State Attorney Unni Sandøy, who also represented the accomplice in the proceedings in Operation Gilde, confirmed in an interview with the Address Paper that the penal framework for gross doping crime is too low and that it does not reflect the time in which we live, especially in view of the use of the Internet as a medium, and that the mafia paragraph was also included in the criminal investigation, including in the context of that argument. I am somewhat disappointed that the minister is not willing to look at the criminal framework or, if necessary, introduce a new provision. The Minister himself says that we should follow developments closely in the future, and that if we have sufficient knowledge of the consequences of doping, there may be reason to change the criminal framework. I believe that knowledge is on the table today. The second reason for the Minister to follow the matter closely is that one must also look at the severity of matters such as Operation Valid and others. I do not agree that the penal framework should be at today's level. I believe this is essentially important to show that such gross crimes can actually lead to longer penalties than six years. Letting criminal networks escape cheaply is the same thing as not taking the consequences and the knowledge we have today, into us. This will, of course, benefit the backers, but it will not least benefit users who suffer considerable consequences in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e596	I agree that progress is fast and that we must therefore also follow up on these kinds of issues. However, I do not agree that progress has gone as quickly as the representative, Mr Tung, said. After all, the size has assessed doping crime, including gross doping crime, against other types of crime in setting penalties. I do not think that is the basis for saying that, after one has dealt with one case, the criminal penalties as such are too low, especially in a situation where the highest penalty in the case to which the representative refers is above what is an ordinary offence, i.e. over six years, which is the penalty for gross doping crime, because one is part of an organised criminal group. The penalty rate at the time the case was dealt with was 11 years. Now, the penalty framework for gross organised doping crime, where Section 79 of the Penal Code applies, is 12 years. In the case in question, the highest sentence was six and a half years. This also means that there has been no significant pressure on the criminal framework in this case. It's a little over half of what the penalty framework allows. So I agree if you come into a situation where the punishment framework is gradually under pressure, that you also have to adapt to such a situation. I do not exclude that the new knowledge that has partly come, but also knowledge that will come, will lead one to look at the gravity of doping crime in a way that is different from what you are doing now. However, it is part of a much larger discussion than that which has been the starting point of the interpellant in this one specific case. I believe that Stortinget has had a reflected view of this. I also believe, as I mentioned in my speech, that the view of penalties is evolving. We have also seen in a number of other areas that the Storting has been concerned with tightening up the penalties. It could also be a current tool here. However, I do not believe that we have the knowledge today that would indicate that there is a basis for substantially extending the criminal framework. But then I also assume that a little bit of the interpellant's point is that she wants to increase the penalties for gross doping crime as such, which today is six years old, while I have been concerned that a very quick comes in a situation where these are actions that can be affected by § 79, and then suddenly there is a penalty framework of up to twelve years. That, I believe, reflects the level of penalties that would make a great deal of sense. At the same time, I have no problem seeing that one here needs to carefully assess developments in order to see whether the exit penalty level of six years for gross doping crime should be raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e611	When I came into the hall and saw how few things were here, I thought first of all that the number of people in the hall doesn't always reflect how important things are, but then I came up with a story about Asbjørn Jordahl, who put on the Grand Council of the Workers' Party. He was from Kristiansund and was well placed in the Justice Committee at the end of the 1970s. When he was to hold his debut post, there was no one in the hall. Then he looked at the president and said, "President, this is going to be between us." One is not tempted to do it today, but I came up with that story. I will start – after that story – by thanking the interpellant for raising the topic for debate in the main hall. The issue is more topical than ever, and unfortunately, the use of doping has not been reduced in recent years. As long as we can't counteract this obscurity, we get it back in terms of expenditure on other parts of the health budget. Adverse reactions in the form of psychiatric problems are well known. There's something that's putting a lot of money on the individual suffering and society. Longitudinal loops or highscores may cause many to be tempted to make irrational choices. In today's society, there's a witness that the steroids are being translated online. Young and unknowing souls are lured into taking shortcuts to achieve honors and quick results. Such behavior must be condemned in all environments. The use of steroids to achieve a body-sideal is increasing, not only through online purchases, but – as the interpellant pointed out – organised criminal groups are also behind much of the activity. As I see it now, there have to be several levels of work. Obsessive work among children and young people is an undertaking. It must be done through both schoolwork and sports, where one must focus on the dangers of using doping and steroids. The school staff also has an important job here to inform and uncover. Young people need to know that they can destroy their lives by taking such substances. Most people are aware that heavy drugs have major harms, but steroids too can be very dangerous. Increased mental problems, physical distress and increased risk of suicide are some of the problems. I want to encourage the Council of State to talk to its colleague, the Minister of Health and Care, to look at the possibility of launching wide-ranging action campaigns. In addition to the ongoing work, we need to look at the law: Is the current law good enough? Is the penalty level correct? I mean – like the interpellant – that it's possible to do something here. A higher level of penalties could have a deterrent effect and can help to measure severe punishments to the back. Many would say that the penalty level has no effect, but I think we, as legislators, have to see that this is an increasing problem, and we have to make sure that the law is harmonised with the time we live in. That is why I believe – like the interpellant – that there is a potential to improve the law in this area. Finally, we're not going to accept the evolution that's now happening. We have to make sure to reduce the number of young people and others who get their lives ruined. In addition, we need to ensure that the police have both knowledge and resources to uncover matters and to ensure that the backers are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e628	I think this is a very important topic, and it concerns – which was also addressed by the Council of State – groups that are not necessarily involved in criminal matters in other ways, but are concerned with training, building bodies, and that can be entangled in something much more serious than they understand. There are also so many different doping preparations that there are substances and products here that are unknown to users, and I think many of them are not quite aware of the seriousness of what they are going into when they are offered to buy and test this and hear that way you can build muscles in a fast way. It's very serious -- it's both unhealthy and dangerous to themselves and very serious to society, this in these young people, as it often is, can end up in. What I would like to bring in here, too, as it is open to a slightly wider debate on the phenomenon in the inter-pellant and state council posts, is cooperation with the training centres. The arena for this type of contact, turnover and such will often be the training centres. There is a scheme called the Clean Center, and the last time I got into it, there were 367 training centres that were part of this Clean Center scheme. There were some complications with the Data Protection Authority and how they could build up records of what they discover and people they register are at risk or are doing. But the last time it was reviewed, in 2014, none of them had found the basis for reporting any facts. In April 2014, it was said that one centre wanted to report, and there was a discussion about the centres' cooperation with the police and to report when they discovered relationships with their users, their customers. How should this be developed in conjunction with the training centre industry? Within Working, there is something called Active Training to get more systematics in the will to report and cooperate with the police, and to get all the training centers to have equal practice and not be for detention in addressing these issues internally, but also by reporting to the police. State councils mentioned the number of reported conditions, but I would like to know if the Council of State has any knowledge of whether the proportion of reports contributed by the training centres in 2015 has increased – for the figures I have since 2014 – and, if so, whether the Council of State has any idea of strengthening cooperation with the training centre industry around taking up the information, facts or information they provide. It's obvious that they're the first line of work on these issues, so I think that's something of the key. I agree that criminal reactions will also be preventive and deterrent, but I believe that the very most preventive thing is that it is cooperation through the Clean Centre system and all the training centres that are there, but at least not reported cases in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e641	As a politician in the South-Trøndelag, when I was a politician in the county municipality, we started a work with Antidoping Norway – an attitude-creating work to reach high school students between 16 and 19 years of age and in one of the perhaps most vulnerable periods of life in terms of forming their own bodies. It was important for us in the South-Trøndelag that our students – from Hitra to Meldal, Rissa and Åfjorden – knew that if you went to a training centre and heard the word “russians”, it was not about our neighbours in the east, but about a doping preparation you can get bought to develop your muscles, and what consequences Russians could actually have for them. I would like to thank the Minister for the debate, but I would also like to remind the Minister that we are discussing the doping rule here and not the mafia paragraph. It is not really relevant in many ways because it only applies in special cases, nor does it take sufficient account of the fact that the Internet has become a significant channel for sale, use, production and networks for doping. I think it's a pity if today's punishment framework will be a drag in future lawsuits against the backers in serious doping cases, and it's also a shame that the prosecutions should have to lean on other paragraphs to actually give the backers the punishment they should get. So I would encourage the Minister of Justice to continue to follow developments in this matter carefully. There's a lot going on, and there's a lot of economic gain in running as a professional backer in a doping network. The consequences see young women and men in the mirrors every day, and not all the young women and men are among us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e652	Let me thank you for the debate. I'm very glad that there were some more people coming along, because, as the representative Klinge also said, there is not always a match between the number of people in the hall and the importance of the topic being discussed. This is important, also because it affects a lot of individuals and families to a lot of people. That's why I think it's important that we've had this round. To the interpellant tongue, I just want to say that it is necessary to look at the penalty framework for gross doping crime along with § 79, because often there will be a situation where § 79 can apply. That means a double penalty, from six to twelve years. I think it is relevant in an interpellation debate on the overall level of penalties for doping crime. I think we have to have both of those perspectives when we talk about what's reasonable punishment. That was also the starting point of the interpellant on the actual interpellant. So I'm very happy that more people now have noticed that this isn't just about punishment; it's also about prevention, about information, about cooperation and about attitudes. There are many who can contribute at many different levels. Cooperation with physiques and not least, as Jan Bøhler had in mind, cooperation with the various training centres is important – and having an active information work that can be further enhanced, not necessarily because doping is taking place in the training centre, but because many people who use doping have a meeting point with many training centres in one way or another. Being able to prevent by getting people to know what the consequence of going into such a type of race is actually, before they've started on it, it's all, the most important tool we have. Cooperation with both training centres and Antidoping Norway is central. But there is also cooperation with municipalities, for example: the example of the representative, Mr Tung himself, where the South Tronde team has set up cooperation with the schools to draw attention and information on an important issue so early that one can hope that one will help young people to make the right choices. Several municipalities should also be included. Then I can't respond specifically to how many reviews have been submitted regarding this type of crime from the training centres, but there is well reason to believe that there has been no revolutionary development from 2014 to 2015. It is likely to be linked to a wide range of factors, including challenges related to the detection of doping activities in a training centre. But I think it is important that we focus on how this can be done even better, and how cooperation between police, training centres, Antidoping Norway and the municipalities together can make better efforts, especially on the prevention front. I think it is at least as important as following developments in the criminal framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e663	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e669	We're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e705	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-09.ana.ud2085e819	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
