ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e25	The representative Nikolai Astrup, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From 4 October to 6 October to take part in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Italy, an application has been made for a permit for the representative of Jan Arild Ellingsen. That application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet under the authority of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternate shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Nordland County: Veronica Pedersen Åsheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e61	Veronica Pedersen Åsheim is present and will take the seat. The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e68	On behalf of the representatives of Jenny Klinge, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I have been delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to change the rules for absence in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e73	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e78	On behalf of the representative Per Olaf Lundteg and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the international and national work against antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e83	The representative of Ms Aasen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e88	On behalf of the representatives of Trond Giske, Rasmus Hansson and myself, I would like to make a proposal on national rules that ensure that the faces of students, students and teachers are fully visible in schools and at universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e93	The representative of Trond Giske will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e99	I am delighted to present a proposal by the representatives of Marianne Aasen, Martin Henriksen, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Christian Thinning Bjørnø and myself on a national strategy for digitisation and overview of the digital status of Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e104	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e122	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate will take place over two days starting with contributions from the parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes, followed by a row of up to six lines, 44 posts of up to 5 minutes, completed in full on the first day of the debate and distributed as follows between the parties: Working Party 14 posts, Right 12 posts, Advance Party 7 posts, Christian People's Party 3 posts, Center Party 3 posts, Left 3 posts and Socialist Left Party 2 posts. It opens up up to four lines on each post after two of the posts from the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party and after one of the speeches from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each, with a subsequent row of up to six lines. After completion of the allocated speaking time, open for articles of up to 3 minutes. Wednesday's meeting will be set at 9 a.m. 10:00 and starting with a post from the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes, followed by a row of up to 13 lines. Then comes any remaining three-minute speeches from today’s meeting as well as those from Wednesday’s debate. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e143	We live in the time of contrast. We meet for a democratic debate on road choices for Norway, a country for which we have so many ambitions. Outside, stories come from a Syria torn apart: the cruel images of the bombing of Aleppo, a city that the UN Secretary-General calls a slaughterhouse – images that will not let go of us, and that can make us powerless. But we can't give up hope, and we have to stand together at the beginning of this staging session, in this house, about a hope and a demand that this war must end. In other parts of the world, too, and for us closer to the world, we see developments that should be worrying: the upsurge of Donald Trump, a fragmented United Kingdom leaving a weakened EU, right-wing populists in the United States, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Hungary and many more countries. We meet a mind with many reasons. The most important is what the Labour Party has always been the most important issue in its policy, namely the right and quality of work. In many countries, employment falls. Others are out of work. Several people have to be careful about short contracts, temporary jobs, part-time jobs, poor quality work and poorly paid work. Uncertainty in work and insecurity in work weakens the quality of life. There is an important reason for increased inequality and therefore an explanation of the mind that is now turning into protest in so many countries. The languages of the throne mark the entrance of a new year. Once again, here in our country, most countries will happily trade with Norway. Once again, the Labour Party is pursuing a responsible opposition policy, including in the last year before a decision on a roll-out. We are ready to find good solutions in matters that are important to the country. But we also say this: the working party is a strong opposition to today's government. The voters will see a strong alternative to the Right Party government. On the way into the last year of this period, we see that the forces that create injustice and anger in other countries also work on us. In our country too, differences are increasing: between those inside and those outside the labour market between those who have whole, safe jobs and those who do not. between rich and poor between city and country between women and men It prepares us poorly for the demanding tasks that await us. The tasks are demanding. The oil will in future take less space in the Norwegian economy. But Norway is rich in natural resources. Norway is an energy nation with great potential, if we put together, powerful and correct. We're meeting new technology to an extent that we may not have ever seen. We're getting older. Greenhouse gas emissions shall decrease. Our cities are growing. We will experience tensions as a result of immigration and a multicultural population, which also gives Norway opportunities. In many of these areas, the most important thing we can do is to contribute to the creation of sufficient jobs and secure jobs. Working and investing in knowledge is the key to creating values, combating inequality, ensuring that we can pay for our common well-being, reducing emissions and contributing to integration and equality. In the field of work, the results of the Right-Fremskritspart-government are very weak. On their watch, hardly any new jobs are created – 25 000 have arrived in three years, and three out of four have arrived in the public sector. We now have the lowest employment in two decades and the highest unemployment rate in two decades. For some of the most vulnerable groups, such as men in the 30s, the Statistical Central Bureau has never measured such a low proportion of jobs as it is now. After three years with billions of ‘growth-promoting tax relief’, growth is low and unemployment is record high. The large job creator in Norway, the private sector, creates hardly enough jobs. What grows most with this government is bureaucracy. Nor does the government pursue a policy for more secure jobs: The amendment to the law providing general access to temporary employment provides – not surprisingly – more temporary staff. As recently pointed out by the National Audit Office: Lack of efforts to prevent social dumping results in — not surprisingly — more social dumping and greater inequality in the labour market. The fact that the country has a finance minister who has a programme obligation to weaken the organised working life makes it – not surprising – that organised work is weakened. With this government's policy, we've got a lower share of work and less security at work. It makes us poorly confronted with the challenges of the future and is precisely the leading economic environments around the world today are warning against. The Labour Party wants a different policy and direction for the country. According to the Central Bureau, unemployment had been lower with our option. The action packages had been larger, the changes in the permitting legislation had come earlier. We'll bet on, not just talking about, early school effort. We will be at the forefront of a knowledge-based promise in the world of work that provides people with security so that they can learn what they need through a long professional life, that they learn and learn and get updates along the way. We want to increase the use of wage subsidies, so that more people can try their way into work. We will provide increased investment aid and increased access to government loan guarantees in a situation where investment in parts of the economy is very low. We will set up ambitious value creation programmes in areas where Norway has unique advantages, such as the sea and health technologies. We will develop – not sell – the environments of competence and the natural resources we have in Norway: fish, forests, hydropower. And not least: we want to increase – not weaken – the effort to ensure safe, whole jobs for everyone. That is why we have already announced that, after the elections next year, we will strengthen and renew the Working Environment Act. It's not just in the field we see that the government is making us worse able to meet the challenges of the future. In a wide range of other areas, the pattern is the same: the right and the front are shortsighted and push the problems ahead. We know that it will be more demanding to pay for our common well-being in the future. Expenditure is growing faster than revenue. What does the government do? They increase the government budget deficit and push the bill ahead! They have increased oil money consumption more in three years than in the previous ten! They make the pension bill even more expensive! It is short-sighted policy. We know that we need to make great improvements in defense. What does the government do? They spend three years investigating a plan, and when it finally comes to Stortinget, the most difficult thing is left out: what strategy are we going to choose for the Army? It's pushing the problems in front of it. We're losing time. We know that we are going to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by 40 pst. within 13 years. Now emissions are increasing. What does the government do? They're waiting for the European Union. And now last this week, they're putting their partners on the wall to hold back the green tax shift. Yes, so the pressure is on this government that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are enjoying together from the state budget from the pulpit at the Prime Minister's office, without a single document. It's probably an example of the unyielding, messy form of government that has been characterized by this government. The census describes known, major challenges for Norway. But in addition to a vague desire for change and reform, it was strikingly little concrete about the way forward. It's really not surprising. Because it's not on the right of the Right that the centre of gravity of Norwegian politics lies. The Norwegian people are not on the right of the Right: not in economic policy not in climate policy not in agricultural policy not in equality policy not in family policy not in development policy To put it briefly: not in politics. We now see the actual results of right-wing policies: increasing inequality — in the labour market, between poor and rich, between city and country, between mothers and fathers. Norway is no longer an exception. In the Workers' Party, we want to go in a different direction. We know that major challenges are best solved together, and we know that we are stronger together. We know that working for all and little differences is the key to a society with security and opportunities for all, especially at a time when we're going to make changes and change. Three years with a government on the right for the right is three years too much. We're going to do everything we can – with open doors to all those who want to have a different policy – so that after four years, in one year, it's over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e269	I must say I liked the introduction to Jonas Gahr Støre's posts, where he described what a fantastic country Norway is to live in. But after hearing the eight next minutes of the article, I was a little in doubt if it was the same country he described. It seemed like everything was bad. After all, the debate on the throne should be the debate on the opposition. It is then natural for the opposition to have a little answer to questions related to its own policy. Biggers used a lot of their articles to list what was going to be better. This has a price. In Political Quarter today there was a debate that the Vice-Chairman of the Workers’ Party took part. The working party already cancelled there in one extra hour of gym each day. So we can let that lie. However, can Gahr Støre confirm or decline that when the Workers' Party presents its alternative budget in 2017, all of the Workers' Party's promises will be fully funded, so that the total tax bill to the taxpayers appears? It's at least 26 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e276	It is fantastic reading today about the rich uncles of the Right who have received up to 40 million. kr in tax cuts from this government. Then we hear from the Right Parliamentary Vice President that one hour extra gym this week we can't afford. Yes, my party has greater ambitions for what the community is going to do than the Right has. My party has greater ambitions for what we can help our youth with, how to secure a worthy old age and support a business that is struggling and that is about to change. The Labour Party shall submit its policy through alternative budgets and batch programmes. It is that when we formulate ambitions for Norway, we do so in many contexts in our party, and then we adopt a program at the national meeting and budget in Stortinget. Right now, on every occasion, everything they can't do because the oil price has fallen. The Workers' Party also adjusts speed according to the terrain – Norwegian economy and what it needs. We have a long tradition of that, and you'll see that in the budget we'll be presenting once we've seen the government's cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e281	This means that Jonas Gahr Støre confirms what the Right has pointed out – that the Workers' Party's tax bill is not presented in the budget, but is presented through various plays, through the party program and the overall arrangement. That means that the voters actually don't know how many billion additional Workers' Party has been going to add to the tax bill in addition to the ten, which they have already admitted. Can Jonas Gahr Støre say that there is something wrong with the calculation presented by the Right? Now he just said that the hour extra gym we can afford. It's a cost of 3 to 4 billion. I don't know. I don't know. When will the Workers' Party present the tax bill to Norwegian voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e286	This representative can confirm that the Right History Story, the Right Calculator Policy, does not agree with what the Workers' Party promotes in its concrete proposals. I can confirm that in the 2017 budget, the representative of Greece, as in the 2016 budgets, for 2015 and 2014 will see the Labour Party's approach. We have prioritised what we could implement by means of financial framework conditions and what we could deliver on if we had been in government. We adopted a budget, a programme in 2013, the outlook for the 2013–2017 programming period. We lost that choice. We haven't been in government. We haven't guided the priorities. Then we have proposals for each budget, as we've always had. Then the representative of Greece will explain why he has proposed to use the little freedom of action we have had, for a huge tax cut, which has made a few very rich, and which has added 4-5 kroner a day to ordinary taxpayers, and which has led to the fact that we have not been able to solve large welfare tasks that this country could afford – or help a business in transition, which needs support.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e291	It was very interesting to hear Mr. Gahr Støre's report by other governments, especially when you read page 420 in the book to his former director of government, Jens Stoltenberg, linked to the government and the biobracket and the way it went. But I'll let that lie. My question to Gahr Støre: We have over time heard the Workers' Party come with a number of different types of play around prohibitions or legislation related to lucky facials in Norwegian school. We have followed up with representatives like Jan Bøhler, Jette F. Christensen and Hadia Tajik saying the negative effect. Then we have also received statements from the representatives Trond Giske, Helga Pedersen and Gahr Støre themselves who have raised doubts about whether or not you want a ban, or whether it is a rule that is the new. My question to the representative Gahr Støre is: during this debate will the Labour Party support the proposals of the Progress Party, which is now being promoted in this Chamber, on a ban on the use of lucky facial garments in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e298	Firstly, I am impressed that the representative Nesvik has come all the way to side 420 in that book. I'm going to hang out a little bit. But that's good advertising for Stoltenberg's book, so he probably appreciates it! If the representative got the start of the meeting today, he realized that a proposal had been made by the Workers' Party. That proposal is about this: we ask the government to find in an appropriate way, a rule, which can ensure that in schools, at universities and colleges the whole face will appear. In our society, we are opposed to banning clothing. We're against having scenes where the police go and take their clothes off people, whether they're on the beach or in the middle of the street. But in a school and educational situation, you should be able to see your whole face. It's the situation, mostly, around the country. Now we are proposing a code that is similar across the country, and that means that we can follow up on something that I think everyone thinks is quite natural, that in a school and educational situation, the teacher can see the student and the student see the teacher – the good communication. I hope the Progress Party finds reason to be able to support that proposal, along with a broad majority in the UK.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e305	It is now two years since Jonas Gahr Støre became a party leader in the Labour Party. He started his party career with what I want to say was very promising paces, and I want to quote what Gahr Støre said: «If we are to be a party over time, we must listen to the families and understand what they are in. And then it is not certain that what we have meant in previous decades is quite right for the coming decades." Then Gahr Støre opens for a more positive view of the cash support. I thought it was a forward-looking and good pardon from Gahr Støre, but when I see the new proposal for the party program, I see that this seems more like a high-thinking. My question to the representative Gahr Støre is: When one thinks as wisely and as well as what Gahr Støre did two years ago, but does not feel to be listened to by his own party – is it not frustrating?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e316	Thanks for the rose! As my former chief Gro Harlem Brundtland, I would like to say that this quote was very good. I'm fully committed to it. And now I realize that the representative Hareide is turning to the Workers' Party and asking that question, because all of his collaborators are now going against the cash support, so it is starting to get a little hint in the rows behind that arrangement, as it has worked until now. The working party has a programme in which we believe that cash support is not the right priority for Community funds or can help achieve the objectives of helping families with children and helping vulnerable families. I have good faith that it's still going to be our attitude. But then I know what I'm saying, that we have to listen to the families. We have had a family committee in our party that has made concrete proposals. We want all children, when they reach the age of one, to be able to enter a high-quality kindergarten with good offers. Then some children have to – among other things. with this government's kindergarten policy – wait. Then there is a waiting order, which ensures that the children can get good follow-up until they come to kindergarten. That's about where we're going to be in that question. The cash support we believe is a bad system, which we believe will belong to the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e321	At a time of many centralisation reforms, I will ask a question about the police reform, which is supported by the Labour Party. From a number of states, we are now talking about turbulence in implementing the reform. Many spokesmen and local authorities feel that they are not being taken on board, they are not being heard by the police. The last time I heard Arne Johannessen, a group leader for the Luster Municipal Workers' Party, was expressing great concern at the implementation of the reform, for fewer policemen in the districts, for the police and their bus stops to be centralised, for a lack of local knowledge, etc. Since the Workers' Party supports the reform, I think it is appropriate to ask whether the Workers' Party is satisfied with the implementation of this reform – or whether the Leader of the Workers' Party shares the great turbulence with the group leader in Luster, Arne Johannessen, for how this reform is carried out, and what will be the consequences, not least in many district municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e330	Many in Norway have been used to hearing Arne Johannessen comment on police relations. Now he also speaks about it, but from a local position. The Labour Party supported this reform. We were in the final phase and influenced it, also in a direction that we believe made it better than it could have been. We believe it is important to use the resources in the police, to be able to prioritize them, so that we get efforts close to people, and then we also need to be able to look at changing the structure. This applies to the follow-up, and there we have been concerned that close contact must be maintained with those who know the local conditions, which are different around the police districts, even though they are fewer. It is different to plan police resources in built-up areas than in more scattered areas. And of course, we will keep the government responsible for the decisions that are being made, if they view local conditions in a good way, if they ensure that there is actually a shorter response time, better access to people, fewer in offices and more out in operational work. We don't see that fasitite yet, but of course we're going to follow this all the way in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e339	When Gahr Støre was the last government council, it was a negative green tax change from that government. The red-green government increased the cost of climate-friendly fuels, perverse to the principle of green tax change, namely that we want to tax more what we want it to be less of, namely pollution, and tax less what we want it to be more of, namely environmentally friendly behaviour and more work. The Progress Party has now gone from being a party that has totally denied climate change to a party that is now willing to increase fossil fuel prices. The progress party goes significantly beyond the working party in terms of the level of fossil fuel fees. In this respect, the Progress Party has taken a greater responsibility than the Workers' Party with regard to the 'polluter pays' principle. And sail if the Left believes the government has suggested too little, puts the Progress Party here Labour Party in the climate policy scandalous hook. How does the Workers' Party feel about being put in the climate policy scandal of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e346	I'm tempted to say that if we get into the climate-policy scandalous hook, we can ask Trine Skei Grande about what it's like to be there. For there I believe she has now positioned herself by putting all the eggs in the basket of the Advance Party. She spends time on Stortingen's pulpit to talk up the responsibility of the Progress Party for climate change – a party that, at least until now, has a programme that is desperate for man-made climate change. She looks for any straw straw to show that the Progress Party is the progressive force for climate. We proposed changes to fuel taxes at the latest in the revised national budget. We are going to put forward an outline in our alternative budget for the autumn, which, overall, will help bring the emissions down. Trine Skei Grande will handle a government proposal, from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, which – net – will make it more beneficial to have a car and to drive a car in Norway, and which, according to the experts, is likely to increase emissions. We'll have to wait and look at the whole picture we're presenting in our budget, and then we'll see if Trine Skei Grande is still comfortable because it's the Progress Party that's the way to reducing climate change in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e355	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e360	Three years ago, we promised the country a new course. The health queues were too long and the waiting times were too long. The lag on our roads grew, and it was built too little new. Combating poverty was too little targeted, research efforts were too low, tax pressure was too high. Society had changed, but politics remained silent. Norway needed new ideas and better solutions. The country has been given a new course. Health queues and waiting times go down, especially in the area of drugs and psychiatry. The road and rail maintenance run is reduced. Research efforts have increased significantly. Rest cut is over. We make sure that the students learn more at school. Never before have so many teachers applied for and received further training. We give several children access in kindergarten. We are renewing and improving the public sector and launching the green shift. But some challenges have grown. Before the elections, we warned how dependent the Norwegian economy had become on the oil. Unfortunately, we got quite faster than anyone had imagined. The oil price has been more than halved since the government took over, and this has led to increased unemployment, especially in the South and West. Many hardworking women and men have been made to feel the uncertainty of the labour market on the body. It is important to avoid a high level of unemployability. In order to put free hands into work, the cooperation parties have granted 5 billion. kr for a package of measures targeted at the South and the West. Schools and hospitals are being cleaned up, construction of roads and railways are being speeded up, and the yards are being given new jobs by the public authorities. This creates new jobs and creates activity and light in windows throughout Norway. While adopting exceptional measures, we need to strengthen the long-term growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Only by strengthening growth can we ensure safe well-being. Therefore, cooperative parties invest in growth-creating measures, such as: knowledge and school, research, innovation, transport and growth-promoting tax incentives. Investments in transport alone have increased by 50 pst. in only three years. It has given a lot of activity in the construction industry, while goods and people are coming out faster. In many ways, it is a kind of cheek egg, where we remedy the situation in the labour market while at the same time helping to strengthen competitiveness and support the transition through Norway. This policy is working. We have recently received more positive signals in the Norwegian economy. Last week, Nav reported a decline in registered unemployment for the fourth consecutive month. Seeing a country as a whole, the unemployment rate is reduced in 14 counties in the last year. A number of sectors that have previously lived in the shadow of the oil report better times. The journey life had a record summer, the farming industry has never gone better, and the construction industry is going down. Norway’s Bank, the SSB, the NHO and the Working Party all believe that the economy is on its way to recovery. Common to these is that they say that economic policy has helped to dampen the decline in the Norwegian economy. All of this is good, but the rise is vulnerable. If we increase the tax burden on businesses, we are at risk of a change in price and an upturn towards a decline. That is exactly why I am pleased that we have a broad tax settlement in place at Stortinget, which provides companies with lower corporate tax. This will lead to increased investment, which in turn gives new jobs. Some would also argue that the tax settlement is a concession from the Workers' Party that growth-promoting tax reliefs actually work. In this way, I find it unfortunate that the largest opposition party in the Storting, the Workers' Party, announced in its alternative budget for 2016 that they would increase the tax on Norwegian enterprises and employees by over 10 billion. kr. It will help to prolong the downturn and is opposite to the recipe of what the struggling company now needs. It's also worth asking whether the tax bill could be even bigger. As we read in the VG today, the Workers' Party has given voters a wide range of other, unfunded promises that will increase their spending every year. It's about school food, an hour of physical activity every day, two babysittings – to mention something. These are promises that go beyond the agreed efforts of the Workers' Party in their alternative state budget. Whether the lot opts to cancel these promises or to increase taxes beyond 10 billion. kr, are some of the clarifications I hope to get during this debate. It's not that much clarification that far. Let it be clear: Raised taxes of over 26 billion. kr will not contribute to the creation of new profitable jobs in the private sector. Increased taxes are those that create jobs that need at least right now. Why is this important to the Right? Well, because it's people's work that enables us to create a better well-being and a safe everyday life. It's people's work that allows the government to cut health cows and create patients' health care. It is people's work that enables us to strengthen the climate technology fund and be the country in the world that sells the highest share of low- and zero-emission cars, thus showing that the green shift is possible. It's people's work that allows us to carry out a big teacher's vow to get better teachers and get more learning into school. And it's people's work that makes us have space as a society to raise those who need it the most – it's addicted, poor children or minor refugees – as the cooperative parties have achieved in a priceless way. This is worth remembering, because without hard work from men and women all over the country, none of us in this room could have gone to the elections on better welfare for the inhabitants. Equally important as better well-being is a safe everyday life. At a time of more uncertainty in the world and a new security policy situation, I am pleased that we in the Grand Duchy can often gather on the major features of foreign policy. We stand together in the condemnation of the atrocities that unfold in Syria. I feel that the government has received broad support from the Storing in its efforts to strengthen the humanitarian effort against the brutality of the Syrian people. Similarly, when we discuss together the major issues of foreign policy, such as terrorism, organised crime and international conflicts, I feel a sense of solidarity. This fall will also discuss how the Defence will meet future security challenges in the form of increased terrorist threats, a more self-reliant and unpredictable Russia and a fragmented Europe. It is perhaps the most important debate this house has during this four-year period, because without security we have no welfare either. In order to meet the new security policy situation, the government has promoted a historic commitment to Defence. The aim is to strengthen Norwegian defence capabilities. With the long-term plan, we are facilitating the long-term and sustainable development of defence with a real balance between tasks, structure and economy. There are many opinions about how the defense can best be strengthened, and that's good. But I am sure that the outcome of Stortinget's debate in the autumn will be that Norway can continue to be among the safest countries in the world. Over the last three years, the government has shown that it provides better solutions that secure Norway. Much has improved, but we're not in the goal. Norway continues to face challenges that need to be addressed. Freedom must be combated, and values must be created. The economy and society must become greener. The public sector must continue to be reformed. Children must be given opportunities regardless of their social background. Students need to learn more. Our security must be ensured. These are major tasks – tasks that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have shown the ability to handle. I would say that it has happened more after three years with the collaboration parties than after eight years with red-green Idea. We have shown the power of implementation and the ability to keep what we promise. That is why I think the voters will say yes to four new years with better solutions that secure Norway. I look forward to the last year of this big time period. There are many exciting things for treatment, and I'm proud of the commitment I see in this room -- across party lines. The stork is today a living political workshop, and I think the weeks and months we are waiting for will show it again. That is why I wish everyone a good harvest session and an extra good debate now!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e400	I think the Storting will accept that invitation! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e407	In the class struggle today, we can see the distribution profile in the tax structure of the Right and the Progress Party. He shows that the 50 richest have received tax cuts that correspond to the whole life base of 2,000 common workers. So we already know that the tax profile of the Right and the Progress Party has not been significantly growth-promoting, that it does not make sense to create more jobs. We have asked for evidence that he should have the effect we have not received. Today, we have again been shown that their tax regime is very unsocial, that it increases the differences between people. The only thing this government has delivered is a targeted effort for the richest in the country. My question is what the representative of Greece himself thought about a distribution profile that means that the 50 richest get what corresponds to the life base of 2,000 common workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e414	I think it's amazing that those in Norway who have the opportunity to create jobs get that opportunity. Our whole objective of reducing and eliminating property taxes is to give Norwegian owners equal terms to non-resident owners – giving entrepreneurs who have worked and who have created thousands of Norwegian jobs even better terms. What we need now is really those who want to stand on and stand up and contribute to creating values in this society – instead of punishing them. I admit it's not always as popular to talk about property taxes, but we're talking about Norwegian ownership and creating values along the entire Norwegian coast, on Sunnmøre, in Trøndelag, in Hallingdal – anywhere. There we meet those who pay taxes on wealth, and who would rather have wanted to put the money into active work in their own company. That's the challenge of today's tax system. I'm glad of the tax settlement, but right here the Workers' Party is failing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e421	We can then state that the representative of Helleland believes that this is a desired distribution profile. He's proud that they have a tax arrangement that means that the ones who have the most, too, are the ones that get the most. He says that their tax regime is meant to create more values and jobs. But there is hardly any job growth in this country. What the Central Statistical Office points to would have had the effect of creating more jobs is public investment. It could have been 15 times more effective than the kind of tax cuts that the government of Greece has set up. Then the question is: why does this government give priority to a tool, a tax scheme, which is so unsocial – which does not work to create new jobs, and which does not contribute to significantly increasing job growth, when they could choose an option that could actually give it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e429	It was probably the Workers' Party itself that asked the SSB for an assessment of the functioning of tax relief and public investment. That report also pointed out that tax relief actually contributed to growth. That's interesting, but it's very rare to hear the Workers' Party talk about when they tell you about that report. What we have deliberately done is to facilitate value creation. We focus on innovation, we focus on infrastructure, we focus on using the oil money we put into the economy to create future values. One of the most important elements is to make it better and easier for Norwegian owners to create Norwegian jobs. I'm proud that we're working for that. I really hope that the Workers' Party will also be involved and cheer up those who contribute to the creation of new jobs in this country – those who do a lot of work, who contribute heavily in the communities, and who provide large tax revenues to the State through all the jobs created. Then we need to strengthen Norwegian ownership, and that's what the Right is trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e436	There was a lot of good in the speeches by the representative of Greece, not least in identifying the importance of the size of this period in order to obtain good solutions. What I guess I didn't hear about, which I might have been surprised that was not brought to the path of Greece, was our climate and environment challenges. It says in the nostalgic language: ‘The Paris Agreement provides a new framework for climate action. All countries, including Norway, have to comply with their obligations. We need to address these challenges." The good work of the majority also resulted in an agreement between the four parties. That's what it says. «The charging and tax conversion shall be of a magnitude that enhances the climate reconciliation and provides significant reductions in climate emissions.» Before we now go into the work of this session with the budget and otherwise, I want to have a confirmation that there are no absolutes on the right when it comes to how we are going to achieve this commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e457	Thank you to Hans Olav Syversen for largely sympathetic mention. The Seven know very well that when the time comes – and it is quite soon – that the budget will be negotiated in the Grand Duchy, there will be debates related to the whole of the budget, and there will be debates related to something. What matters to us is that we're now really starting off on the green shift, that we're contributing to a change in the tax system that actually makes it more expensive to pollute and cheaper to own. It's important. Then we're going to have to do all the discussions about where the boundaries go. What the government has presented now, presented to the Prime Minister and Finance Minister, in terms of the green shift as a follow-up to the previous budget, I believe is a very good starting point, and there is not much we have to give in that context. But the totality of the budget will always be open to discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e464	The government has been concerned about changes in the public sector. The mantra has been that the bigger things get, the better it gets. The discussions on public sector reform have been largely about structure rather than content, and the flagship has been the municipal reform. It is developing into the pure chaos reform. The Right Party and the Advance Party are not willing to accept the local processes and decisions taken. The more than 200 referendums that did not go in the direction desired by the Right and the Advance Party have now been rejected, and they have used the statesmen to give so-called professional advice. Then the councils of the states break in every direction. Some suggest coercion, and some suggest no coercion. Then I think it is soon time that the Right answers the question that the municipalities are concerned with, that they avoid holding the municipalities with good talk in the future, but answer the question: Will the government force the merger of the municipalities in the future, or will they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e469	First of all, I totally disagree with the premise that Marit Arnstad draws up, that the only thing we've been concerned about is structural changes in the public sector. We've had a strategy of digitisation that's very offensive, which brings great savings. We have implemented 52 measures – simplification measures – that save business for 6 billion. kr per year. We've made a number of contributions, and we also have an efficiency reform in the state that's going to be 1.6 billion. kr more every year for health, road, track and other. With regard to the municipal reform, the county councillors have made their contributions, and Marit Arnstad will get answers to its questions as the Right and Cooperation parties now go through the results that have come. Of course, when we get the shots from the statesmen here to the house, our big crowds will answer how we are now going to continue the municipal reform, which has also given us many municipal mergers, much more than it was in the eight years of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e476	Both myself and the Left agree with the description given by the representative of Greece of all the exciting things that are happening in the country, both at the intersection climate, green growth and industrial policy, in the field of knowledge and when it relates to power take-offs in the area of welfare and health, for example. the fight against child poverty – a policy that has been possible through good constructive cooperation on the part of citizens. Where we don't have the same reason to turn on large amounts of space, we've been living together with the community's means. Oil money use is far above what is viable only in the short term, and in a government budget that is now approaching 1 300 billion. kr, there is undoubtedly considerable room for funding new necessary measures through redeployment and re-priorities, not sending the bill to future generations reasonably uncritical. So the question is, is the representative of Greece agreed with the Left that this use of money cannot continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e481	After all, a good part of my contribution helped to describe the difficult situation that has arisen especially in the county where Terje Breivik is from, Hordaland, Rogaland, More and Romesdal, in the Agder counties – the increased unemployment resulting from the decline in the oil sector. It has made it necessary to spend money, and I think the government has got quite a lot of credit for it as well. As I pointed out in my article, all the big organizations have pointed out that economic policy has actually worked. Then I look forward to it, and I also believe the fiscal spokespersons in the Right and the Progress Party look forward to, the round we get where the Left puts all its cut suggestions on the table and does not want to increase public expenditure. It's not always as simple as it sounds like, when you talk in headlines, but I'm very happy that the Left signals that they want a restrained use of money. That's something I think we need to do in the future, because we can't keep increasing oil money at a high rate, we have to adapt to the economic reality we're in, and I hope now that it gets better, and that we can use a little less.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e488	Community and welfare countries are some of the things that have made Norway a good country to live in and a good country to operate in. In the government's throne speech, the welfare state comes back over and over again, but the two main factors to maintain and develop a good welfare state, namely good distribution and less differences and the fight against black work and economic crime, are easily overlooked. The welfare state is based on everyone contributing according to ability, and what we know is that social dumping, black work and various economic curvatures through tax havens and corporate structures undermine the community in Norway for hundreds of billions of dollars – yes, only black work considers tax east to be 140 billion. kr. Then it is to wonder: why does the government ignore and right this greatest threat to the community and the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e495	I can't see that we've overlooked it at all. There have been several initiatives in which both the LO and others have been involved with the government and said very clearly that the fight against black work and the fight against social dumping is something we have to stand together for, and I fully agree with that. Those who run an economy outside it – I kept saying – the tax-paying economy, have failed society in many ways. We have to have a system where people pay taxes, and one of the reasons why there is a high level of trust in the Norwegian public sector, the way corruption and government governs the country, is that we rely on everyone to contribute to the community. Having a system where someone can avoid it, we're against it -- it's that simple. We have presented many measures, and we have presented action plans. We're working on this. It's not very easy, but it's some of the things that have a high priority. So there's nothing Karin Andersen needs to worry about. Here we stand together in the fight against social dumping and black work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e502	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e507	Three years ago the Norwegian people chose to decide that the previous, red-green, government needed to finish their work, and a new government was established. The government that is now sitting promised to start work on conversion and innovation, to improve the efficiency of the public sector, to think differently and, not least, to provide new solutions. This work has been going on for three years, and it is quite obvious that this is also a work that we are seeing again, and is going to look again for many, many years to come. There is a reform of public sector efficiency which is clearly important in order to generate values and resources to continue the welfare state that we are all behind. But things also change very quickly in Norwegian policy. If we think back to just one year ago, the big discussion in this room – from then on and beyond the fall – was the great influx of migration that took place in Europe. We still see major challenges related to migration, but now – at least from the Norwegian side – the government and the majority of the population are ready to take action together with our neighbouring countries, which make it seem that we – for the time being – are in control of the influx that was part of Norway. Of course, it is because the government is capable of action. The government has shown that it is implementing the measures requested by the Stortinget. It has also taken a number of measures itself, together with other countries, precisely because there was a great need to do so. If we had not been able to control it, the scope that we are now seeing in front of us would have been completely different. Another thing that has happened in this period, of course, is that in the summer of 2014, we had an oil price of $110 per barrel, and in the summer of 2016, an oil price actually experienced in periods was less than $45 per barrel. It goes without saying that for a nation like Norway, which has been as oil dependent as it has been, there are major problems. But then it is also important to housekeepers with the budgets that you have, and to implement the measures on that basis. In particular, we see a situation along the coast – from Agder in the south to Trundellag in the north – where very many people experience being out of work. Then it is important that we come up with targeted measures to try to help these people get back into their careers. The government has. Measures have been taken for over 5 billion. South and Western kr related to migration and the creation of new jobs. It has been ensured that there is funding for infrastructure, for investment on the road and on the track. Business training has been provided, which is very important for many. A business plan has been launched. It has been possible to create broad consensus on a lower taxes on wealth on working capital. In fact, the taxes on wealth are harmful to Norwegian ownership, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's not that it's just the rich who pay taxes on wealth. Very many of the small and medium-sized enterprises I meet on my voyages along the coast, point out precisely what they have to do with the taxes on wealth, that they have to pay property taxes on equipment that they depend on, whether they have profits or not. The government has provided a number of transport-related measures. We've set up an infrastructure fund. You have made sure that you get more for money in road construction. The emphasis has been on a formidable increase in infrastructure. We now have a government that is finally beginning to re-engage in road and track, while the previous government helped just to increase it. It is very important for the Norwegian people to do enough in health. The waiting lists in the healthcare system when this government took over were formidable. In the period behind — in these three years — 56 000 people have been reduced within this field. Priority has been given, in particular, to psychiatry and drug treatment. It's had a terrible downturn in waiting times. It is important to signal to those who are at home and who have health problems and challenges, that when help is needed, help comes. In recent times we have had a discussion about lucky clothes in the public room, not least in school. In particular, there has been a focus on things like burka and nikab, which make identification difficult, and which have a perfectly obvious female repressive profile – which counteracts integration. The Progress Party believes that lucky, religiously contingent garments such as nicab and burka are garments that just contribute to the suppression of women and the maintenance of women’s discriminatory structure. People who must or will conceal their face in public are standing on the outside of society in many ways. This is particularly problematic in an educational situation. The school shall be an arena for learning and interaction, not an arena for exclusion and religious and social control. The Progress Party has made proposals to limit the use of lucky garments several times in the past and as late as in 2013. In the debates previously followed in the wake of these proposals, it has usually been argued that such prohibitions are contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. However, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights has, in a judgment, found that such a prohibition does not violate human rights. The Progress Party primarily wants a ban on the use of lucky garments in public space, but we are recording that there is no majority for such a proposal today. However, we hope now, after the signals that have been given, especially in public space, that there can be a majority in order to get at least one step further on the road. It will delight both me and the Advance Party if the Workers' Party has really turned this case around, and now wants a ban on Nicab and burka in Norwegian school. However, I will not celebrate until the votes have been spoken up in this Chamber and the decision has been taken. It is a strong measure that the state should go in and regulate people's clothing. However, the circumstances and the practical consequences of lucky religious clothing are so serious that as politicians we are responsible for acting, especially in the case of children and young people. It is then important that we facilitate the best possible integration and dissemination of equality and Western values. Whole-covered religious garments hinder play and interaction between children. They signal the distance bar of Norwegian society, stand in the way of integration and create an unfortunate gender distinction, where the signal is that girls are inferior. A ban on religious, heroic garments is a ban on freedom. In conclusion, of course, I take up the proposal that we have submitted, so that it comes to voting. But one last point before I accept lines, is economic development, where fortunately we can see great improvement. Today, a press release from the company Aibel shows that contracts have now been awarded to Norwegian companies for very many billion kroner. With regard to the former Zidane field, which is now to be expanded, it appears that up to 700 people are needed at the top in terms of design, development and maintenance. So there's obviously significant positive signals in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e538	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e545	After the representative's speech, the biggest social problem in Norway is Nikab, so I'm almost sorry to draw attention to another one, namely that 139 000 people in Norway are now unemployed. The solution to this, according to the government, is a huge tax cut. A total of more than 20 tax billions adopted will be able to speed up business. The fifty richest in Norway, we saw in the newspapers today, have got 1 billion. kr, while ordinary people in last year's budget got 50 cents a day. At the same time, they receive an increased NRK licence – not removal as the Progress Party promised. The kindergarten is getting more expensive, and the electricity charge is going up. We get more toll stations – not the removal of everyone, as the Progress Party promised. We get an airline seat fee, and we even got an investigation on the plastic bag fee. Why is it that more money to the richest gives more jobs? And how many jobs has this policy resulted in so far after three years with the Progress Party in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e552	First of all, the big money has not been used for tax relief. The big money has been spent in a number of other areas. They have been used in transport, which creates both jobs and competitiveness for the future, so that more people can get to work. When betting, among other things: at SkattenFUNN, enable the companies themselves to start the necessary conversion. When using BIA funds, an innovation arena is created in enterprises, so that more jobs can be created. When you use funds to strengthen the police, it creates security in everyday life for most people. And this government is making sure that more than a thousand new police posts are deployed in the districts. The big money is going to further develop society, but we actually think it's important to do something about the tax burden in society, just to create more jobs. It is also the case that the Progress Party and the government actually believe that taxing Norwegian ownership separately is wrong. We have to make sure to have a sustainable system over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e559	For eight years with a red-green government, 355,000 more jobs were created in Norway — two thirds in the private sector. So far, we have barely had employment growth, and the few we have received have been in the public sector. The question is: how many years of such fiscal policy for the richest and more expensive taxes and affluences of ordinary people are to take place before this policy works? I would also like to ask another question to Nesvik, because he is sitting in the Programme Committee of the Progress Party, where a massive privatisation of state ownership is now proposed. Industries which compete with the private sector and are owned by the public sector shall be sold. Telenor, Hydro, Statkraft and Statoil are examples of such state enterprises that, of course, compete with private companies. The thing is, we're now investing 8 000 billion. kr in non-resident companies, so if we sell in Hydro, we have to buy up in other companies out there. If we sell Statoil, we have to buy ourselves into BP. If we sell Telenor, we have to buy ourselves into Vodafone. Why does the Progress Party believe that the billions of the state should be invested in foreign companies, but not contribute to industrial development and public ownership in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e566	That's quite interesting, because the representative Giske, who was in the red-green government, has just contributed to the big purchases in foreign companies. That's what the State pension fund actually does. By virtue of their ownership, they are purchased into non-resident enterprises. What's meant here is to make sure that we housekeepers with which company it's important that the state sits and hangs. The Progress Party believes – and it is perfectly open – that a carrier such as Bring, who competes with goods in competition with private parties, does not have to be owned by the State through the Post. We mean quite openly that it's about other things. It's not about selling either Statkraft or Statoil. It is also a matter of obtaining other owners, who can just help develop the company, create more companies, etc. This is a program process in which all parties are currently involved. I have also read with great pleasure part of the discussions of the Workers' Party. Unfortunately, they have not been able to get it to final voting, but we are looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e573	The representative Nesvik is quite right that there has been a lot of good in health, but getting a serious illness is difficult. Getting a serious illness and hearing that there is no treatment anymore are even more difficult. A lot of these patients want dignity and content in the final phase of life. The principle programme of the Progress Party states that the Party wishes active death aid to be introduced in Norway. In my opinion, it is to acknowledge that there is some life that is not worth living, and a graduation of human dignity. To what extent and in what way does the Progress Party wish to work for the implementation of this principle in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e580	The promotion party wants to work to ensure that all those in need of help, who need health care, hospital treatment and other treatment, will receive it in Norway. That is why every year, together with the Right, the Progress Party is proposing an increase in the budget – precisely for people who are sick and need help. We do so in cooperation with the Christian People's Party. That's what's our mantra: those who need health care are going to get health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e585	The people have spoken. In the local environment according to local environment, in municipalities by municipality, there have been discussions, there have been referendums, and the people have concluded that they want services close to where they live. They have said no to a massive merger of Norwegian municipalities. Now the officials are going out, and we see with interest that the North Trøndelag official is against the use of coercion, while the South Trøndelag official is for the use of coercion. The official of Hedmark is against the use of coercion. The official in Akershus is too coercive. The official of More and Romesdal, who is the representative of Nesvik's home state, is too forceful to use – the official wants to ignore the fact that thousands of people have said no to the coercion of municipalities. What does the Progress Party think? Will they listen to people most, or will they listen to the official? And will the representative be able to give a clear answer that now you will have peace, you will have security, and you will not be forced across the people's will around Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e592	The most important thing now is to be aware – in terms of what has been delivered – that first the municipalities have come up with their ideas on how they want things, through the so-called neighbouring talk and the submission of their input. What the statesmen have done is another pillar: they've come up with an adjustment. It's not the statesmen who decide, it's this hall that last and seventh do. Then we'll have to take it further from there. There have been a lot of interesting recordings, and then I feel that the Storting must do its part of this job and go into what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e599	In May of this year, the pilot scheme started with State funding of the care of the elderly, which is the Performance Reform of the Advance Party for the Elderly. 1 billion. NOK and 20 municipalities were the ambition. It ended with 18 applications and finally only seven municipalities that joined. Obviously, government dictatorship and instructional law did not tempt so many municipalities. The party's actual senior general, Carl I. Hagen, calls the experiment "hopeless" in the newspaper. He points out that free user choice is not part of the reform. Greater and stronger state and less freedom for the individual user and the citizen are not what I read out of the Advance Party program. But my question to the representative Nesvik is: What are the municipalities going to do when the government is also going to do with care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e606	Firstly, the financial part was the responsibility of the state. It is not that the municipalities should not operate with services, but the financial burden of it should be a state responsibility, the Progress Party believes – precisely so that it is not the residence address that should determine whether or not to receive help. Unfortunately, this is how we see it in many municipalities today: you can get good services in a municipality, but in another municipality that has less advice, you don't get the same kind of services. The Progress Party clearly believes that it is the state, the need for help, which must be decisive for what kind of help you get – not what is the municipal border.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e614	On 21 September, former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Robert Eriksson held a press conference in which he launched his book ‘Just do it’. There Eriksson lamented that the government made changes to the disability scheme while giving tax relief to the rich. He said, ‘I admit to myself that there was a tactical and political indiscretion, which I would have liked to have settled.’ And on the other hand, ‘I’m sorry about all the disabled people of the country.’ Is Nesvik in agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e629	You can take note of what Robert Eriksson writes in his own personal book. When it comes to government policy, it's right from the time we go into it. That government, among other things, It was proposed – and this is the basis for a settlement – that was a series of measures to address some of the problems posed by the reform. Then Robert Eriksson will have to take care of his things in his book.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e634	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e639	We live in a world of enormous inequality. An increasing plurality benefits from prosperity and prosperity, while a large minority of hundreds of millions of fellow human beings suffer from violence, war, insecurity and poverty. Europe and the United States are the victims of horrific terrorist attacks, but the extent here is only a fraction of the suffering that affects people in conflict areas such as Syria, Iraq and Yemen. The Kashmir conflict between India and Pakistan has flared up again with the threat of a new war between two countries that have nuclear weapons. Conflict resolution and nuclear disarmament are imperative. Poverty, climate change and conflict make millions internally displaced, refugees or migrant workers. Even if the crises are very serious, we must not become the victims. On the contrary, this shows more clearly than ever the importance of Norwegian efforts for peace and reconciliation, mandatory climate action and an active development policy for poverty reduction and international justice. This is also the main message of the alternative development message recently presented by the Christian People's Party. The very contrast between the wealth of individuals and the poverty of others becomes an increasing source of unrest. The fight against inequality is therefore becoming increasingly important in a world where new media technologies make poverty gaps more visible to all. U.S. agent Robert Putnam has said that the most important thing we can do to reduce inequality in a society is invest in families. Putnam says that children who experience that parents enjoy a meal with them, or often read a good - night adventure for them, do much better at school than children from families who have enough time to do. It tells me that a policy that gives time and space for parents to have time with their children is a great good one. If we get a working life that is based only on the premise of working life, so that it goes beyond the family, we all lose. It's not just a Christian People's Party in Norway that says this. The world's most powerful man, President Barack Obama, said the same thing last year's State of the Union. He said we have to stop treating the provision of care to the children as a side theme, or a woman theme, but treat it as the national economic priority as it is to all of us. We know that outreach is an increasing problem in Norwegian society. 290,000 children have parents who suffer from mental illness or an alcohol use that makes them tired in their everyday lives. One of the three elephants that begins in secondary school in Norway has not completed their education within five years. 37,000 elephants receive special education. 84 000 children grow up in families with a continuing low income. We know this. I think a lot of people would have dropped out if we had invested more heavily in just family. In spite of this, and in spite of this reality, we now see that more and more of the parties here on the Stortinget are in charge of fewer and worse arrangements for family members. I can't name everyone, but I want to give you three examples: The left-hand side of the game has a long battle against cash support and the family's freedom of choice. Two years ago, the Left Party said that they too would scrape cash support. In the fall, the Right Party and the Progress Party have also called for the phase out of one of the most important family policies of our time. In reality, the centre party of the Christian People's Party remains as the sole guarantor and champion of cash support and thus the family's freedom of choice on the Stortinget. There's a position and a special position that we'd like to be in front of. Several parties also call for the removal or weakening of child rights. Here, a well-functioning and universal family policy system is to be attacked by politicians who should have had as their prime responsibility to take care of just families. I have no faith in testing child-rescue. An important principle for our welfare society has been that such welfare arrangements have been for everyone. All should have the same dishes, the same possibilities and the same access to good. That is why the Christian People's Party will continue to fight for universal family politics. Just the struggle for equal opportunities is one of the most important struggles we can take for a modern Norwegian family policy. Today, we see that many families do not have equal opportunities. There is a deep injustice in Norwegian society by the fact that it is economically unfavorable to have children early in life. Today, as a society, we are raising childbirth in the 30's and 40's rather than in the 20's. Professor Anne Eskild says this: ‘The day-to-day parental penitentiary system is on a collision course with biology.’ There is no justice to the fact that these schemes tend to make it harder for young women and students to have children. There is no justice in the fact that a woman associated with the labour market will receive up to ten times as much support as a woman before without having been in work. It is a political responsibility to wipe out this injustice. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has been given a pass to increase the single-entry benefit something through the state budget over the last few years, but we're far from in terms of goals. In 2013, the Christian People's Party went to work for what's good for the children, because we know that a society that's good for the children is good for us all. Since then, we have been working strategically and targeted to put the children's situation on the agenda. Before the fourth year of the Storting in this period, we see that we have achieved a great deal on behalf of the vulnerable children. Let me briefly mention something of the most important: We have been supported by a stepping-up plan for children and the mental health of young people. We have received ear-marked funds for the school health services and health centres. We have put in place a holistic escalation plan for violence against children. We have put in place a strengthening of the State Children's House. We have received additional cash support. We have put in place both better and more babysitting places. We've put Barna's transport plan in place. We have put in place a permanent solution for the asylum-seekers. And not least we've got 1,700 more teachers in the first, second, third and fourth classes. This shows that the Christian People's Party is precisely the most important thing – our children and our family. Finally, I would like to highlight the recent debate on religion, the outlook on life, and threaten its place in our society. SV calls for something reminiscent of French secularism, where religious views of life are to be concealed for the sake of non-religious views of life. I think Norway is a diverse and multicultural society, and I want to be more beautiful than ever. But then it's more important than ever that we take care of our roots and not hide them away. It's more important than ever that we learn about each other's way of life at school and in teacher's education, that we talk about what the threat means to us human beings, including the public, that we give room for religious services, hospital priests and a gathering church. We have to acknowledge that religion and vision of life have a natural place in public space. I encourage a more life-seeming political debate where we do not regard religion, outlook and belief as something threatening or dangerous. We have to look at the positive social force that threatens players in our society, at the collective factor that it has for us in times of crisis and sorrow. Everyone has a vision of life. Nobody's neutral. This also applies to SV. But SV's sense of trust that the threat should be hidden away, I strongly disagree with Norway is and should continue to be a life-visioned society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e699	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e704	The Christian People's Party is committed to reducing the differences in our society. But today we have a government that consistently increases them – not only between poor and rich, between city and country, but also between women and men, by putting equality in reverse, by cutting and weakening the gender equality policy that has been proven to have worked and made Norway not only one of the richest countries in the world, but also one of the world's most equalised countries. Here, too, this government is on a collision course with what people want, and also with an overall opposition in the Storting. In the discussion of the gender equality message and the family message in ours, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party and the opposition stood together on many dozens of proposals that would take equality further in Norway. Fortunately, many of them were also adopted. What does the representative Hareide think that the government is increasing the differences between women and men, weakens the gender equality policy that has worked, and consistently reduces all attempts to take equality further? They therefore treat family policy and gender equality policy as a side theme, as the representative Hareide said, and give more priority to those who have the most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e713	Now the representative of Trettebergstien has excused me that I do not know all the details about the treatment of the equality message, because then I was in the paper commission! Just to say that women and men have equal value and have equal opportunities is the basis of Christian People's Party's policies. I registered with satisfaction – just enough via the media – some of the reviews that were also included in that message. I mean, in Norway, we've come a long way when it's about equality, but at the same time, there's a lot left. If I'm going to point to the areas that I think there are challenges attached, it's not least in the labour market that there's pay attached to it. I also believe that combining work and family is a challenge for both men and women – who have to work on it – while issues such as occupational discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment are also particularly challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e720	Despite the fact that the representative Hareide was in paperwork, I think he summed up the gender equality challenges we are facing, and that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party stood together and pointed out in the gender equality message, in an excellent way. Despite the fact that this government is taken into account when it comes to family and gender equality policies, it also promises for the future that an overall opposition formed a new majority for a more offensive gender equality policy in all the areas of society that the representative here mentions. Many of the proposals were also adopted. Another matter The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party agree, is the need for the Dad quota to be increased, because it's good for families, and that's good for equality. In 2013, the current Minister of Culture and the current Secretary of State at the Prime Minister’s office, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Julie Brodtkörp, said that the red-green father ratio punishes children. We also see that the government parties are repeatedly attacking the Dad's quota, now by considering a scheme where Dad can transfer the entire quota to Mother without any restrictions. Will the Christian People's Party join forces with the Workers' Party against these attacks on the Dad quota, and will they join in and increase it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e729	That solution, one with ten weeks' paperwork, was, in effect, the proposal of the Christian People's Party. So here the Progress Party and the Right chose to listen to just the Christian People's Party program proposals in that solution. So we've had some experiences. I think we should expand our dad's quota over and above the ten weeks one has today and because we see that unfortunately there was a decline in withdrawals when we went from 14 weeks to 10 weeks. That experience takes us with us, and we're going to deal with this at our national meeting. That's where I think we're going to increase the dad's quota to 14 weeks, as he used to be. I also want to point out that the Christian People's Party, for example in cooperation with the Right, made some very important equality policy choices precisely by ensuring a minimum of 40 pst. women of rule. It has turned out to be a very important matter, and it was Ansgar Gabrielsen and the Christian People's Party that in its time got it in place just during the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e738	We have a government that has launched a series of reforms that act as a centraliser of public activities and services to the citizens, but which are made up with names that suggest that they should have counter-effects. The community reform is called the local democracy reform and the police reform is called the near-police reform. The Christian People's Party withdrew from the negotiations on the police reform when initiatives were taken against the Christian People's Party and the Left in 2014, but voted in favour of it when it came to the Chamber in 2015. Now we see how the police reform takes shape. The majority decided to remove 15 out of 27 police districts. At the same time, the Directorate of Police authorised the number of posts to be determined. From today's 354 LEN's offices, we're moving fast towards a halve. Local elected representatives shall be ensured participation in the local processes, it is called in the Christian People's Party Agreement. It shall be elaborated by stressing the influence of municipalities on the change processes around the new service structure. We now see daily media redrafts where frustrated rapporteurs believe their arguments are being ignored. Does the Christian People's Party believe that the process that is now taking place meets the premise that local elected representatives are to be guaranteed participation and influence in the definition of a new member structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e751	It is quite right, as the representative Greni says, that in order for the Christian People's Party to participate in the police reform, it was important for us to get a better local anchoring. That's what we now see, there's a discussion and a conversation around this. And the reason why the Christian People's Party did not join the first round was that we wanted a clearer anchoring towards the local level. It was made clear when the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party joined the reform, and we are not least convinced that this was a near-police reform, that it was a local anchoring. We're glad it's being followed up. Then it's clear that reforms can be somewhat negative, but just reform can also cause more activity in the districts, that not everything is directed from Oslo. An example of this is the regional reform that the red-greens tried to do, but never got, but that now Jan Tore Sanner is doing well, which can just get us to move more jobs into the districts and not least that tasks aren't being moved to Oslo, but out all over Norway. My Christian People's Party is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e765	2016 is the first year that we're taking out more money from the oil fund than what we're looking at. It was a break point that one thought would come in a few years, this year it came. It is a development that the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) in the last rounds of the budget seems to have been somewhat alarmed, an impression that is also confirmed in an interview with Hans Olav Syversen in the past in the fall of today's industry, where the fiscal spokesman sees little reason to limit the use of oil money in the budget next year. It is alarming, both because it has consequences for future pensions, and also because the oil price now seems to remain at a low level, and the same is true of the return on government pension funds abroad. The Christian People's Party has traditionally had strong ties to the restraint movement. Will the Christian People’s Party also contribute to a more sobering use of oil money in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e774	I think it is very important to conduct a responsible economic policy. So I think we should be aware of what a responsible economic policy is exactly with the times Norway now has, because the transition that has come in the oil sector has come much faster and faster than most would have thought. I'm thinking about the 2013 election campaign, which is three years back in time, when we're talking about the big activity that was just in the petroleum sector up against mainland Norway. Now we have had changes in the oil price that have caused this to change significantly. I think we need a fiscal policy in line with the times we have. We've seen an increasing unemployment. Fortunately, the last numbers that have come have been better and perhaps better than what we had believed a year ago. But I think that the monetary and financial policies that we have set up here, in cooperation with the Left, the Progress Party and the Right, are good when we look at the developments in unemployment. I think I've had a pretty good time. But of course we have to have a bear force perspective in what we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e781	There's no doubt that the social heart is beating strongly in the Christian People's Party, it's almost so you can hear it beating in the stillness of the sentences. Therefore I hope that the Christian People's Party seeks friendship that can give the heart a better rhythm. SV share concerns about increased differences and poverty, and we also share the vision of a better society that is good for children. Based on the strong contributions of the Christian People's Party leader, I find it strange that the Christian People's Party could be part of the large cuts in the children's supplement to the poor. It's cut that's proven to have given several thousand poor kids, and the poorest know cut the most. Then I wonder, how does a policy that makes poor families poorer with a rhetoric about investing in the family? And will the Christian People's Party take the initiative to increase freedom of choice a little for the poorest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e790	Yes, as the representative Bergstø says, that's exactly why it was important for us to prevent the large cuts that were in the children's supplement in the 2015 budget. We did it a lot, but we're a 5,6 pst. And that means we don't dictate everything. But I thought I got a big breakthrough. I would just point to the need for cash support, because yes, we can discuss arguments for and against cash support, but one of what we know is that she also meets some of the poorest families in Norway. I'm taking a debate on the integration challenge with cash support, but removing it without giving anything in addition to the poorest families will at least mean that the differences between those who have little, and those who have a lot, are increasing relatively.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e799	Now there is a difference between being lazy and not being able to participate in the labour market and being punished financially for their health situation. That's what happens when you cut the baby supplements for the disabled. Even though the most severe cut was perhaps averted, there are several thousand kids who can't afford leisure activities, and who have gotten less to walk with in their daily lives, which has led families into a more difficult situation, and it's the families that have the most difficulty. Then I think it is important to take the initiative to correct the cuts that people today are living with and suffering from. My question is whether the Christian People's Party wants to take the initiative to correct the cuts that were actually introduced and that have made several thousand kids poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e806	I'm not going to fully defend what happened, but I think that the very change that the Christian People's Party had, as the representative Bergstø also said, was in the process of averting most of this cut. We had a different primary policy, but we got a consensus that we think was much better than what was the starting point. The paradox of what Bergstø says is that if SV implements its policy of cutting out cash support, it will hit the poorest children in this country. We know that the cash support has just the social effect that it goes to those who have the least. So it's a little paradox that SV -- right, I can understand that -- takes up the situation around the child supplement at the same time as they want to cut out the cash support, as we know, the social profile is that it goes relatively mostly to those who have the least. It'll be a paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e813	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e818	Norway is a good country to live in. It is a society characterised by participation, great trust and, for the time being, small differences. The well-known economist Ha-Joon Chang has recently been visiting Scandinavia, and he says that we have no idea how good we are and how unique the Scandinavian welfare model is. He believes that we have found the right balance between a dynamic and a fair economy, which also provides for a good distribution of social resources. It has not come off itself. It is the result of many important political choices. The languages of the throne strongly underline the need for change, but the change does not occur in any vacuum. Change is about political direction and political choices. The centre party believes that we have a great responsibility in the years to come so that there is no greater inequality between people, because all parts of the country are seen as equally valuable, and to maintain the trust in our society that not least good and active community contributes to. A prerequisite for this is that the inhabitants feel a belonging to a community, that something binds us together as a society. The central party believes that the nation state is the best framework for such a community – or in another way, as Rainer Hank of Frankfurter Allgemeine said in the class struggle last year: ‘The national State is the strongest in the weak.’ The national state is the strongest of the weakest — it sums up what the nation state can be: the security of the individual, a good framework to develop the government of the people, a counterweight to concentration of power, government rule, inequality and economic neoliberalism. Earlier this summer, a majority in the United Kingdom agreed to leave the EU. Brexit was a clear no to the increasing centralisation of power within the EU. Brexit was also responsible for a more insecure and lower real wages working life. It was in many ways a no to major inequality, and there is a warning that there is reason to be serious, even in other countries. For Norway, Brexit should mean opening up closer cooperation with the United Kingdom. Brexit should be able to contribute to a significantly better and more democratic agreement between Norway and the United Kingdom with the EU than the current EEA Agreement is. Norwegian EU-siders have also complained for years about the EEA Agreement, and they should also have an interest in working for it. Unfortunately, there is little evidence to suggest that the government will involve the Stortinget or the Norwegian people in a debate on the possibilities and space of action that Brexit can give us. The clearest track after three years of the Right and Advance Party in government is a strong centralisation and a red tape. The government's reformers are about larger units in response to almost all challenges. The answer is always: we have to have larger units, we have to centralize. The municipal reform is the very example of the crown. Here, large units have become the overall mantra. But when the municipalities have now had extensive processes, put down a lot of work, and there have been more than 200 referendums, it is not good enough for the government either, because the answer was not as the Right and the Advance Party wanted it. In the vast majority of municipalities, people voted against municipal mergers. The center party says that's enough now. There have been extensive local processes, the municipalities have said their own. We must have respect both for those who said yes, and for those who said no. Now we need to put a line on this chaos reform. There were never any tasks, as the government promised, and the attempt at economic coercion on the part of the government that one tried to do, didn't work either. Millions of dollars have been spent on consultants, seminars, meetings and processes, not to mention how much time local politicians have agreed to interpret conflicting signals from the government – time that should have been used to concentrate on developing better services for the population. But the government does not respond when the answer was not as the Right and the Advance Party wanted. In the last few weeks, the government has used the statesmen as a torpedo to draw new municipal maps. Neither is it going to work. After all, the so-called professional councils of the people are bursting in every direction — from someone who will not recommend coercion at all, to more people who absolutely will. In Nord-Trøndelag and Hedmark, the county officials say that there is no professional basis for coercion. In Akershus and Buskerud they say that it must definitely be forced. What professional advice the government is going to get out of it, it's going to be interesting to see. The centre party believes that now the municipalities have to get a rest of work. They must be given the opportunity to pay all attention to ensuring good local well-being for their citizens. We're going to be a guarantee that this fatigue strategy that the government has set up will be stopped. Municipalities shall not be forced, and this project shall not be dragged into the next major period and shall lie as a lid over any reasonable debate on local welfare. In the debate on the organisation of police, it is also clear how weak the Right and the Progressive Party are in so-called reform work. In fact, the whole reform is 'outsourced' to the Police Directorate. As a result, from the responsible political team, one denies all the possibilities for decision on structure and is immune to the complaint storm that is now coming from the municipalities, about the impossibility of participating in the process being carried out. At the same time, a so-called police contact without power and authority, and at the same time, at the same time, the Bureau of the Police Directorate, are rushing out. The municipalities feel bound by pigs in a process that seems to have been clarified at the police chief’s table long before the so-called dialogue with the municipalities started. A place between 120 and 140 cannon offices across the country is in danger of disappearing, and back we're going to have a top-heavy police bureaucracy and a car-based here and there police. The whole process around this has been motivating. The centre party has fought against centralisation in these areas, and we are going to continue the fight against centralisation. We know that resources, ideas and intelligence are equally distributed throughout the country. We've said it every year, and we're saying it again: the Central Party will use its voice in the Storting to argue for a renewal of the public sector where better content and proximity to users are more important than size. Obviously, there are going to be changes. We live in a continuous transition. But the changes have to be based on the best of what we carry with us, and it's proximity, it's participation, it's trust, and it's real opportunity to influence. In Norway, decentralised administration has contributed to political, social and geographical deforestation. It has given a short route from the individual to the decision-makers. It once again contributes to the participation and responsibility of many people for their lives and communities. There are important qualities of Norwegian society that need to be taken care of and further developed, and precisely these aspects of our society should not be put to the fore by an unrelenting zeal for structural reforms. The central party believes in the authority of man. We believe in the individual's ability to influence his or her life, and then good local communities and decentralization are the answer. There's less than a year left for big shots. It'll be an important choice. With all the structural changes currently in progress, there will also be a choice of direction, a choice between centralisation or proximity, a choice between top-heavy bureaucracy or local government, a choice between a society of small differences, where people can expect good services to approach, or the opposite. There will be a choice between threatening the free market or threatening the power of the mixed economy and good public services. It was interesting to read the concept of languages and what was said about change. Change is important, but as I said at the outset, change does not happen without a political context. People deserve politicians who clearly dare to say what political choices they make, without camouflaging it behind change as a honorary word. There's politics behind the word change, and people understand that. Today’s government contributes to a change that takes Norway in the wrong political direction. This will also result in next year's elections on nothing less than what Norway will have in the years to come. It will be a very important choice for the various political parties, but also for Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e855	Under this government, the differences between those who are at work and those who are out of work are increasing. Unemployment is record high and employment rates are record low. As the representative Arnstad knows, more than 355,000 new jobs were created under the red-green government, while under the Right-Fremskritsparte-government hardly new jobs are created – less than 25 000. Does the representative Arnstad think that the government is doing enough to equip Norway well enough to meet the future when we know that work is the basis for so much in the Norwegian model?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e863	I probably share the representative Tung's description of the government's lack of desire to tackle unemployment, the increasing unemployment that you have seen in Norway. I therefore share the concern about both the availability of work and the lack of willingness to develop. The representative and I come from a part of the country where many natural industries are very important. It is forestry, food production and industries based on renewable energy, and the willingness to invest in those industries is one of the conditions that are important for increasing employment. In addition, one could do more to reduce unemployment. I then think that the measures will be too late, among other things. the law of permacy, and at that point we fully share the concerns of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e870	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Arnstad, for a good answer. We also see that the differences between cities and countries are increasing. In particular, this is reflected in the high priority given by the government to socio-economic benefits, for example: in many transport projects. This means that the road projects of the future under the Right–Fremskrit party government will largely concentrate around the major cities, perhaps especially in the East. In my opinion, this does not help to connect either city and country or north and south, and I think it's wise that we think bigger than the mathematical model in the Excel sheet allows. Does the representative Arnstad therefore agree that this government not only increases the differences between those in work and those who are out of work, but also actively increases the differences between city and country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e879	Yes, this representative and the Central Party definitely agree that the differences between cities and countries are increasing, and that it means, first and foremost, that one does not take advantage of all the opportunities available in Norwegian districts. I agree that looking at socio-economic models of transport policy – which in all other areas – often gives a very narrow picture. It makes you miss out on some of the possibilities that you could have. In the field of transport policy, the aim is to bind parts of the country together, but also to bind cities and communities together. That objective must remain there, in addition to the purely socio-economic one. In addition, I would like to point out that we have had a strategy in terms of districts and cities, which have been involved in job relocation. There's a common issue between Mr. Tung and I. We helped move out Investinor in 2008, including: The problem is that the government that is now sitting is helping to move the bosses back to Oslo, and it's pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e886	‘The national State is the strongest of the weak’. It is a good statement. As a young rapporteur, I had the pleasure of participating in the quality community project of the Red-Greens, under a Municipal Minister of the Centre Party. It quickly turned out that a model had been chosen where the centre party had sold itself to the trade union, so that the trade union had a right to veto when we were in the negotiations. It turned out that it was not exactly a model that was suitable for moving my municipality further. It's suitable for preservation. When I read yesterday in Trønder-Avisa that the representative Arnstad was quoted as saying that the municipalities don't have to lay down on several reform rounds, they can sit still, because when they come into government, the reforms are to be blown off, there was a question in my head, and it was: Who is the Central Party going to sell the local politicians' right to rule this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e893	I think that was a little bit of a "peculiar" question. But if we get to grips with what I said to Trønder-Avisa, that I think the municipalities should now lower their shoulders, it is because I believe that the government in several rounds has plagued the municipalities with unclear signals, with tasks that never came, but as they promised, with financial coercion, that made the municipalities insecure – just to make the municipalities absolutely do what the Right and Advance Party wants, just to have all the focus on structure. My point in Trønder-Avisa was that I thought the municipalities should lower their shoulders, because this chaos reform cannot continue in this way. And forcing the municipalities into new rounds, where they're going to spend millions of dollars on consultants who make good money on this, and on investigations and processes that deal with structure rather than the content of the work they're going to do in the municipality, me and the Center Party seem pointless. Therefore, we believe that the municipalities should relax a little in terms of the structural debate that is currently taking place, especially when representatives from the Right in the change of words earlier today would not respond to whether this should be done voluntarily or by coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e900	Given the previous answer, it's interesting that we don't give a damn that there are too few tasks, while at the same time we're shutting down by the Central Party's state politicians so we can move tasks from the county to the municipality. But that was not what I was going to ask questions about. After hearing the contribution of the representative, Arnstad, centralisation seems to be something new that has emerged over the last three years – a set of tracks. Track after eight years of red-green government is that there's been a kid's bullet every eight days, so centralization is absolutely nothing new. The reason we have a municipal reform is that there have been major changes in Norway since the 1960s. We need a professional environment instead of a professional who ensures the citizens of all Norway good services, and we need more power for local democracy for the benefit of statesmen, county councils and the state. Then we need stronger municipalities. It's just to decentralize power in Norway. My question to the Center Party is: why does the Center Party have a refusal to reform to achieve decentralised power? And why does the Center Party believe what the King said yesterday, that everything won't be the same if we don't do anything? That's simply not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e909	Let me first, to the tasks, say: The government put the municipalities in expectation that there would be a large transfer of tasks from the state to the municipalities. It was almost nothing. It was the right to marry and something about the quality of drinking water. The only important task was the one that was transferred from the counties to the municipalities – not from the state, but from the counties to the municipalities – i.e. dental health. The centre party believes that this task could as well be with the county municipalities, and not with the municipalities. Then I have just tried to say that I think there have been extensive local processes. You've spent a lot of time and effort. The local politicians have gone into this process with great seriousness, and when a large majority of those who have had a referendum say no in the decision, I believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party should respect it, sail if it might not be quite as they wanted it. The centre party respects those who have agreed to merge, and we respect those who have said no. The problem here is that the Right Party and the Advance Party still want to re-fight over a question that the municipalities have actually resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e916	One of the things that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party are a few about is that it has been a success to move government jobs out of Oslo. There's been less pressure in Oslo, and so on. has the supervision that the Bondevik II government has moved out, has been very highly professional. Another supervision – the Lottery Authority, which is in Förde, and which I visited recently – seemed more robust and more qualitatively good than ever. The Bondevik II government moves 900 workspaces. The party leader Liv Signe Navarsete said the centre party wanted to move out 6,000 state jobs in four years. When one did a countdown, not after four years, but after five years, it turned out that the Stoltenberg II government had only moved out 85, and we see that the Solberg government today has a higher number of outsourced jobs – with twice the speed – than the Stoltenberg II government had. So my question is, how is it going to match the ambitions of the Center Party and the results they get in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e925	First of all, I would like to say that all the honours of the Bondevik II administration, which was able to move out jobs in 2003. It was an important job, and as a government council, Victor Norman made a good effort to get it done. Then I think we should all know that this is not easy. It is much easier to move jobs from Tøndelag to Oslo than from Oslo to Tøndelag. I think we should know that. I also believe that the most important problem we are facing now, the most acute – and I think we are going to have many joint discussions about moving out state jobs – is the fact that this government allows the bosses to live elsewhere than where they have a place of work. That means the head of Investinor in Trondheim will be allowed to live and work in Oslo, far away from those for whom he is the head. The head of Health South-East, who has a place of work at Hamar, will be allowed to live and work in Oslo, far away from the organisation he runs. And what's going to be the case with the new director of the Labour Inspectorate, I'm very excited, because the government hasn't even inserted the “workplace Trondheim” into the advertisement they have posted. So if he's going to be in Trondheim, I'm not sure, but it's an important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e932	The centre has been a striking silence in the discussions on opening up oil-related activity in the Lofoten, the West Pole, Senja and the Moorfields. To the extent that something has been said in the past, I experience cracks in the center party. The view of the left should be known as crystal clear, that the renewable resources take precedence over oil activity in those areas. For the sake of order, we also assume that the need for investigations, which many cover themselves up behind, is just a cover for opening. The question is, what does the Central Party actually mean? What is the view of the Centre on the opening up of these areas, where fossil-renewable marine resources have to be selected in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e939	It's a pleasure for me to be able to reassure Mr. Farstad's representative that the Central Party has a program formulation that says we're not going to open up oil drilling in the Lofoten and the Vesterålen and the Møre blocks. We do not see the need for an investigation either. In the programme proposal which is now being discussed in the party organisation, we have a similar wording, that we do not want to open up oil drilling in the Lofoten and the Vesterålen and the Møre blocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e945	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e950	I shall admit that there is no great social liberal wind blowing over the Western world. We see politicians who are increasingly using fear-terrorism in their campaign. We see it in the American election campaign, we saw it during the brexit debate, and we saw it only a few days ago in the referendum in Hungary. There's a lot of fear of change, and a lot of it also characterizes the Norwegian debate. But that just means that we, who are social liberals, have to fight even harder for the values we stand for. Policies also need to distinguish between those who play in fear and those who have solutions. The census referred to many of the major changes and challenges we face. The challenges are great, and we must meet them with change and willingness to cooperate. The refugee situation that Europe is still facing needs to be met with more cooperation between countries, not less. The survival of the welfare state is about our ability to constantly change, develop, reform and renew. If we are to be able to build strong and large communities in the future, we must constantly be willing to reform our communities. This year, 200 years have passed since the father of the National Government, Johan Sverdrup, was born. He took over the board in a lukewarm country, as Norway was at the time. What was the first major reform started by the left-wing politician? Well, it was to have a big school reform where everyone was to get equal education, and where you put your money on education and basic skills. It's still one of the most important tools for Norway to create both the innovation we need, the innovation we need, and the reforms we need for our whole community. Schools are the most important factor in developing. Taking care of the values that are in formation and that are giving young people basic knowledge and a good start in life are the best prerequisites for good social development. If we're going to get it, we need smart, good teachers, who give kids both basic knowledge and the basics that enable them to develop their creativity, so that we can build on education in Norwegian school. We also need to apply new technology so quickly that we can create the business we're going to live on in the future. But then, the commitment to research and higher education — the whole educational cycle — is also important for success. There is a lot of fear about the climate challenges. And there's no problem drawing scares of how society will evolve if we can't do anything about it. But it's not that hard to draw images of the good, green society either. For me, it's not about looking for more woollen people, it's about investing in more green energy. It's not about traveling on fewer vacations, it's the dream of getting our entire air park on biofuels. It's not about having fewer jobs in fossil industries, it's about creating more jobs in renewable industries and in bioenergy, which we have a lot of opportunities to do in Norway. There is also a lot of other things that go with e.g. a transport sector with smaller emissions. Then we talk about the local environment with both better air and less noise. That means that the green society is actually a better society. But if we're going to make that transition, we're going to have to think both macro and micro. Then we have to do the way in which the languages of the throne did in a good way, talk about the big commitments we have internationally, and think about the big moves ahead. But we also have to do all the little tricks that make us get the change we need in Norway. We've done that through electric car benefits, through hybrid car benefits, through changes in the entire fuel policy related to biofuels we've made it cheaper to buy, and we've made it cheaper to buy the cars that pollute little. We've done it through collective action, and we've done it through railway operations. We've done it through the fact that the monthly cards this fall have become cheaper, and it notices people – the monthly cards that have to do with the state budget, not the monthly cards that the Oslo City Council is negotiating. We are now also betting on fast chargers in the important transport corridors around Norway, we have taken action to ensure that we get solar cells on construction, and that we get depreciation rules for wind power. Yes, there is a bunch of small changes that we have now been able to make. But we also have to make the big macro changes to get the big shift. Then we also have to dry to use the charging system. We have done something in the previous budget, but we also have to do something in this. The principle is very simple: it means that you charge what you want it to be used less, and then you let go of what you want it to be used more. The willingness to increase fees has been with politicians for the last 6,000 years. The challenge of a green tax shift is that you should also return the money, so you can manage to create green markets, so that it will be profitable for those who will actually make money to make the green choices. It's a challenge for us to create in the budget for the autumn, and I'm ready to join in discussing how we're going to do it. In a world where extremism is on the rise, more than ever there is a need for liberal ideas and solutions. We believe in cross-border cooperation, we believe that the future can be better. We believe that people, regardless of background, religious affiliation or skin color, have those possibilities. We believe that cooperation is always possible, and that the result of cooperation is better than the result of isolation. We think it is possible for all people to succeed if we together facilitate the success of each of us on the same basis as possible. It's the social liberal basic idea, and the left is the only social liberal party. Some other parties are concerned with better environmental and climate policies. There are also some other batches that are concerned with facilitating the emergence of new businesses after oil. There are also some parties in this room who are committed to combating poverty. And there may be other parties that are also concerned about having a school that sees the challenges and promises every student. But it's just the Left who stands for all of this, and who's more concerned with seeing opportunities than seeing problems, because we always think that getting something better is possible. I shall end by making two proposals, No. 10 and No 11, which is a primary and subsidiary proposal that we hope to be supported, and which goes into the debate we have had earlier on child imprisonment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e975	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e982	The climate challenge is undoubtedly one of our greatest challenges, and it was the representative Skei Grande within. Despite the fact that I very much agree with what was said about the climate challenges, what can be done, in the post that was now being made, I think there is reason to question some statements that have come in the last few days, as to whether the Left is about to capitulate in the climate struggle. First of all, Trine Skei Grande said yesterday that the throne speech was probably the greenest throne speech we've ever heard. And then she came earlier today, in the line change with the representative Gahr Støre, with a climate policy tribute to the Progress Party. I don't understand that it's completely connected. The census contained very little about climate, and the Progress Party has countered any climate action that has been promoted in Stortinget. How can the leader of the Left defend the climate holest of the Progress Party? Can the representative Skei Grande describe in some areas what has been promoted by the Progress Party in the right direction of climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e991	I understand that the representative of Aasland has not had time to go through all the languages of the throne, but in fact I have. With regard to all the languages of the throne that were held when the representative of the party of Aasland put in government, the environment is hardly mentioned in any of them. The few times mentioned are in the context of trading in allowances, that you want to buy yourself free by making other countries make the big changes. So yes, this was the greenest number we've seen in a long time. It's not always that I think the Prime Minister is doing a completely dot-free job when it comes to the green -- I think most people here are familiar with -- but you can compare it to what the red-green government had in throne speeches, because there was hardly any mention of the environment. My driving force as a politician is about what I'm getting done, and what I see through these budgets, is what I've been done. But the fact that we have a challenge with this year's budget is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e996	I register that the representative chooses not to answer what I have asked for. I asked what climate-friendly initiatives the Progress Party – the party that the Left has put in the government – has promoted for the Stortinget, and in reality there are no proposals. Now, the challenge lies ahead of us. We were presented with a bill for the car and transport sector on Friday, where it is a net tax advantage for the car lists of nearly 1 billion kroner. kr. Then I can ask very specifically: can the Left vote for a budget in Stortinget, which in total gives a net gain to the drivers of 1 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1003	I am in favour of budgets that pay off to many groups, but I am not in favour of budgets that give rise to increased emissions. What we've seen, what there's been no problem with, is getting the government involved in a historic effort on public transport and rail that puts all the other bets in the shadow. One can only sit down on Oslo S and count the number of trains passing through, and compare with the number of trains passing through in previous years. It is quite obvious that this government is getting much better when it has negotiated budgets with the Left, but it is also clear that what the government has presented now, which we do not think is good enough, is considerably better than what the Labour Party has been able to deliver in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1012	The representative Skei Grande said it blows a small ‘social liberal’ wind over Europe. In Norway, I find that there is so little liberal in the wind that the Liberal Left refuses to allow young children’s parents to decide for themselves, that they will cut back both child welfare and cash support and say that free kindergarten and free SFO should apply. Is it true that the Liberal Left will override the families of young children by saying that they will only receive support if they choose what the Left believes is right, namely choosing kindergarten or SFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1017	Almost all Norwegian children go to kindergarten. The small group that doesn't do it is often the one that should have done it. For me, one of the most important freedom struggles in Norway is now about young people growing up in poor families and not getting the same start as everyone else. We know that if one comes from a very resourceful family, it doesn't mean kindergarten so much from or to, but for all those with poor advice, kindergarten means a lot for their kids' opportunities – the ability to complete high school, the ability to take higher education, the ability to do well at school. Those kids I want to give that freedom, it's an important freedom fight. It's the good start, the good educational offer, that makes them succeed in life and develop the potential in themselves. That's the freedom I'm willing to fight for. And then adults have to make different choices. It is also not all the choices that the state has to pay one to make, but to me it is the children's struggle for freedom that is important, and in that fight the fight against child poverty is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1024	The switch from black to green is called the green shift. So far, it's just two fashion words. Words must contain. Young people must be given an opportunity for an interesting, well-paid job if they enter the two words. Green shifts must include a power collection on the production and further processing of renewable natural resources, i.e. a business life related to what photosynthesis creates, namely green, renewable carbon – i.e. cod, thymote, spruce, sea, soil and forest. That's one way to say it. The left says they want more jobs in renewable industries. The center party then says: the main word to make it work is increased profitability. Will the Left work for new framework conditions that will greatly increase the profitability of this business?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1029	It doesn't happen often, but now I agreed with almost everything Per Olaf Lundtigen said. I think this is going to be very important in the future, for example. biofuels, which is a major potential for Norway. If we can bet on it, if we can bring down the price of biofuel production, we can compete out all of the aviation gasoline currently used at all of the airports, and all of the other fuels where biofuels can go in as an alternative. But then we need to get that business profitable. I entirely agree with that. We need to get that business going technologically. We need to make those products so that they can compete. But then you have to be willing to use the charging system. Then you have to be willing to allow the black carbons to get higher taxes, and then you have to have lower taxes on the green carbons, as Lundtigen talked about. Then I hope the Center Party turns around, that they're willing to charge the black carbons to make the green carbons profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1035	I share the concern of the representative Skei Grande about right-wing populism, but the Left itself has contributed to this wave by placing right-wing populists in government. One of the consequences of that is what the ultimate government came with on Friday. I know what it's like to struggle to get fossils involved in change. There are both the Workers' Party and the Progress Party suffrages. But I have to admit that when Skei Grande uses today to place the Workers' Party and not her partner in the shame hook, the thoughts are brought somewhat to the Stockholm syndrome. Once upon a time, it is the Progress Party that is in government, and it is the Progress Party that has brought with it the Prime Minister on a very little climate-friendly ultimatum that the Left now has to deal with. So I wonder: will the Left join in and create an alternative majority if it turns out to be better for the climate, or is the Left locked in its cooperation with the right populists?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1042	The left is locked to what's our goal, that's to bring down the emissions. We're happy to play with SV to get to it. We know what SV has stood up for over the years, by fighting for it, and it's good that we show mutual understanding of the struggle we're in. It is obvious that I hope that we will negotiate the budget. It's a little pointless for a minority government not to want to negotiate the budget. We have a lot of good ideas about how we are going to get emissions down, including in the budget negotiations that are now coming. For me, it's obvious that the Prime Minister promised that we would create a budget as cut emissions, and then we'll come up with a list of how we can do it. That it'll be easy, I don't think.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1049	The Greens and the Greens agree on many objectives in climate policy, and we agree that we do not like climate-friendly things, so that is why the Left was as sorry as the Greens when we had to vote for the increase in price of tickets in Oslo-Pack 3, for which the Left is now so inundated in the Greens. However, we also agree that we should try to reduce emissions in road traffic, and that is a matter of charging. We are concerned that taxes on and revenues to the State of pollution should not go into operation by the State. We have understood that the left is open to use fuel tax increases for tax relief. Wouldn't it be a commitment that people have to give the state income by contaminating?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1056	I've been to British Columbia, and then I brought the Minister of Finance. What we learned there was precisely that if you are willing to return the money, you will receive support for that kind of fee increase. They returned the money in a way that supported both those living in the districts a little more than those living in the cities, and those families with low incomes more than those with high incomes. That's how you manage to create support for the population. It doesn't help the environment, Rasmus Hansson, if we both end up under the barrier. We have to have people on the team to make the green change, and then we have to be able to show them that our goal is not to make life as uncomfortable as possible, with as much woollen or as expensive fuel as possible. No, it's actually going to be cheaper to make the green choices, and then you also have to be willing to put money in the pot in order for the green choices to be profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1063	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1068	We're now going into the last year with this government, and it's time to settle it. What will be after the Right Party government? One thing I'm going to remember, at least, is that the government had as its most important priority to implement tax cuts to those who have the most from before in Norwegian society, excellently illustrated by a look-up in the class struggle today, and that they combined these cuts with petty cuts in the incomes of many of those who have the least in this society, a policy of less justice and for increased inequality. In Norway, the differences are still quite small, it's one of the most important qualities of our society. But the inequality is increasing. It's not mentioned in the Common Era in one word, and better you can't demonstrate, I think, how indifferent this government is to that evolution, how little it cares that the inequality increases, and how little it takes inward the negative consequences of increasing differences. We know that large differences in other countries have led to greater social problems, less social mobility and lower economic growth, and yet we have a government that is willing with open eyes to take Norway in the same direction. It worries me, and it should worry the government too. The fact that the differences are increasing, we know through different numbers and statistics, but we have now also received a witness from an ex-Government Council in this government. There has been a little talk about where you've come from about page numbers in different books, and I've come to page 94 in Robert Eriksson's book 'Just do it'. After all, he said in the presentation that implementing the child supplement in the disability and combining it with a lower wealth tax would have to be translated into many of the wealthiest in society to take from the poor and give to the rich. On page 94, Eriksson writes that “good enough evidence has never been found that it is a good idea to remove” the wealth tax, and at the press conference, Robert Eriksson lamented the country’s failure to participate in this policy. I think the Progress Party should do that too, because you have led a rhetoric where you have spoken to many of those who have the least in this country, and then you have a policy that does the opposite. It's just to do it: complain about the bad guys. Some of the cuts the government has made have had hard consequences for the people affected by them. The cut in the children’s supplement is mentioned – as if more poverty would be the miracle cure for getting more people to work. I have met with children who can tell that the only consequence this cut has is to make life worse for the whole family. This means that more children are growing up in poverty, children are being punished for their parents ’ disease. Kirsti in Trondheim, for example, whom I met recently, and who also told her story in Dagbladet, is sitting in trouble these days. She said to me that every time a new state budget is presented, she asks, "What are they going to take from me now?" What does the government really know about how it goes with those who are hit by these cuts? Very little, I think, and that is why SV in today's debate is promoting a proposal that we should have it mapped, so that we actually get an overview of the social consequences of the government's cut policy towards those who have little. The blue majority has rigged the tax system for increasing differences. There will be lower taxes on what those who have the most collect their income, while ordinary people still pay a lot of taxes on their labour income. SV will have lower taxes on ordinary income, and we will have higher taxes on wealth, great inheritance, property and dividends. We want a housing policy that assumes that housing is something you live in, not something you wonder about. Today we see that the housing market can become a new, strong driver of increased inequality. Young and low wages remain outside the housing market, while at the same time we are in a vulnerable situation, with very high debts in many households. The country’s leading economists warn of the cowboy state of the housing market, but the government is silent. It's high time we changed the tax system so that it's still beneficial to own own a dwelling, but not as favourable to own someone else's home, and that we move taxes from work to property, so that we can both reduce the differences and dampen the price growth in the housing market. When our tax system encourages speculation and wants to grow prices, we have to do something, and it's amazing that so few politicians dare to get hold of it. Privatisation policies also strengthen differences. We can see that in many areas, for example: in the fisheries sector, where some of our most important resources are now concentrated on fewer hands. The right to fish is being brought together in an increasingly small number of people. The Constitution of 1814 forbade the appointment of a new nobility, and now we're getting a new yet, through the quota barons in the fisheries. We have to look back at the spirit of the Constitution, and then we have to change it in line with that. That is why the SV has recently proposed a constitution that the resources in the sea should belong to the people, and in this debate we will be tabling proposals on freezing quota changes, in line with what the Stortinget said before the summer. We have to spend the big money on the little people -- if we're going to build a warmer society, nothing is more profitable than that. It is time to focus more on more adults in schools and in kindergartens, so that there is more time for each child, more care for each child, more learning for each child. We need a national standard for teaching density in school, and we need national standards for the number of kindergarten teachers and professionals in kindergartens. SV will have an inclusive common school with a broader view of knowledge and learning, with more practical and varied training, with physical activity and a free and healthy school meal. That's what we call all day school. It's about spending the time our kids already spend on school and school work, in a better way, on creating a more inclusive day, on creating a day for more well-being, on creating a day for more learning and for social cohesion. Then we just put behind us what we must be able to call a hot and delicious September. In Hordaland, my county, it's been a summer for records. There we got three downstream records during the summer and then one heat record in September – that might not be exactly the order that people had seen. It's still going to rain in Bergen if we get a new majority, and I'm not going to owe the government for the unstable weather, but it must be allowed to use the eyes. What we see around us now in the world is serious: widths that melt, more floods, more extreme weather, more and more natural disasters. 2015 is the warmest year measured on the globe until now. And then the government is leading a climate policy that sovereignly ignores this, which ignores the need for change, which calls for a press conference to tell them to make it more profitable to drive a fossil car, in the middle of the revolution of new zero-emission technologies that we are facing in the transport sector. Why are climate ambitions not greater? Why can't we go together to do what the Paris Agreement actually requires of us? Why can't we stop telling adventures that Norwegian oil and gas can save the world from greenhouse gas emissions? This government has not presented a single proposal of importance to reduce emissions. Those who have arrived have been negotiated by parties in Stortinget. History's judgment on our generation of politicians is going to be merciless if we don't act fast and forcefully. There's no trace of that with today's majority. We know what to do. The technology to keep the oil lying down we already have, it's just not to put new living in the ocean floor. We have the new car technology, but we do not have the government's plan to set our own goals in life, so we are also promoting proposals on it. Finally, the war in Yemen has been going on for over a year. It's a brutal war that gets too little attention. The revelations about the export of Norwegian defence material to the countries participating in the Saudi coalition must awaken the Stortinget. It is a policy The Stortinget and Norway cannot be aware of, and skew against our international obligations, the laws in force and our moral duty to help those who suffer this war. Therefore, SV in the debate on the throne promotes proposals to stop this export, and I would ask all parties to take that proposal up for careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1096	The President interprets it to you that the representative Audun Lysbakken has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1101	That's absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1106	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1111	Norway is now experiencing the highest unemployment rate of more than 20 years. It's particularly noticeable at home in the West. At the same time, we see that we have the lowest employment in two decades, almost no new jobs are created. Where we see job growth is in the state bureaucracy – the Right Party and the Advance Party have delivered impressive results in this area. SV is known to be happy in the state, one has a beating heart for public employees. My question to the representative Lysbakken is whether he is impressed by the huge bureaucracy growth of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1118	I think it's a real pleasure that the Right Party, not least the Progress Party, is about to discover that people in the public sector are actually needed to implement policies. So we can sometimes disagree on what kind of policy to implement. In particular, it is to witness the rhetorical curvatures around the growth in the number of jobs in both the bureaucracy and other parts of the public sector. But it shows first of all that the right side has had a reality orientation, and that it is not so easy to get what they have said they should get. I think that should lead to a new discussion about how we get to a more efficient public sector. It is not primarily about cutting off positions, but it is about getting rid of detailed regulation, over-management and excessive control, and implementing what we call trust reforms, such as. SV and the Workers' Party now agree to do in the care of the elderly in Oslo, in a way that I think is very promising.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1124	It was an exciting response from the Lighthouse. When we were in government, we got it done. Then the numbers were different. There were 355,000 jobs created, with two thirds in the private sector – good figures, but also good times. The high unemployment rate we are seeing now shows a great need to create new jobs, especially for the many young people who are now unemployed. My question to the Lighthouse is therefore: What is SV's concrete proposal to reverse the negative trend you are now seeing, to create more new jobs and get more out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1131	What we have to do is invest in new activity and in tomorrow's jobs. The big disagreement between the Swedish government and – I think – between the whole opposition and the government is where the big money is going. Are they going to tax cuts that no one can demonstrate have a positive impact on employment and on the development of future jobs? Or are we going to invest them in a targeted way in creating new developments in different parts of our country? We mean it, for example. is a fantastic potential today for transferring knowledge and technology from the oil sector to the green industry, green energy and green industries of tomorrow, to ensure that businesses, employees and investors can switch to that tomorrow, without having to walk the path of ever-increasing unemployment and many companies that are going to end up. But then we have to have an active policy for that kind of conversion, and then we have to invest in what can deliver it, give it technology development and create markets for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1138	A good school should provide opportunities for everyone. One of the main challenges of school policy is to be able to compensate for social differences. Unfortunately, social dividing lines are reproduced from one generation to the next. One important exception here is the Oslo School, which was run by the Right for 18 years, and which is actually able to compensate for the students' background to a higher degree than the Norwegian school elsewhere. SV says they're busy reducing the differences in society, but eight years with the Minister of Knowledge doesn't bear the mark of it. Nor does SV's new school policy ambitions bear the mark of wanting to compensate for social differences: ‘Students shall acquire power in most of the SV schools. Except to opt out of the SV school." This said SV's own Andreas C. Halse, who writes in the evening post that SV's school policy is tailored for academic children who want more student democracy. How should more student democracy lead to less social differences in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1150	That comment was made on a concrete proposal regarding compulsory high school, for which SV is not, and for which I do not think SV is going to go. So we can leave that debate behind. And then I think with all due respect that more student democracy is hardly what prevents social mobility in school. What prevents social mobility in school is that we have a school that does not sufficiently respect practical learning, that we have a school where too many people fall from because they experience a day-to-day school where they can not be respected, where they do not experience mastery. This is why more early efforts and a change in school day with greater room for things that the Right is not interested in prioritizing — more practical learning, more physical activity, creating a school with a broader learning vision — are essential for children with different backgrounds to have a good opportunity in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1155	We know that making demands on the students helps them master the subjects. Betting on knowledge and demands in school may be the most important thing for those students who have the weakest foundation. For me, it is difficult to understand the context of SV's policy. The objective of reducing social disparities is simply not related to the instruments proposed by the SV. SV is against the limit of absenteeism, an action I believe is taking just those students who need it the most. SV will have alternative assessment methods, not increased competence requirements for teachers. And SV adds a number of changes to the game program that involve taking more power and control from the teacher in the classroom. In Oslo, we have had high learning pressures, close follow-up, documentation, monitoring performance and transparency around the results, which have produced good results, social mobility and high well-being. Will SV distance themselves from this policy now that they have gained power in the Oslo school? I mention that the first thing they did was they took away two hours of science.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1163	This post confirms a suspicion I've had, namely that right-wing school politicians haven't very much settled down and taken over what our leading experts at school are now saying to us. The Ludvigsen Committee, which has therefore delivered its report to Kristin Vinje's government, states that a major challenge at the Norwegian school today is that the learning vision is too narrow, that the school becomes too instrumental, that the national quality assessment system with excessive testing and target management makes the school too narrow, and that the room to follow up each student and to follow up not least different types of students becomes too small. That's why this sample just argues for a broader school, with greater room for the practical, with greater room for creativity and with greater room for depth learning, instead of just learning what to reproduce on the next test.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1167	The right view of school is out of date. We now see that the whole hegemony of the debate is changing away from what the Right stands for, because what Kristin Vinje is talking about here, is not the recipe of a more inclusive school, but on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1170	It seems to be a quite clear red thread in SV’s policy that there is an extreme belief in public benefits, redistribution and social security – not one word about value creation. Just added to the representative Lightground confirmed it. Value creation and who will finance all these benefits were not mentioned in a single word. SV also chose to withdraw from the negotiations on a tax reform for conversion and growth in the springpart. because SV wants a national property tax. As you know, the property tax is very unsocial. It is equally independent of housing loans, and it will particularly affect families with children, newly established and minimum pensioners. Then the question is, what kind of dwelling does the real representative Lysbakken think it is possible to get a purchase if you keep to the bottom of the 1 million. kr, which SV proposed in its model property tax in its budget for 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1175	Firstly, the representative Limi has a big explanation problem if he is so concerned about value creation. So he's supporting a government that's spent 18.5 billion. kr on tax cuts, which no one can demonstrate has a positive impact on value creation, while what we want to do is to invest more in what gives development. I'm talking about fisheries, for example, and I'm talking about investing in the knowledge sector. Property taxes are another good example. If the representative Limi has read today's business lately, he will have seen that it is not long since a young founder stood there and was despaired because young businessmen – the quote was, as far as I remember – «run around and buy homes instead of starting businesses». It is the consequence of a tax regime that encourages speculation and investment in property rather than investment in value creation. The Progress Party will do absolutely nothing about that. Our property tax model will lead to better distribution in Norway. It is fully possible to create a model that benefits well, by moving taxes and at the same time making sure that those who have the most and put the money into property have to tax more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1184	I want to end this line with another theme that SV raised in the last week. It has been a debate about faith, life's vision and religion's place in society – an important debate. But I'm recording that SV has a slightly different view than my party on it, because to me it seems that it's the French society that stands out as an example for SV, with a secular state and belief in life's vision neutral. I record that SV says that belief should be a private matter, religion should have a ‘revoked’ place in society. In many ways, it seems like one wants to hide religion a little bit like that on the root ceiling-like -- excuse the expression, President. So my question is, is it the French society that stands out as an example in this area, and does SV really believe that it is possible to say that something is going to be life-vision neutral? Shouldn't we say a life-visioned society either?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1191	An important question. On the question first, whether France is exemplary, I would say no. I mean, for example. the French authorities go too far in prohibiting religious symbols. SV is a party with deep respect for faith, with many believing members and believing voters, but at the same time a party that is concerned that there should be clear dividing lines between what is our state and what is our civil society. We are committed to defending freedom of faith, but we are also concerned about having a secular state, and we are concerned that religion should not be allowed to become – as it has sometimes been in history, and still may be in our society – an excuse to establish a kind of zone of freedom for different types of oppressive practices. That is why, as regards the rules on the allocation of religious communities, for example, we have proposed that we should be able to withdraw money, for example. in cases of extreme social control. I think that's right, and it can be combined well with a society with plenty of room for faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1196	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1202	In this year's census, the government says that the Paris Agreement provides us with a new framework for climate action, and that all countries, including Norway, have to follow up their commitments. In the government statement and previous speeches and opinions of a number of other parties, we hear the same thing – we get references to the administrative responsibility, the precautionary principle, etc. It's funny being in the Green Party when all the other parties agree on what we want. But I'm on the Energy and Environment Committee, and there we don't get plans for government treatment on how to bring down greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. The next 13 years. We are not dealing with any coordinated policy to stop the loss of nature in Norway. And in the United Kingdom, our proposals to have a plan to bring consumption in Norway down to a sustainable level in line with the UN's sustainable objectives, to which the government has recently joined, are voted down by a large majority. Of course, good things are happening, and it is good that the government has presented a new climate law, although it is Daff preliminary. There will be more funding for public transport, technology and innovation, and that is fine. And it's great with money for carbon capture. In addition, the opposition promotes a number of good proposals that drive the political agenda in the right direction. But then the prime minister takes our breath, and then she says the favorite rumor that makes everything all right: two thoughts in her head at once. And then she distributes money to highways, oil research, oil licenses and killing permits on two thirds of Norwegian wolves. The Workers' Party and the Center's party vote in favour and say no on the contrary to lifting a little more environmental sense into the prices of aircraft seats and fossil fuels. The sum of two-tank-in-head policies is, as you know, that emissions do not go down, that according to the Environment Directorate, 200 new square kilometres of non-interventional nature disappear in Norway each year, that food soils continue to be degraded, and that material consumption is increasing, without people becoming happier. The government and large parts of the opposition solution to all of this are called ‘green growth’. It is a beautiful idea if it is translated into practice. But Per Espen Stoknes at Business College BI has gone through the OECD figures for green growth, and they show that Norway has much less green growth than the countries around us. He asserts that: ‘Norway hangs again in a ‘brown’ growth model from the 1900s in a world where our neighboring countries change. In particular, Norway is lagging behind, i.e. offshore and transport’. In the Offshore, the Right, known as the Progress Party, controls the show in a secure assurance of moral and, most often, political support from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and with the parliamentary blessing of the Left and Christian People's Party. The Green Party has long pointed out that it is particularly in offshore and transport that we need to make the major changes in Norwegian policy if there is to be a change. Two days ago, a technical article concluded that if we extract all the coal, oil and gas in the fields that are already in production — the fields that are already in production — the world will not achieve the 2-degree target. So, there's less and less room, probably, in the climate commitments we've already made, to open up new oil and gas fields. That is why we want to start discussing the closure of the most polluting Norwegian fields on the contrary. This morning the NRK referred to studies which showed that it is less energy-intensive and thus less climate-polluting to produce oil in the Middle East than in large Norwegian oil platforms at sea. Physically, it's quite obvious and it's been a long time. In other words, the great moral argument for Norwegian oil industry is confusing, and the Greens want us to have a real climate account for the actual emissions that a whole Norwegian oil sector is responsible for. All of this means that the Greens' proposals for the planned phase-out of oil and gas activities over a 20-year period are becoming increasingly less radical. The relationship is on the contrary that now the other parties at Stortinget must soon take up the facts and join in a substantive debate on how we do it. The government says that it will base its efforts to convert Norway into a low-carbon society on three recognitions: firstly, that we can achieve our social goals; secondly, that well-being depends on high value creation; and thirdly, that we need to reform the public sector because the petroleum activity has given us wind on the sails — that is a rather remarkable metaphor for the rest. These recognitions may be an interesting starting point, but we have to understand them and interpret them correctly. Yes, we can achieve our social goals, but then we first have to recognize what the social goals actually have to be. The Greens want more than a low-carbon society. We need a sustainable society, and it's a different society. It is not a slightly adjusted version of Norway in 2016. It's a society balanced with life on Earth. It is a society where well-being and development are not based on using and charging the environment more and more. And it's a society where the growth takes place within knowledge, recognition, quality, peace and inclusion. That is the social goal of the Greens. But what social goals do we see decades to come if we put on the political spectacles of the Right Party, the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party? Well, we see more green technology, we see more green solutions and maybe a little bit lower emissions -- maybe. But we also see more and more motorways and more airports, we see less and less nature and less and less food, we see more consumption, and we see oil operations in the North East, and we see no wolves. Above all, we hear the 2040s and 2050s Solberger and Stører and Battle Violence Vedumer cry out: We must have even more motorways, otherwise business will end with, future well-being depends on us consuming even more, and Norwegian oil business will always be a blessing to Earth's climate. Now and now, this is the real prospect of the policy that most parties in the Grand Duchy are pursuing, and that is not what we are going to do. Yes, well-being requires value creation, but there must be a value creation that does not continue to destroy values. Even more consumption in 2050 will give people a worse life when the consequences of consumption are taken into account. Yes, we need to reform the public sector, but not to introduce more New Public Management. We need to reform the public sector to support and ensure the quality of the Norwegian change project, not be a brake pad, which the public sector is all too often. And we need to change what weighs most in the Norwegian accounts, which has the most signaling effect and is most credible confirmation that we are really betting on the transition from fossils to the sustainability society. People and business clearly say that they want a more ambitious green policy. They're going to believe in the Storting and that the Storting wants it on the day it's the majority to move the heaviest instruments to green food development and away from lifelong oil business. They're going to believe it when the main effort is shifted to more public transport and away from motorways. That's when we trigger the will to change people and businesses. The evil and suffering in the Middle East take our breath away. The EU is cracking in the seams, and Donald Trump is not just an improbable parody. Is everything then spoken about Norwegian nature, environment and climate just narrow-minded one-way policy and lack of overview? No, it is not because environmental policy is fundamental solidarity and accountability. Globally, it is the most effective policy to counteract the biggest cause of conflict in the future, namely that the basis of life is destroyed for millions and perhaps hundreds of millions of people. At home, it is the policy that will give the most to a society that takes care of real values and that includes more in our society. We are therefore promoting four loose proposals: Firstly, the Stortinget, having regard to the Paris Agreement and the EU target of 40 p.m. Cuts in greenhouse gas emissions ask the government to withdraw the oil and gas extraction permits in the 23rd concession round and cancel the 24th concession round Secondly, the Stortinget asks the government to ensure that the state budget for 2017 reduces greenhouse gas emissions in line with the objective of reducing them by 40 pst. by 2030, i.e. reduce by 1,6 million tonnes of CO 2 in 2017 Thirdly, the Storting asks the Government to transfer all unused funds of the 7.3 billion allocated to refugee costs in Norway in 2016 to foreign aid for use in 2016 and 2017 Fourthly, the Storting asks the government to stop the planned wolf shooting proposed by the predators and to maintain the wolf population in Norway at the current level I will bring this up with the proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1257	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1265	Both yesterday and today, the representatives of the Left have said that this year's throne speech was of the greenest kind ever. I'm a little bit unsure if we've heard the same speech. Now I'm actually wondering what kind of speech that was the representative Hansson heard. Does the Green Party representative think that the number of thrones was of the greenest kind ever, and that the government is now finally taking the greenhouse gas emissions seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1270	Now, the competition for not holding green thrones is hard. So whether the throne speech we heard yesterday was hacked more green than anyone else or not, hunting is hard for me to decide. It wasn't green. I guess that's what Mr. Heavy wants. It was a throne speech that absolutely does not take over the environmental and climate obligations we face, and above all does not warn of binding policies, which are the key words of the policy we need to implement both emission reduction and conservation of Norwegian nature, and which no government – neither red nor blue – has yet led, but which must be carried out if we are to be able to call the government, and perhaps next year's census, green.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1275	The President may think the representative went a little beyond the limits of parliamentary language in this answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1280	The representative, Hansson, did not spend so much time putting into practice what he meant by cutting wealth growth, but the environmental party that the Greens are actually proposing is to reduce working time in Norway from eight to six hours without pay compensation. That means 20 pst. welfare education in the private welfare of all Norwegian workers. Alternatively, they have a sample that has proposed instead to cut wages and salaries, cut the sick pay scheme and introduce one holiday week without compensation. It could be a boring holiday week for many of us. My question is therefore, because the whole background to this reasoning is that it is not possible to combine wealth growth for ordinary people with cuts in emissions, but now in the world we have seen that emissions from energy production have been cut off while the world economy has grown by over 3pst. : Is the representative Hansson open to change policies and say that we can both ensure people's well-being and reduce emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1287	First of all, I would like to point out that the representative Asheim represents a party that is very busy talking about cutting emissions while increasing well-being, but that does not. It's going to be most fun to have this discussion with the representative Asheim and the right on the day they actually deliver what they say can happen. There is no explicit green policy to introduce a 6-hour day. We want to reduce working time. We are currently looking at more models of how we will reduce working time, where the point is better well-being by allowing people to take out more of their value creation in leisure than in consumption, which everyone knows will destroy people's well-being in the long term if not limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1294	When I hear the representative Hansson, sometimes I wonder if we're on the same planet. I guess that wonder also goes the other way. But we're after all that. One thing, at least, is to respect the Environmental Party of the Greens' spokesman, and it is that he is quite honest about how he intends to do things. They are honest that they will have a huge increase in the air passenger fee – it will be up to NOK 600. This has been proposed. You are very honest about the fact that the next year you will be proposing an increase in the fuel charge of 5 kroner, which will be up to 15 kroner in the next period, i.e. an increase in the fuel charge. You can be honest that you, among other things: in the city we are now in, want to pay tolls of up to NOK 160 per pass. And you're clear, even in the capital, where the Green Party rules, that it's going to be more expensive for those who want to travel collectively. Most people are going to get pretty tough when you're going through the transition that the representative is talking about. Why are most people going to get this bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1301	The reason why most people have to pay more for the ticket prices in Oslo as of next year is that the Right demanded to use the ticket prices as part of the financing of public transport in Oslopackak 3. It was the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party. So the representative's government partner wanted it. That's the way it goes when the right-hand side is going to determine ticket prices. The Greens are clearly concerned that prices must reflect environmental costs. It must be less profitable to pollute and more profitable not to pollute. Flight prices are insanely low in relation to the costs it imposes on society and the future. The size has decided that we should phase out fossil cars, and then we must also use instruments to do so. That is why we are willing to propose a strong price increase on fuel, but at the same time we are proposing a climate reward scheme where these funds are sent back to people – otherwise a scheme that I have heard from the Left's Trine Skei Grande supports in a previous reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1308	In 2011, the Christian People's Party got a majority to ask the government to assess its own climate law, without anything happening. In 2015, we joined the Green Party and the Centre Party, and we have now, fortunately, received a legislative proposal at the hearing. My question to the representative is: What is the biggest shortage and challenge of putting in place a good climate law?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1314	Thanks to the Christian People's Party for great efforts for a climate law and for great cooperation to get a majority for it in the Stortinget now. The biggest flaw in the climate law that has been put forward – and it is good to note that it has been presented, because then we have something to bite – is that it is extremely non-binding, and it lacks one of the most important instruments that a climate law must have in order to function, namely a climate budget, such as climate change. The City Council in Oslo, and Oslo is no small thing, has managed to present in the budget of the year. It is by means of the climate budget, a carbon emissions budget, we can know what measures have what effect, and operate the real political shift of emissions based on what measures work and what measures do not work, just as we move entries in the economic budgets, to which we are good at and believe is a good tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1320	The Greens are in favour of collective action. We've seen that both nationally and locally. I have also come to the conclusion that the Greens are positive towards the railways. Now, over the last few days, we've seen in a series of headlines that there's concern in the sector. NSBs down by 300. It's a strike. There are also more people who are aware that there is an increase in criminalisation in the railway sector. What does the Green Party think about these questions? That's a first result of the railway reform, like the Senterpartiet mfl. was contrary to last year, so it is interesting to hear how the Green Party is dealing with what is happening, both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1327	The Green Party probably does not have an answer to all the single factors involved in the rail sector. But what's quite obvious is that we want the railway to be the top priority mode of transport at long distance in mainland Norway. This means that we are concerned with the political signals for the railway sector as a whole, and that the appropriations for the railway sector as a whole reflect it — at the expense of heavy motorway construction, etc. And with such a priority and such clarity in railway investment, there is also reason to expect that there will be calmness and positive attitudes within the sector – without me going into detail on exactly how it will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1338	I think I can agree with the representative Hansson that both the languages of the throne and the budgets that come in the years to come must all be the greenest ever. This also applies to the local budgets provided. It is a fact that the Greens are now in position, in Oslo, as well, a budget has been put forward to increase collective prices. Probably some of the tickets go up by 15-20 pst. – we'll see when Router has calculated this. This is something we have to take responsibility for, because the Green Party has been a negotiating party on the part of Oslo – the other party is Akershus – and of course we have responsibility for the result. It's not just about what you mean, it's about what you actually do. This is done in a situation where state aid for public transport in Oslo is significantly higher than ever before. Now it's up to 400 million. kr per year, which is 150 million. kr in increase only this year. Then my question is: how will the Green Party take responsibility for the prices in Oslo, and how will you work to keep them as low as possible and avoid that increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1347	As the representative of Elvesuen very well knows, there is no increase in ticket prices in the budget that the Oslo City Council has now presented. It was a ticket price increase that was adopted in June as a result of Oslopackak 3 and that the left voted for. That's because Oslopackak 3 was a complete package, where we got 50 billion. kr extra to expand the really big and heavy collective efforts in Oslo. In this year's Oslo budget, we have the largest increase in operating grants ever for public transport and doubling of investment funds, and according to Router, this will result in a traffic increase of about 10 pst. in Oslo. We're just like the left to increase ticket prices, and we're going to leave it as far as we can. But like Left, we were in a situation where we made a settlement in the Oslo package, and that was what they and we voted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1354	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1359	Ensuring good mobility in society is one of our important tasks. It is to ensure that we get a labour market that is functioning well because labour and employers find each other. It's making sure that people have good access to different leisure activities, not just what's walking away from where you live, but what's in the whole region where you belong. The possibility of going on holiday and getting exchanged is also an important part of the sense and need for mobility. Similarly, businesses need a holistic and good approach to infrastructure. They shall have access to labour. They're going to get the goods out to the market. They shall ensure that they are part of a larger cluster, which allows ideas and creativity to flourish, and that the industry in Norway is well competitive. Unfortunately, we see a little too many approaches where one believes that one will limit people's mobility by removing alternatives, increasing costs and increasing prices, and that one then solves the everyday challenges to people. The government doesn't think so. We have to make sure that people get around at a lower price than they had yesterday, not at a higher price. It's part of giving people opportunities in a society that has a lot of people. Government policy has been a priority in getting infrastructure that works. That is why we have spent a lot of money on maintenance and renewal. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have made sure that in all areas of the transport sector we are now reducing the maturity. The decay that was increased under different governments, but which really increased under the red-green government, we've now begun to cut in. That means that the standard on the roads gets a little bit better every year, instead of a little bit worse. Railways become a little more well-functioning every year – rather than a little worse. The installations along the coast work a little better. What's also good in this context is that we get more employment. Many of the maintenance contracts are well-suited for local businesses, for small and medium-sized operators. In the situation of oil industry turbulence, it is very important to ensure that the jobs created go to Norwegian actors rather than to international actors. I have not spent my time travelling abroad to recruit foreign companies to Norway, as my predecessors did. Similarly, it is important that we build infrastructure with better capacity. Some places people are too much in line. The business experience that the goods do not arrive without being severely delayed. That is why we must also build new ones. The fact that things we have work is important. But increasing our capacity is also important. We have investments all over the country. A region like North Norway has, for example, has doubled its crown allocation during the current government compared to the previous government. It shows that we're going to use the whole country, both cities and districts. We've invested a lot in public transport. It's also about ensuring that people have freedom of choice in their everyday lives, that those who can park the car feel that public transport gives them the transport they need. They can park the car with a good conscience because they know that they are still getting where they are going, better, and would like to cheaper, and not least more comfortable than if they are driving themselves – simply by making sure that they e.g. can sit with your mobile phone in hand and read e-mails, newspapers, etc. on it, instead of having to follow the traffic scene around it. That's why we've also invested a lot in material. We're renewing the railway fleet. We're increasing the frequency. But also with regard to the cities and the collective effort there, we have made a big shift with today's majority. With the help of the Left and Christian People's Party, an increase in the funding for the reward scheme for public transport. One is in the process of setting up urban environmental agreements. That means that a town that Oslo now gets about. Four times as large a budget by today's majority as one averaged in recent years by a red-green majority. There were many people who talked about public transport and how important it was, but it is when the money comes on the table that one can deliver such offers. It shall be safe to travel in traffic. I am proud that in the work that all the parties on the Stortinget have supported – and across different governments – we see the result of road safety. In 2015, we had a record low number of traffic fatalities. We're very close. The goal is still zero, but when we're at a level that corresponds to the level in 1947, although we have 25 times more cars on the roads, a lot of people have done it right over time. As late as yesterday, I was at an event that marked road safety for horses in traffic, so there are many different groups of road users to be cared for. The job is not done, but fortunately we see results. The government wants to reduce some of the customs walls around cities and districts. By trying to cut tolls, we help traffic to float a little bit easier, that people don't have to look at the wallet as hard when they're going to go where they're going. In the 2016 budget, we proposed a toll cut. It didn't get a majority. We're going to work on it, because economic walls can be as barrier-free as bad roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1387	It is always pleasant to hear the Council of State, who is working hard every day to live up to the level of ambition of the national transport plan presented by the Stoltenberg II Government, and he is almost able to do it. There's more maintenance, in line with that plan, there's more capacity, and roads are being built all over the country. We're happy about that. However, it is alarming that the Council of State, which is responsible for the sector that accounts for about one third of the total emissions in Norway, will be able in 2016 to hold a five-minute introduction to the Stortinget without taking the word ‘climate’ in its mouth. The Paris Agreement was concluded last year. It's a global commitment agreement. Norway has clear international obligations relating to it, and former member of the State Council of Solvik-Olsen, former Council of State of Tine Sundtoft, said after that agreement was concluded, that if we are to meet our commitments, the dramatic means of doing so. Preliminary figures show that emissions increased from 2014 to 2015 as a result of road traffic. Does the government have a policy to reduce road traffic emissions? Are they going to increase next year, or are they going to fall, as our obligations require?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1396	I am pleased that the Workers' Party is satisfied with the policy that the government is implementing, where we are doing more than what was planned in the National Road Maintenance Transport Plan, and more than what was planned on the railway. We are also reforming many sectors to get more money back, as opposed to what was planned in the National Transport Plan. If this is the case that the Workers' Party thinks that any plan submitted will be automatically implemented, I am still looking forward to obtaining the results of the 1963 National Motor Road Plan presented by the Workers' Party. When it comes to knowledge of climate policy, I didn't think everything had to be mentioned every time in Stortingen to have a memory for what's happening. We see that emissions from new car sales in Norway are at a record low level – much lower than when the Workers' Party crashed. The railway investment has increased by more than 6000 million. kr only in 2016, compared to what was the level when the Workers' Party crashed. Appropriations for public transport are between two and three times greater than the amount of the Workers' Party's public transport compensation scheme. All of this gives people the opportunity to travel collectively and in a vehicle with lower emissions. We're good on route... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1413	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1419	Despite this estimation, emissions from road traffic are increasing – contrary to our obligations. I don't agree with the Council of State that everything should be mentioned every time, but when you jump over one of the biggest challenges we're facing, it's not any detail. It's actually one of the main challenges we're facing. The highway plan is a recurring theme in the state council's statements, and I can remember once again the council that it was actually his government partner, Right, who dropped it, and Chickenland was Minister of Transport. Earlier today, we have heard the representative, Skei Grande, put a stamp on the government's climate policy. We think that is a bit alarming, but the question is: What increases in fuel taxes has the Council of State actually told the representative Skei Grande that the government has room for next year? Do you have anything to go on that you haven't shared with the rest of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1428	Here the representative Sivertsen himself mentions that climate has been the topic of many speeches in the debate earlier. I also thought that a throne debate would be about the breadth of politics and not just about one theme. That is why I supplemented with a lot of information that has not come from other articles. It is also a little strange that the Workers' Party says that when the Right has taken decisions many decades ago on a national motorway plan, the Workers' Party has only accepted it afterwards. This government does not intend to allow other parties' decisions to govern what we do, either now or in the future. That's why we're doing what's right, regardless of whether the Workers' Party is protesting against the way the government is doing. Fortunately, in the case of climate, it is much more than just the tax on petrol and diesel, although the Workers' Party in this article seems to believe it. That's exactly why I mentioned a lot about railway bets and collective bets, because it's about giving people alternatives to driving the cars they own today. In addition, the emissions from new car sales are much lower than they were under the control of the Workers' Party. This indicates that we are on the right course, even though – as I said – we are not in target.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1437	Intelligent traffic systems allow us to drive through toll stations without stopping to pay, we can buy a ticket on the bus via mobile phone, cars can follow cars in front without even braking or giving gas, and with self-driving cars we can only see the start of the possibilities that lie in ITS. There is no doubt that ITS is an important factor in addressing the challenges of road safety, capacity, environment and climate. Better information technology in the road sector will affect behaviour and improve transport solutions and traffic management. ITS can improve accessibility and road safety, and there are many possibilities. What will the Council of State do to stimulate the increased use of intelligent traffic systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1444	I thank you for a question that is really forward-looking. That's where we must have looked when we're going to solve the challenges we have today. It is important to see how we can use intelligent traffic systems and technologies and get businesses, legislators and not least consumers to put technology into practice. In all transport sectors as a whole, it is about providing passengers and drivers with more information in order to be able to choose the best possible means of travel and the best possible route for each means of travel. In this field, we work with the Vegvessen, as for example. cooperate with Volvo to see how they can integrate that type of information. We have good conversations with the major telecommunications operators to see how information they're sitting on can be used anonymously, but give us a picture of the traffic. We know that both the Avinor, the Coastal Agency, the Railway Agency and the Vegvessen have major programmes in place, and our national transport plan will be strongly influenced by the opportunities offered by the ITS for better mobility and a better transport day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1451	The cut-off in the NSB, as we've seen lately, and the strike among the drivers shows what reality the Norwegian railway is going into. The government's desire to privatise the operation of Norwegian railways will increase the pressure on employees, but not necessarily in a way that improves the provision of services for passengers. Will the staffing of the NSB lead to a better offer for the travellers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1456	The context of everything we do on the railway will provide a better offer to travellers in terms of both frequency, quality and comfort. That is what the reform is all about. First of all, we spend a lot more money than before on the infrastructure. If the infrastructure doesn't work, we can do whatever we want with it, but one won't make it work. That is why we have been so far ahead of the national transport plan for all three years because we have to fix the infrastructure. After eight years of red-green decay, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have reduced the decay of today's government, It is important that we ensure better organisation, better sharing of responsibilities, so that one has not duplicated the tasks in many organisations. There's some of what the NSB is now picking up, because we're collecting ownership and responsibility in one place instead of in several. So we want to have competition to offer the best possible services, but it's not like we're getting a brutalization. Just a few months ago – just a few weeks ago – I was told that more people are going to work on other parts of the railway. There are no fewer jobs in the railway, there are only fewer intermediaries in the NSB, and more people who want to make offers to the travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1465	We have all come to the conclusion that the Council of State and the Progress Party want to reduce the toll – both the number of stations and the amounts. At the same time, we have also learned that the Progress Party wants to build more road across the country. For our part, and perhaps also for several other parties on Stortinget's part, we want to expand a lot of public transport. We know that tolls are involved in financing both parts, both some road development and especially public transport. From the left we are not willing to sacrifice any of the collective projects. We believe that in the future we need more collective effort, we need more to use bus, tram and T-Bahn, and we need to facilitate bicycle paths, etc. Then my question is to the Council of State: how do you make this happen when you cut tolls at the same time – both in the number of stations and in the rates. Is it really a game for the gallery when you want to get both public traffic and, not least, new roads, and when you tell the media and the voters that you want to cut the toll rates? Is this really a game for the gallery?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1472	It's not a game for the gallery. We get it and have shown through the budgets that we both build more roads, set more collective, build more railways and build more bike paths, and we also have to reduce tolls. It's a bet that's been going on lately, it's all about increased appropriations. We've spent about 25 billion. kr more than the red-green on road investment so far, and a budget remains. So it's true, as the representative says, in the urban packages around the big cities, there's a part or a lot of the toll involved in financing public transport. But in what the government has announced that we are presenting in the state budget, we say that where we are going to cut tolls, there is pure funding of road projects, i.e. not where one also has income for public transport. Thus, there has been no misunderstanding between what the representative Raja and I want in terms of public transport, and what the Progress Party wants in terms of tolls. By increasing the appropriations for existing road projects with tolls, where tolls are only for the financing of the road, it means paying it down faster. Then you save the cars for money. It also means that business improves its competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1481	On Friday, the government had a press conference in which it announced at least some of its actions in the field of transport climate. Fuel charges shall be increased, commuter deductions increased, and many have called into question the fact that the sum of this could not as well be increased greenhouse gas emissions as reduced emissions. It also says Lars-Erik Borge, who led the Green Tax Commission, to the Newspaper today. He stated that this might as well lead to more driving and increased emissions, and said that the proposal was in the opposite direction to the Green Tax Commission's proposal. Here there is some confusion about a very central theme: government policy contributes to lower emissions from the transport sector or higher emissions from the transport sector. It looks like no one knows. Do the state councils know?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1488	As mentioned when this was presented on Friday, at least the Ministry of Finance estimates show that emissions will decrease. But climate policy is not just about fuel taxes, as the left-hand side tries to give the impression. Climate policy and good urban environment policy are, in fact, about the whole of the transport system and ensure that more of today’s drivers receive a good collective offer, which enables them to meet their mobility challenges without reducing the day, in the sense that travel time is longer, and without rising the price, which means that they get a worse private economy. That's why we make sure that it's more attractive to travel around the cities collectively, because we're giving more money to the cities, and we're betting more on the railways. But those who depend on a car in the districts, there's no reason for us to punish, because they have no alternative. That's why we have a package that's connected. We have a commuting allowance, we have tolls, and there are toll stations on the main roads between cities. This makes it a little cheaper, while where alternatives are available, the alternatives will be more attractive with these investments. Then you get the emissions down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1493	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1499	There's hardly any job growth in this country. Under this government 25 000 more jobs have been created so far. Three out of four of them are in the public sector. It's not viable on sight. So I understand that in the Common Era it is underlined that the government must be «more concerned with private sector value creation». It's a subtle comment, which I can easily agree with. A few days ago, the Employer’s Organisation could point out that ‘the speech of the figures is that Norway’s position at the employment summit is threatened’, because while the population in the country grew by about 50,000 people a year, employment in the last few years has only grown by a few thousand a year. And in 2016, there is even a decline in the number of people at work. Rogaland has the highest unemployment rate, with 11,263 unemployed persons. There are also quite a number of spouses, children, and close family members who are directly affected. Norway is the country in the world that has the best leadership and the most potential. But the good intentions we have are not used to realize the possibilities we have. On the contrary, differences in our country are increasing – between poor and rich, between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs, between cities and countries, between women and men. Now the government is not responsible for everything that goes wrong, but they are responsible for everything they do and for everything they don't do. When they present a gender equality message that is only for gender equality policy – it is their responsibility. When they present a government budget that has large social tax cuts that do not create jobs, it is their responsibility. And when they weaken the employee's position, they're responsible for it. We make up the opposition, we also make them responsible. And that's where we take different choices, we want to go in a different direction, where communities are weighted more, where the possibilities of people and small differences are weighted more. It is a demanding time for the country, and the Labour Party believes that when there are demanding times, we are stronger together. It means proposing measures to reduce the social and economic differences between people, to have a tax policy that is fair, so that those who have the most, are also the ones that pay the most, while ordinary people have equal or lower taxes, as we have suggested in our alternative budget. It also means that everyone has a job to go to. Then we have to have security for work, that is, that more jobs are created, that there will be job growth in this country again, and that there is security at work, that is, that ordinary people know that they have us in their backs by strengthening and renewing the Working Environment Act so that a better catch up with what is today's reality. So we need a more active and targeted business policy. Among other things, it means that we need to prioritize more clearly, spend more money in areas where we see that the country has a special advantage, look at the nutrition research programmes and align them more closely with the areas where we see that we have that kind of advantage, so that research supports under the potential of these industries. Norway is a small country, but we have several sectors with a high export potential, and we have a great deal of expertise, not least in our own oil and gas sectors and in the supply industry, and that competence will have a central role in building up more resilient industries. Then there are three things that are decisive. For the first time, it is vital for the petroleum industry, because it is going to continue to be important for us for many years to come; for the second, we are building bridges from the competences of oil, to our educational pathways, both basic, continuing education and higher education, because future trade union workers and business developers must be trained by those who are the foremost today, thirdly, that there are more contact areas between the competences of oil and what can become future industries, through, for example, oil. programs like Transferit. In any case, there is no reason why people with the skills available from this industry should continue to leave without the use of their skills — and at risk of confusion between their competences and their knowledge. Today there are almost 8 000 vacant engineers. Many of them are from the West. They want to work. Let's give them the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1518	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1523	Now the representative did not mention climate in his post, but there has been a hot topic here today, also in many of the contributions from the Workers' Party representatives. The party leader of the Workers' Party criticised earlier today the government's proposal for a green tax shift, despite the government's proposal, is larger than the Workers' Party's budget for 2016. In the past, Tajik’s colleague, representative Terje Lien Aasland, has been out signalling that fossil fuels need to be more expensive to make environmentally friendly choices. Furthermore, he has said that the Left would like to come to the Workers' Party in order to obtain an impact on tax increases, but also reliefs, in order to carry out a green tax shift. Therefore, I wonder if it is possible to get a very specific answer to how much the Workers' Party is willing to increase the fees on fossil fuels by, and what kind of relief the Workers' Party wants to give to compensate for this. Or maybe there's no room for relief anymore, now that we know that the Workers' Party needs 26 billion. kr in increased taxes to finance their election promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1530	This is great fun. The representative, Bru, is here in this Chamber and challenges me to comment on a budget that has not been submitted to this Chamber – a budget that has been played by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, during the most formal framework of times, i.e. through a press conference in the Prime Minister's office. Of course, the Labour Party will decide on the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party when they are submitted to the Stortinget and it is possible to see the context of the proposals that have been submitted. Then we will also put forward our alternative to this. Then I also have to say that there is a creative calculation provided by the representative Bru when it relates to tax revenue and the Workers' Party. I understand that they have to paint that kind of scare image of our party. We have shown repeatedly through our alternative budget that we are conducting a responsible economic policy, where ordinary people pay about the same in taxes as they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1537	I just have to say that the party leader in the Workers' Party earlier today did not deny the calculation that the Right has made by the Labour Party election vows. Then I wonder: What does the representative Tajik think is wrong in this calculation? The quotation I referred to, from the representative of Aasland, came this summer. Then the Workers' Party invited to an agreement on green fees in Stortinget. Then there is something especially not to be more specific about what is needed for increases in fuel taxes, when you first invite to a settlement. So I still believe that it is within the scope of asking for a concrete understanding of how high the Workers' Party is willing to go. Do you want to go beyond what you suggested in your alternative budget in 2016, which is lower than what the government has now proposed, or do you think that this level is fine?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1544	The representative of Aasland has, on a general basis, invited one to discuss policy with the Labour Party. That we're able to form multiples, which sometimes are part of the Right Party and the Progress Party, and that sometimes – with all due respect – is at their expense, we've shown that over the course of these three years. So on a general basis: welcome; discuss the budget with us too. The second part of the question from the representative Bru is about their alleged calculation of the payroll of the Workers' Party. I can totally reject it. There are three reasons why this is wrong. The only reason is that one of us here expects everything to be phased in in a year. It shouldn't. We have shown that a step by step can implement policies, that is what is sensible and responsible. Secondly, it is absolutely impossible to understand how they have come up with their numbers. When, for example: says it's going to cost 3 billion. If you want to put one hour of physical activity in the school, it must mean that Right will give all students annual cards in the health studio – we don't agree with that. Thirdly, the workers' party's alternative policy will be agreed at our national meeting in spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1551	The representative Tajik did not address justice policy in his speech, but she is the head of the Justice Committee, so I intend to ask questions about it. The Judicial Committee was travelling in Stockholm last week and got an in-depth knowledge of the situation in Sweden. Thanks to the migration of asylum over many years in Sweden – the extent of which you have had – you have experienced areas outside the great Swedish cities that are completely uncontrollable to the Swedish police. So there are areas where the police have to be many to dry in, where ambulances don't dare go in without police protection, and where there are quite wild conditions, which are also shown on the NRK, but which we now got in-depth knowledge of. Can the representative, Tajik, guarantee that if the Workers' Party were once again to be able to control Norwegian asylum and immigration policy, the same mistake that the Swedish Social Democracy has made over many years should not be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1560	I can guarantee that the Labour Party has led and will lead a strict and fair asylum and immigration policy in which we have control of the borders, unlike what we see has happened during this government, where a completely lost control of the Storskog border for weeks and did not take the consequence of the feedback received from the Police Master's office up there, which announced that one needed more resources, several administrators to deal with the fact that there were so many across that border in a relatively short period of time. And thirdly, not least, our asylum and immigration policy will also be about those who do not have a basis for suspension to be returned quickly, so that those who actually have a right of withdrawal will get it. Finally, I would like to say that it is decisive that those who are being delayed quickly become integrated, and here I see that the Progress Party has cut off tools that have an effect, among other things. Norwegian reception training, which would have affected their ability to become an active, participating part of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1567	The working party talks a lot about equalizing social differences, and I'm glad. Then we also have to have a school that aims to balance social differences, but not the school succeeds well enough today. But we know what works. We know that more teachers are important for students' learning, and that it is especially important for the younger students, for students who are professionally weak, for students with a foreign background and for children of parents with a low socio-economic status. That is why the Christian People's Party has a clear priority in school policy. We want more teachers in the lowest classes and a national standard for teacher density. The Labour Party has also begun to talk about a resource standard in school, but the Labour Party also talks a lot about school food and a whole day school with several hours and longer school days – two reforms that will cost billions of dollars separately. Then my question is: what is the main priority of the Workers' Party in school policy? What's most important; are there several hours, or are there more teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1574	I thank the representative Tyvand for the question and not least for the common commitment we have for a good school policy. One of our most important priorities is to top up the team around the youngest students, i.e. to have early efforts. Because we know that the faster one manages to catch up with elephants who struggle, the easier it will be for them to get the help they need, and to avoid them experiencing adversity later in the school run or risk falling off in the school run. This means prioritizing resources in that direction, ensuring more teachers around the youngest students and ensuring better special education and resources around the youngest students. It's one of the most powerful things in the education cycle. The representative of Tyvand is quite right in saying that we too, for example: I would like school food, but I can reassure the representative that that effort will lie within the health budget and not within the school budget. So it will be possible to prioritize what is needed in the knowledge field, also in cooperation with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1581	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1588	When the red-green government came to the table in 2005, the situation was quite another eight years later, at the government change in 2013. There were long health cows, and those in line had to wait a long time for treatment. There was no treatment capacity, but as the Workers' Party would not use the capacity or new solutions, the system was put in front of the patient. There were low ambitions and medium results for Norwegian school. Too many students left school without being able to read and write properly — without the basic knowledge to cope with further education and working life. It is poor comfort when the Workers' Party says that they regret that they left the Swedish Ministry of Knowledge to lead them. At the same time, the unemployment rate was rising, and all – perhaps except if you had a view from red-green government offices – so that the Norwegian economy had become very, almost scary, depending on the high oil price. Long-term health cows, too little school learning and too little new business life outside of oil – these are just a few examples showing the need for new ideas and better solutions. The thirst for new policies was therefore great when the Right and Advance Party took over the government. The dramatic fall in oil prices has reinforced the need for a responsible economic policy, for growth-promoting policies and public sector reforms. Combating unemployment took place with targeted measures, building projects and transport investments and with measures to contribute to migration: research and innovation, industrial research, climate research, growth-promoting tax havens – and record-keeping on transport. Now there are signs of improvement in the economy, and September was the fourth month in a row where Nav reported fewer unemployed. Combating unemployment is, of course, important for the individual unemployed and her family, but it is also important to ensure a strong health care system, to ensure a good school and to be able to spend more on research and transport. It is the sum of our joint work effort that determines how much money we can afford in this room for welfare services, for drug users, for cancer patients, schoolchildren, young children's parents and nursing elderly people. It is for these people that we do right to employ more wise heads and warm hands, such as nurses, health professionals, health sisters, teachers or policemen. However, in order to strengthen these important welfare tasks, more jobs are also required to provide revenue for the State budget. It is not the politicians who create jobs in the private sector, although the Labour Party occasionally likes to present it as if we can adopt jobs. Our job is to facilitate growth in new and existing private enterprises. But then it has to be easier to create new jobs. That's why we're implementing 52 simplifications that save business for 6 billion. kr per year. Norwegian ownership needs to be strengthened, and that is why the wealth tax must be reduced, because Norwegians who invest in Norway have worse conditions than non-residents who invest in Norway. That's why it's right that the total tax burden goes down. The last Norwegian business life needs now is the Workers' Party's tax bill of 26 or 33 billion. kr. We have good news of what it is – from the Workers' Party, at least. Strengthening public welfare depends on a stronger private sector, with more value creation, in order to ensure just more secure well-being. It also requires that we do the public sector tasks better. That's why we introduce free treatment choices into the healthcare system, first for patients who are struggling with addiction and mental health. The Labour Party will liquidate this right. The right ensures better treatment for cancer patients and for drug and psychiatry patients through package pathways that provide predictability and safety for the patient. This too, the Workers' Party says no to and will wind up. At all: where the Right in Government strengthens patient rights, provides more treatment and gets the queues down, the Workers' Party is most concerned with weakening patient rights, refusing the option and refusing to use free capacity. The working party still puts the system in front of the patient. It is to ensure the well-being of individuals and society that the Right in Government strengthens the knowledge effort. We improve teacher training. Record-breaking teachers are now getting the knowledge they wanted. We strengthen the knowledge effort – both in breadth, in basic, and in top, in research and higher education. Historically, the Labour Party has a tendency to embrace the Right School Policy, at least by publicity. However, if they were once again to plan to give away the Minister of Knowledge to SV, there is a quick end to the character requirements of teacher training and attendance requirements for students, and less attention is paid to learning in school. And that's to provide security for the welfare of the particularly vulnerable people, the ones who depend most on the community's help. We want to build better welfare municipalities through the municipal reform. Many municipalities lack basic competence and have a very vulnerable offer to those in need of child protection assistance, psychological assistance and others, and in this area too, we experience that the Workers' Party is alerting reversals. The local reform must be stopped. But then at the same time, you say that together with the Centerpartie in the government, you have to create a new municipal reform. In any case, the future co-operation partner of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, does not sound that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1617	Today we have both read and heard a number of right-wing politicians who regret the Workers' Party's desire to strengthen the local economy, among others. to introduce one hour of physical activity at school. Reasons are given that it becomes too expensive. Today, there were also estimates showing that the country's 50 richest has received one billion dollars in tax cuts from the Right, an average of 20 million. kr each. So that means 1 billion. kr to the 0,001 pst. richest in the country. It's all right, while 100 million. kr – a tenth – to a stepping-up plan to put in place an hour’s physical activity, i.e. it is completely unheard of. Is it so that the right is opposed to physical activity in school anyway, or they just think it's not important enough to prioritize over 20 million. kr in tax cuts for each of the 50 richest in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1624	The right is neither reinforced municipal economy nor physical activity in primary schools. What we're asking for is answers to the Workers' Party's very many promises that you haven't shown how to pay for. And that's what we're used to in this room, we're used to the political change of words – especially from the Workers' Party – that we get the answer that if you have billions of promises, billions of promises, you can also show how to finance it. We ask: How much does the tax bill to Norwegian business become for all the promises that the Workers' Party has launched, both in the budget – they are numerically fixed in the past – and in other promises that we know the Workers' Party has? Is it such that the Workers' Party believes that Norwegian industry needs new billions of bills in the form of increased taxes on Norwegian jobs and Norwegian owners? If that's the answer, it's an honest response from the Workers' Party. We think that is a bad answer in these times. We believe it is important that Norwegian owners should not be treated worse than foreign owners, and I had hoped that the Workers' Party could come after and agree with us on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1631	Even though the media's search lights have changed, we know that every day there is a struggle for life and death in the Mediterranean. According to Redd Barna, so far this year two children have drowned every day – so far this year almost 600 children, as refugees from war, persecution and extreme poverty. Although Norway has had a low asylum arrival so far in 2016, which is not due to government policy, but closed borders downwards in Europe, we know that there are thousands of refugees coming to Europe. I was at Sicilia on a field visit there and saw how Italy and Europe accepted refugees. The refugees are coming, but the problem is that they stop in Italy and in Greece and do not move on. I have just returned from the OSCE meeting, PA, in Skopje and I am disappointed that for many countries in Europe it is more important to close borders than to take greater responsibility for the refugee crisis in Europe. Does the representative Jensen of the Right believe that Norway is contributing enough, that Norway should not assume more responsibility than we have done, or does he see that Norway can contribute more?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1638	Firstly, I would like to say that Norway has contributed a great deal, both in the neighbourhoods, in view of the refugees who have come to Norway, and in terms of picking up quota refugees and assisting both in the Mediterranean and in the Syrian neighbourhoods and in other conflict-affected areas. I think this hall and this house should be proud of and be familiar with. It is certainly always possible to do more, and it is certainly always possible to set up our efforts and help in different ways, and I am not in doubt that Norway will carry out its obligations internationally. What we know is that Europe has a major challenge with this relocalisation mechanism – it is simply not able to place refugees. I agree that there is a concern that we see in many other countries, that you simply say no to almost any refugee. I'm sorry about that. I have also been to the Siem Pilot at Sicilia and visited the crew there twice and saw the conditions closely, and can also confirm that Norwegian forces are doing a great job there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1645	The representative made a visit to the Municipal Reform and told what he thought the Centre Party and the Workers' Party will do. What I can say is that the Central Party and the Workers' Party must at least have respect both for the municipalities that have agreed to merge and for those who have said no to merge. We're not going to fight impossible battles where the statesmen are going to give professional advice that cracks in every direction. We're not going to stand on the Storting's pulpit today, and we're not going to answer if you're going to use coercion or not. The representative Jensen and I both come from Trøndelag, and one of them is now going to merge the states to create a stronger region, among other things. to defy the Oslo power. Then my question is: how does the representative Jensen see the fact that Investinor, who was established in Trondheim in 2008, now has a manager who has a place of work in Oslo? How does Jensen feel if the government were to hire a head of the Labour Inspectorate in Trondheim, which has a place of work in Oslo? And if he doesn't think it's quite good, what will Right in Trondheim and Jensen do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1652	Thank you for the question, and let me answer the last first. As Trondelags representative and Trondheim's representative, there is no doubt that I argue for moving both government functions and management functions to Trondheim and ensuring that they are there. I will continue to argue for that, just as I did before, under the red-green government, when the two environmental units were merged into what is today's Environment Directorate, and you really couldn't decide from the red-green side whether the director of the new Environment Directorate was going to live in Trondheim or not. It turned out that there was a formal office in Trondheim, but no claim for residence in Trondheim. So here I think that Marit Arnstad and I have a common cause initially in arguing for the region, but we can also argue for other regions and other regions separately. Otherwise, I register that Marit Arnstad said this weekend to Trønder-Avisa that with the Central Party and the Workers' Party in government, there will be absolutely no new municipal reform – ‘whatsoever’ – and I have to say that is a little different from what we hear from the Workers' Party, which says that the municipal reform should continue. So it's a little bit unclear what the alternative is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1661	It says in the nostalgic language: ‘Our Norwegian model is coming out into tougher waters in the future.’ It has done so after the Progress Party and the Right came into government – with a safer working life for people, billions to stone rich and cut to the most difficult in the country. I repeat my question: this census is chemically free of concern about international economic crime, social dumping, black work, hundreds of billions of people who could have rocked well-being, who could have secured us the zero-emission society, and who could have meant massive tax relief to ordinary people. Why is the Right blind to this and sets up a kind of contrast between having enough teachers in school and having a tax-free policy for the richest, as if it were to solve one of the welfare-state challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1671	I wonder if what the representative, Andersen, is not really excited about, is that the speech of the throne is free of SV policy and SV rhetoric, and that is probably how it will be. This government and this vast majority are taking international responsibility, we are taking responsibility for social dumping, we are taking responsibility for climate, but in terms of fiscal policy, and the fact that we have experienced an increase in unemployment in parts of Norway, and the fact that the Norwegian economy is facing major transition challenges with a view to creating new jobs, new growth in private business, which can finance the Community tasks that we are probably both concerned with, we have said that the solution is not to impose new billions of taxes on Norwegian business. Then we need to do more to facilitate the creation of new jobs and the creation of more value in the entire Norwegian economy, and that is done by investing in research and education, transport and growth-promoting tax incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1678	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1684	The community reform has a good part in focus today, and I think it is good. It is an important reform to create good welfare municipalities for the future. The king said yesterday: ‘Tax reform, community reform, trade reform and digitisation are examples of reforms aimed at increasing productivity and releasing resources for welfare services’. It's positive. This means that the money released through these reforms can go from administration to providing better services or reducing taxes. The King went on to say -- a very good quote: ‘Everything does not remain the same if we fail to do something.’ I hope you remember that quote. It is no surprise to me that the Central Party is opposed to the reform, and that they treat almost everything that happened in 1965, as sacred, which is not to be changed by anyone. What I think is even a little bit more special, is that the Labour Party, like the largest party, has been so unclear when it comes to the community reform. We must think that the Labour Party in the 1990s took the initiative, through the then State Council Gunnar Berge, into a municipal reform. It is strange that the Labour Party saw 25 years ago, the need to make changes, is no longer present today, because the need is greater today than it was 25 years ago, and it will be even greater in 25 years than it is today. I registered that Gahr Støre said to the class struggle: ‘But a voluntary line may also be supported by incentives and financial incentives to find good solutions.’ What he's actually talking about when he says he's against our reform is the same thing as we've said about this reform, that it's a voluntary reform, with the possibility that the Storting could happen in exceptional circumstances. We have arranged for a good deal of carrots in this reform, both a single approach, the great and important possibility of maintaining the 2016 level of the scheme for 20 years, with the closing down of the last 5 years, in addition to the fact that the Storting has strengthened the schemes with a new regional focus and resources for infrastructure development. This means that a number of good carrots have been consulted, precisely in order to achieve the reform that Gahr Støre says is a voluntary reform supported by good incentives and economic growth. I hope that the Workers' Party can decide at some point whether they are in favour of a local reform or not, and that they can determine whether they are in favour of what they are doing, namely that in exceptional cases, the Storting may happen through, so that we can get a different type of municipality from what we had in 1965. In the debates that we have outside this house, I am often told that I repeat a claim that the Workers' Party agreed that the statesmen would make a recommendation. So the Labour Party, outside the house, says that it won't be more correct that one repeats that claim many times enough. Therefore, I found out that in order for it to become more correct, I had to go back to the protocol and see what the Storting actually decided. What was adopted last year, June 16, was this phrase: ‘The government is asking the syta for the county councillors to make their recommendation on the municipal structure in the county after the municipalities have taken their decisions by 1 July 2016 at the latest.’ The right-hand side that the Labour Party voted against in Stortinget, but goes into the Minutes, sees 31 of 31 workers' party representatives who voted on 16 June actually voted in favour. So there are five parties in the Storting that have asked the statesmen to do the job they have now done, which they also get strong criticism from the Labour Party that they have done. I had hoped that the Workers' Party could now tell them what they've been doing, and also give the Members the support that they have come with an important professional advice that Stortinget will take with them in the further process of the municipal reform. Local reform has led to a lot of positive results. All municipalities in Norway have assessed their own situation and have thoroughly addressed the challenge. More has happened in three years than has happened in the 50 years before. In addition, there are more than 1 million Nordics who live in a municipality that will be new and that will be bigger and deliver better services in the future. So there's every reason to say that this municipal reform has had a lot to do, and that one has achieved a lot of results. I hope that the debate now, after the statesmen have delivered their vote, may also be that local leadership and local initiative can flourish. One does not just have to wait for the Storting to speak, one can actually sit in the driver's seat and not in the back seat and take local leadership until New Year's. So I want to encourage the municipalities to take up their recommendations and look at the leadership in the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1726	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1731	I do not reject the idea that changing the municipal structure in some places might be a good idea, but I thought I would spend my time doing something that can be done fine without any change in structure. It is that the government's proposal sent to the hearing, that municipalities that plan to build new places in the care of the elderly or rebuild the places that are so worn out by old mugs and rot over many years of poor maintenance, will also receive support in the future. This is one of many suggestions that the Progress Party spoke very differently about when they were in opposition, than what they are doing now, after three years in government. Not only should the tolls disappear if the Progress Party won the election; the elderly care should also be given a strong boost. Unfortunately, the representative of Njåstad's own old party chief, Carl I. Hagen, has had to characterize a part of the status of the elderly after three years with the Progress Party in government as completely hopeless. Can the representative, Mr Njåstad, confirm that this proposal is now being put in the drawer and that he will support the Workers' Party's proposal that support be given to both sides for the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1738	As far as I have registered, the Minister of Health has already said that a transitional regime should be in place so that municipalities can receive further support for rehabilitation, even if the need is to create new places. And when it comes to rehabilitation, it is the municipalities – in addition to still receiving support for it – that can take over the solid increases that we have made sure that the local economy has received every year. Even if the red-green parties warn that a new government would mean narrow-mindedness for the local economy, we now see, after three out of four budgets and with the signals in the municipal bill for the fourth, that the local economy has been strengthened on the contrary, and that there is more money left after one has taken the demographic and pension costs for the municipalities, which means that there is also room for strengthening the elderly care. Then I have to use my last 15 seconds to say that it is a pity that workers' party-driven municipalities say no to healthy resources from the state of care for the elderly, and also that several municipalities, among them Oslo and Bergen, choose to cancel contracts with private operators who have provided good services, because ideology is more important than the quality of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1745	I'll come back to the last one. But back to what was the main question: it is right that the Minister of Health has now announced that a few more years should be given a transitional arrangement, but the municipalities do not need a transitional arrangement; they need firmness, governance and a real tool to expand both new places and reconstructed places. In fact, I assume that the Progress Party here in Stortinget remembers itself, as they do in the respect of the tobacco industry in the case of tobacco wrappings, to go against their own government on a proposal that should only be put in the drawer. It was not the red-green municipalities alone that said no to this bureaucratic trial project to the government about state care for the elderly; it was a large number of the people of the Progress Party, including rapporteurs – and the old party leader Carl I. Hagen. I just think that the Progress Party must learn that when one comes with such juicy election vows as that the state is going to take over the entire funding of the care of the elderly, one cannot come back with a bureaucratic trial project under the direction of the Health Directorate and believe that the local politicians are going to take the wave for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1753	Now I thought the Labour Party was going to take a long way when they say that it's not just the people who say no. The Labour Party controls – and has the chairman in – more than 200 municipalities and sits with the vice-president in a number of municipalities. So the Labour Party spokespersons can't complain about poor local economy in the future when they say no to fresh funds set aside in the state budget for the government financing of care for the elderly. And that system isn't very bureaucratic; it's quite simple. One extracts four entries based on KOSTRA, and one adds it to a real need, based on the needs of the elderly. So it's a very simple system, which will mean more money, because there's a lot of fresh money in the government budget of the municipalities that are trying.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1757	I'm glad some municipalities are in luck. And there won't be good advertising for the workers' party leaders who said no, when they see that those who are involved in the experiment actually get a better care for the elderly than the others. I actually thought that all local politicians should think more of the quality of care for the elderly than on principle, and of who has an idea of a state change, and has an initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1760	The Christian People's Party and the Left have increased the apprentice's grant in several stages in budgetary cooperation and in the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, a decisive tool against youth unemployment. In addition, the apprenticeship allowance is lower than the public contribution to secondary education. We believe that in professional subjects learning is in practice as important as the theory on the school bench. Does the Progress Party agree with that ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1767	Apprentices are very important. That's why, as the questioner says, the government parties, in association with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have been able to focus on this and strengthen it, precisely because it is important for young people to try their way into working life by taking the course of education – in addition to what is at school – in a learning enterprise. That's why we hear it very much and are very concerned that the county councils are making sure that we have enough apprenticeship places, and that we are making enough money to make us happy with the apprenticeship policy. It's important anyway, but it's especially important at the time we're at, that a secure well-developed workforce through apprenticeship policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1774	When you hear some articles in the neighborhood, you get the impression that the whole municipal reform is about to become the complete chaos. Firstly, it seems that the government has decided that one should ignore all the local processes that have been carried out in a good and thorough way. Over 200 municipalities have had a referendum. A number of municipalities have had hearings and other things. One has spent a lot of time and effort on it. Do you want to completely ignore the image passed through the local processes? Njåstad says it's important that someone now follow professional advice from statesmen. Yes, what professional advice is that? After all, the professional advice cracks to every edge, depending on which part of the country you're talking about. So says Njåstad at the end – and then I wondered if I heard correctly – that municipalities that have now made their decisions may have to think about and perhaps make new decisions. Then the chaos is complete. Are they really going to start using new millions on consultants, investigations, case trials and so on because the government can't respect the decisions that have already been made and are going to try to restart the process over and over again?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1781	I don't think there's much chaos to track when it's about the municipal reform. We are implementing the reform as we said in 2014 – it is based on local initiatives, on obtaining a recommendation from the county councillors, and on the fact that the Stortinge should have the last word before summer 2017. So there is no change in that process. The only change that has been made is that the Council of State has said that the municipalities can use the time up to the new year to make new assessments, based on the fact that the neighbour may have made a decision that has affected the municipality, or that the county has made a professional input that is natural for the local government to assess. I'm not asking the municipalities to spend millions of dollars in consulting, but I'm asking them to take their advice seriously and make a personal assessment of whether the county councillor had a good point or not. It is natural that the municipalities listen to the local authorities, who know the municipality sector well, and who are in good contact with and have an overview of what is happening in the different municipalities in the county. That's why we have a completely different view of the role of the statesmen here than what the Central Party has. We thought it was important what the statesmen... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1788	That's it. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1796	I'm a rich lady – not so much on money, but I have a taste for wealth because I've had four great kids who are adults today. Norway is named one of the best countries to give birth year after year, while we see the birth rate falling every year. It's worrying, and there's a lot of reasons for that, and some reasons are easier to do than others. There is a deep injustice in the Norwegian system that it is economically unfavorable to have children early in life. Today, as a society, we insist that childbirth should take place at the age of 30 to 40, rather than at the age of 20. That's also what fertility clinic scientist Anne Eskild said. It's 'on collision course with biology', she says. She points out that the parental pension scheme is in conflict with the fertility of women, by the fact that one must first earn full pot, which good adult women must do in the workplace. We have to put it behind us before we can get money. It is more difficult for young women and students. Although overall these women will contribute the same amount in society and participate equally in the future in employment, a woman who is not related to employment before she gives birth will receive nothing in grants other than one-off social benefits. It is unfair in a life-cycle perspective that a woman who gives birth at one point in life receives so much less in support than one who gives birth at another time in life. A woman may not have to wait to have a child because the studies have not been completed, or because the job does not allow for this. It's not society that's going to tell a woman that it's the wrong time. We also know that pregnant women who receive only a modest one-off benefit are much more likely to discontinue pregnancy. A study shows that half of those who had an abortion did not have a paycheck and thus did not have the right to a birth grant. This only applies to 10 pst. by women who give birth. This is a clear indication that economic security plays a major role in the choice we are taking with us to have children. The one-off benefit paid to pregnant women between work and studies needs to be increased considerably. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has had a positive impact on increasing the one-off benefit somewhat over the last few years' state budget, but we're far from achieving goals, as the system has dusted down for years. One-off support — the most serious injustice in our family policy — must be corrected. This period Christian People's Party has been able to increase this amount from NOK 35 263 in 2013 to NOK 46 000 in 2016. However, the Christian People's Party believes, seriously speaking, that the one-time support must be increased to a minimum of 2 G's for all. In addition to an offensive increase, it must be linked to the G scheme, precisely in such a way that it can be adjusted in line with wage and price increases. The Christian People's Party is surprised that there is a lack of initiative and will from other parties to get sufficient support in place for young pregnant women. It is a political responsibility to correct the obvious imbalances that exist between the aid schemes today. It needs to be made possible for women to have the kids they want earlier than today. Then it's economic security that's important. Young women need to get a better start on their motherhood than they do today. An offensive increase in the lump-sum benefit will be absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1815	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1820	The Christian People's Party has a commendable commitment to family policy. Hareide said in his speech earlier today that one of the most important things we can do is to make sure that the family has time and space, and that the welfare arrangements are universal. The Labour Party fully agrees. But the fact is that today's government has attacked all of this. More part-time, more overtime and temporary jobs give families less time and space and make future planning difficult, including: the possibility of making and caring for children. The changes in kindergarten prices and the proposal to test the needs of schemes weaken the community, and the government’s tax policy increases the differences – between people with normal incomes and the rich, and between women and men. In the debate today, we have also been confirmed by the representatives of the Right that there is a contradiction between tax cuts and welfare. Does the representative think it is right to spend so much money on tax cuts, which benefit the rich to a large extent, rather than strengthening the welfare community and reducing the differences between people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1827	The Christian People's Party is responsible for a family policy where freedom of choice is central, where time together for mother, father and young people should be possible, that it should be the premises of families that apply, and not just the labour market. At the same time, I want to say that when I was nine years old, my father lost my job. I remember very well what it was like at home when we discussed whether we could afford to be part of things, or whether I was going to get new clothes. Small kids also get it with them if there's no work and income in a family that guarantees their entire lives. We believe that there should be room for work at the same time that family life should have arrangements that allow it to live and be in contact with its children over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1832	I fully agree with the representative in this, and I think she describes very well what kind of dilemma individual families can be in the middle of. This is precisely why the fight against unemployment is one of the most important things we can do, rather than prioritizing tax cuts to the richest. That is why it is important that we have a working life that protects the family and gives time and space for the family to plan a good future. And that's exactly why it's important that we have good welfare systems that are universal, to which everyone can access. But this is being attacked by today's government. Bit by bit, you pick away well-functioning, good arrangements – schemes to which everyone is guaranteed access. It is interesting to challenge the Christian People's Party whether to continue to defend such a development, or to seek cooperation with parties that will expand the welfare arrangements of the small children's families, and that will help us also have a population of high fertility in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1839	The Christian People's Party is a Christian Democratic Center party that is now working internally on what choices to make. Then family policy becomes also an important choice for the Christian People's Party. That process is to take the Christian People's Party first internally, and then we'll tell who we're going to cooperate with. But we have the pleasure of being able to cooperate on both sides on important questions. Then it's also saying that the red-green side has to show that they actually believe that working life and family policy have to be reconciled in a better way than what they did in the eight years they put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1846	All the matters that the representative of Bollestad now raised, she can have the opportunity to vote in favour of when we are dealing with the budget, because they are proposals that we have in our budget. So that's where we agree. As far as family policy is concerned, we have never had such a familyless government as we have now, which splits people like refugees from war, and wants to refuse people to be with their kids for years. So that's where I think the Christian People's Party can also find a more suitable partner than the government parties. One of the things I wanted to address is about those who work in care, for example. in the care of the elderly – because I understand that the Christian People’s Party is concerned about it – where the government is very concerned about privatising and postponing tenders. Some of the result is that the women who work in the care receive a lower pension. Is it so that the Christian People's Party is more concerned with ensuring a good tone with the Advancement Party and the Right in this field than to ensure that the ladies who do this important job get a pension it is possible to live off when they have worn themselves out in a heavy and important profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1857	The Christian People's Party is concerned that the public has a special responsibility, a primary responsibility, for Norwegian elderly care. The Christian People's Party is also critical of commercialising the care of the elderly, where there is no room for good arrangements for the staff working there, because we believe that good staff arrangements do something about the service you actually provide. At the same time, the Christian People's Party is concerned that there are many good non-profit actors who have been providing good care for the elderly for years and who are also struggling with pension schemes because they have been loyal to the state and have made demands for employment and public pension schemes, and are currently struggling with good tenders. So the Christian People's Party agrees with SV that it is a problem that one actually does not have good enough pension schemes in commercial actors' care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1864	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1869	The centre party is busy securing and creating Norwegian jobs throughout the country. There is nothing of its own making – it is the cost of the business environment and a willingness to pursue a policy of securing Norwegian jobs. Today's political plural seems unfortunately to have a lack of understanding for this. In areas by region, berry trees are demolished. Here are some examples: First, state ownership: the central party believes that state ownership is important in securing national ownership. The government is setting itself up in large Norwegian companies. Entra and Telenor are examples of companies that are going under the hammer. The Flytoget and Kongsberg Group are also on the sales list for the plural. The foundation is difficult to get. Now we see that the Right Prep new hall and in the program process have made suggestions to get rid of parts of Statkraft. Another example is ownership of land and forests. The centre party believes that good ownership laws are necessary to secure Norwegian ownership of forests and soil. The government and the support parties continue to liberalise the concession laws for soil and forest. This law certainly has a local and scattered ownership. Without any credible foundation, other than ideological flocculation, the plural parties have warned of the liberalisation of concession laws. The Christian People's Party and the Left claim that there are small changes. The problem is that the suggestions they have made can be compared to creating a hole in a balloon. It plays a small role whether the hole is small or large. The consequences are the same, and in the long run it can open up for increased foreign ownership of Norwegian forests and land. A third example is the fight against social dumping. The centre party believes that Norwegian workers should compete on equal terms with others. To secure Norwegian workspaces, a battle must be waged against social dumping. The government says they're against social dumping, but they do the opposite many times. The liberalisation of foreign regulations contributed to increased pressure on Norwegian pilots and flight crews. At sea, the government does not have the will to secure Norwegian wages and working conditions in Norwegian waters. The privatisation of the railway is another type against safe Norwegian jobs. First, society invests billions to improve infrastructure. So when this is in place, Chinese train companies have to come and foam the flute. The centre party does not want Norway to be a branch country. We want strong Norwegian players in all industries. One then needs to pursue an active and targeted industrial policy – not a passive and neutral industrial policy. The centre party is also critical of the explosive bureaucracy that we see under this government. The government's own performance project, the Board of Governors, is about to become a flop. It is not the Rules Council's fault, but the government, which does not take into account the recordings from their own performance projects. The national perspective is absent from the industrial policy of this government. This is where the Centre Party wants to change. In the south and west, there is a demanding situation in the business world. We have discussed a great deal of the package of measures put forward last year. There are strong words about the package, and it is not possible to grasp how big he is, and how he is used. It's a compilation of small and large different projects. It's too weak. I believe that the government must take on the model that was used when a package of measures was presented in 2009. Then my advice to the government will be that one of the future action packages will ensure that they are developed in the form of political crafts, rather than as a result of work in the PR departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1888	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1894	There was a lot to agree with Pollestad's articles. It's nice to follow the representative in social media, and I could see on his Facebook page here during the day that a journalist had made a mistake about which party the representative belonged to – the Workers' Party – not the Center Party. It shows that we agree with a lot, and the representative might as well have represented the Labour Party in this article. But I'm going to ask about Statskog. Last week, it was known that during the last six years, State forest has sold nearly 400000 targets and that in the autumn, 15 additional properties will be sold, totaling 73 000 covers. We supported the decision on arronding sales in 2011, but believe it is now time to slow down. It is important that natural resources belong to the people, that hunting, fishing and outdoors are at the hands of the people. So does Pollestad agree with the Workers' Party that the so-called arrondissement sale must now be stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1901	Let me start with what I agree with, that it is important to secure the community's ownership of Statskog. When it comes to the arrondissement hall, it's probably not a big secret that there's a small difference between the Workers' Party and the Center Party's attitude to it. Work party wants to stop now. Our attitude has been that as long as we are sure that the property sold ends in private local hands, or that local authorities buy them up, we see no reason to slow down the sale until the planned sale is completed. But the decisive thing is that one largely secures the ownership of Statskog, and that Statskog is given the opportunity to further develop forest properties and natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1906	Last week the representative Pollestad said no to increase diesel and petrol taxes. The opinion came after the government had put forward proposals to increase the diesel tax by 35 cents and the petrol tax by 15 cents, while reducing tolls in the districts, increasing the commuting deduction and lowering the annual fee, totaling reductions in the fees by 900 mil. kr. It's a little hard to understand what the Senter Party wants to do with the green shift, because in its alternative budget for 2016, the Center Party increased the fees by 29 cents per litre for petrol and 20 cents per litre for diesel, respectively. Before the summer, the representative asked the Arnstad government to increase the fees. Now Pollestad says no to increased charges. So does Navarsete, while Lundtigen says yes. So the centre party is on collision courses both internally, with the environment and with the districts on this issue. My question is, can the Center Party explain to us what the party is adding to the ‘green tax change’?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1911	A minimum requirement for any climate action is that it must be effective. It's expecting the Center Party. We did that when we discussed the airline charges last year. This is what we will do when we are discussing the diesel tax this year. So it's pretty obvious that you call it a bet when you reverse some of the pendulum cuts. And it's pretty obvious that one cuts a few hundred million tolls at the same time as one has made 40 billion. kr in new tolls. When it applies to the proposal in our alternative budget, if one reads it carefully, it's a zero sum game where we just move the tax burden from that part of the fuel that's biodiesel to the fossil diesel. So what we proposed last year wouldn't have any special significance for the pump price. It probably wouldn't have the big climate effect either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1920	Following the acquisition of the Ministry of Agriculture by the Progress Party, farmers have experienced a significant increase in income. The freedom of production of farmers is strengthened, and we have provided a more profitable and competitive forest industry. In addition, there was a double reduction in the number of agricultural holdings in the Centre Party as under the Advance Party, according to the SSB figures. On 25 July, Mr Pollestad of the Nations said that he did not support the agricultural policy of the government, that is, the policy which has improved the development of Norwegian agriculture. Why is the Centre countering proposals that will contribute to increasing investment and profitability in the agricultural industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1927	I am very pleased that the Progress Party has abandoned its primary agricultural policy and is no longer talking about many, many billions in cuts. When we raise our criticism, it is because we believe that the growth in income that it has raised in agriculture in recent years has been too weak. We want a policy to close the income gap between farmers and other groups. So it's true that for some factors, evolution has pointed the right way, for others, she has pointed the wrong way. The government itself claims that where there is a wrong path, it is going the right way, e.g. on the degradation of food soil, which is now beginning to rise. But the government still claims it's going down. I do not expect the representative Ørsal Johansen to agree on the central party's policy. However, that we have far greater ambitions for Norwegian agriculture and food production than the government, there should never be any doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1938	On several occasions, one of the most consonant has said very important things in the fisheries policy, and during the notification of the marine food industry, it was a corollary that said that there should be no change in the quota system until we have had a full review, the so-called Eidesen selection, which we are waiting for now. Then we had a briefing case just before summer -- urgent, if you think, President -- where we said exactly the same thing: don't make big changes until you get back to the Edesen selection. In the meantime, the Minister for Fisheries is running on, contrary to the decisions and recommendations of Stortinget's co-coordinators, through a note, with the liberalisation of Norwegian fishing. Now we have no more control. Prices go in the weather, and it costs more to buy an allowance than to buy a villa on the outside of Senja. Quota movements occur at record speed only in my state. 28 quotas have expired in the last year from Troms and Finnmark. The question is: will the centre party support its freezing proposal that we have submitted to the Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1943	It was not so much to object to the question that was asked. We have been together with SV and a number of people at Stortinget in these cases, and I have every reason to believe that we can also support such a proposal. Because it's our starting point that we should wait until we can see things in context. The centre party has also been critical of Per Sandberg's bit-by-bit liberalisation without concrete goals and direction of what is happening. I'm not going to give binding guarantees on that right now, but I'm going to say that it's very likely that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1948	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1953	When we look into the glass sphere during the last decade of the debate, it is easy to find a good spot for the country of origin, for the Norwegian industry, for new and safe jobs. The world economy will grow about 50 pst. the next 15 years. The same years will be determined by the world at the Paris goal, a temperature increase of less than 2 degrees. Green values are heavier and heavier drivers in the markets, and Norway can not only profit from such a development, but must be a heavy player to influence development and contribute to the common closure of the world by resolving climate problems. We have a business with a sense of innovation, ability and ability to overcome few things, and for the business community, it's not new to decent change, green growth, robotics and sharing economies. The industry is far too far off and knows better than anyone that the answer to the oil price fall, the scant order books, the layoffs and the layoffs are not primarily creative change or fancy sharing apps, but industrial policy, value creation and social building. The supplier industry on the base is on track into other markets, climate-friendly technology, renewable energy. The paradox is that the fall in oil prices has also made it harder for them to drive technology development with green signs. In other words, policies in the field are more important than ever. We know that testing centres and pilot plants for technology development and scaling are a bottleneck. South Africa is an affordable example. The plans in my home state, at Stord, about a restructured maritime test and innovation center are another exciting initiative in this way. For this reason, it is nice to note, based on managed budget leaks, that the government in the draft government budget – after quite heavy pressure from the Left in the revised negotiations this summer – has now invested money into the new test centre programme for the SIVA, the Katapult programme. Traditional power-consuming industry has long shown roads and reduced its own emissions by 40-50 pst. Perhaps the most familiar new project to escalate development is Hydro Karmøy. Not quite as well-known, but at least equally exciting is what happens in Tyssedal, TiZir, a fairy tale that not only represents a new era for the industrial city of Odda and Hardanger, but underlines that the Norwegian process industry is a central part of the solution. New production line and technology, including: based on ‘home-spice’ hydrogen, which reduces emissions by about 90 pst, is unlikely to be fun. In this way, I must say in retrospect that we are very pleased that the Left Mountain CO 2 compensation mechanism in the first budgetary negotiations in this period, in the autumn of 2013. Secure framework conditions over time are an assumption that owners and investors are willing to invest in the billions class, as is currently the case, and as is necessary. We have energy companies throughout the country, which are also major pro-active social actors, as well as activities that are only becoming more important and important. Will we, we all have the means to be a great energy nation even in the renewable age, between 2050 and 2060. The tradition, strength and potential of the maritime industry is high and the potential to be realised, e.g. in the aquaculture sector, it is an assumption that together with the industry, we will solve the problems of bearer power, whether it relates to lice, escape or access to omega-3-rich feed. So it is nice to note that the algae pilot in Mongstad, whom we agreed would receive 6 million. kr in the budget last year, shall now be opened in the autumn. Producing Omega 3 rich feed using CO 2 prisoners at the testing centre in Mongstad has real potential. Together with agriculture, the fishing industry is crucial in a circular bioeconomy. This is how I could have continued, e.g. Travel life, another core and growing industry, where we have a political responsibility, not least, to secure the industry's heavy market activities abroad, and with the financial industry, a broad and diverse industry, from small savings banks to heavily internationally sought and exposed players, an industry that should finance not only all the exciting things that are happening now, but also what is going to happen in the green growth field. And if it's in one area the civil plural has really made a difference, it's on the industrial and technological development front. The left has been a heavy driver, and I can promise that we will use both the forthcoming budget negotiations and the big year well to strengthen our efforts further. It stimulates Norwegian business, business owners, entrepreneurs and all those who add, who take a great personal risk of creating values for others, the community, new and depending on everything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1980	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1986	The representative Breivik is an intelligent Westerner with interesting considerations it's worth listening to. I don't feel that Breivik is among those who are most keen on these billions in tax cuts to those who are already good at it. Nevertheless, at a time of 139 000 unemployed, many of them along the same coast as both Breivik and I have strong connections. It must be bad for the representative to admit that if these tax cuts had been dropped for only three days, we would have enough money to build a ferry in the West. The question is simple: will the Left now give priority to measures to tackle unemployment over these costly and inefficient tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1993	It is really very easy to answer the representative Holen Bjørdal: All the tax cuts that the Left has entered into this period, and that we of course put our whole heart behind, have two main objectives: one is to contribute to the active use of the market in order to make it cheaper and easier to make climate-friendly choices in everyday life. We know that people and businesses want to, and then it's a political responsibility to facilitate it. The second is the active use of the tax system to make it easier for all those who are willing to take a high personal risk of creating the jobs that we all depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e1998	Thanks for the answer. The representative talks a lot about the climate in his article. I want to drill it a little bit more, given that the government will now increase the prices of petrol and diesel fuels, but among other things. will cut both the toll and the annual fee – contrary to the intention of a green tax change, because it promotes driving. This proposal is presented by the Progress Party most as an ultimatum. Then it is interesting, with the Paris agreement and climate commitments, or in the back of the head, to the right: is this the offensive charging policy left saw the lead, and can the representative Breivik be involved in supporting a green shift with such a clear bismach of exhaust?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2011	The left has a green tax shift in a completely different size than the small tab of a budgetary leakage that we have now seen – a green tax shift in an alternative budget of a total of 12 billion–13 billion. kr, which ends with the majority of the people left with a tax bill of NOK 2000 – NOK 3000. And to what is the undertone of the question from the representative Holen Bjørdal: When I was interviewed by the NRK about this, I got the question: Now the government has made absolute demands before they enter the negotiations – does the Left join the negotiations with absolute demands? No, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2018	One word was missing in the intervention of the representative, and it was ‘profit’. If there is no strong profitability improvement for the industries based on renewable natural resources, it will not be much of that. The last thing we need right now is a number of aspirations and statements that you have to have a green shift, without going to what is at the heart of a capitalist economy: improving profitability. Then you have to look at the framework conditions that are, and what is the role of the state. If you do not get the results you want, the framework conditions need to be changed so that you get profitability. We have some tools: investment aid, environmental technology, Investinor, Innovation Norway – this works poorly. Will the Left, along with the Centre Party, take the initiative, in the forthcoming budget, to change these arrangements, both in terms of how they operate and in terms of ensuring profitability to a completely different extent, in order to make the green shift in practice, so that private business managers know what they have to do with?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2025	The answer to that is of course yes, and it is quite interesting that it is the representative Lundteg – who is also the representative of the previous government, who had pure plurality – who is asking for pay. Some of the first things we did in this ageing period were just to contribute to a renewed profitability in the production of biofuels. A new market for Norwegian forest owners and Norwegian farmers is being created by removing the agricultural tax on biofuels introduced by the red-green multi-annual government, in which case Norwegian forest industry and Norwegian biofuel industry are waiting for four years, and one is now risking a loss of competitiveness in relation to e.g. Finnish industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2030	If the representative of Breivik had followed closely, he would have known that the undersigned said the same thing as now. So it's consistent with what we're talking about, and it's consistent with profitability. There are many people who are said to be talking about a green shift, not least by the Left, without one defining the content of it. I am therefore very pleased that there is now becoming a discussion about the content of it, and that profitability is required. This means that a sailor has to go from a weak economy and a weak profitability linked to all the industries we're talking about here, whether it's the cod, the thymotium or the spruce, which is my way of saying it. Then it's interesting to hear what the Left will now do in its role related to the current government parties in order to make a powerful change in the profitability of, for example, the three products, which are symbols of the sea, the earth and the forest, in addition to the hydropower, on which the representative Breivik was involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2035	I have no doubt that the representative Lundteg has been consistent in what he says, but then it is also appropriate to ask if why Lundteg did not get an impact in the plural constellation he was part of. After all, even if one of the aspects of the opening depends on what the voters perceive, and so on. – not rhetoric, but results that move society forward. And I can promise Lundtigen and the rest of the Storting that the Left will, of course, continue in the same path that we have made now, and contribute heavily to the improvement of the profitability framework for these industries, among other things. by removing the user charge for biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2040	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2045	«Our Norwegian model is coming forward in tougher waters», we could hear the King say yesterday, and yesterday's speeches drew up some challenges that are being shared, but where it will be crucial whether the climate crisis, the need for well-being and the need for work meet with right-hand or left-hand solutions. For the truth, the most dangerous cuttings in the sea of the Norwegian model are chiseled out by the government itself. The basic principle of well-being is work, and the basic principle of the Norwegian model is an organised working life. Now we see a serious situation with a very large number of unemployed people and more and more with a loose link to work through temporaryity and various forms of unemployment. It is a result of policies and policies that are not pursued. The result is that business neutrality and passiveness are put ahead of an active industrial policy in which state resources and muscles were to be used to keep the wheels moving. This is a result of a weakened work environment law where more people have been given temporary work, but no more in work. And that is a result of a lack of ability and willingness to address the situation of the many who live by the grace of the employer, in order to live on their wage work. We know from research and experience that when people have a loose connection to the world of work, people organize less, and without a high degree of organization, the conditions of power in the world of work are shifted. It is a policy for tougher waters for the Norwegian model. In addition to fiscal policies to increase the number of those who already have, this is a policy for increasing disparities. SV fights for a warmer society with less differences. Our policy works – we proved that when we were in government, and we saw that for the first time in several decades the differences went down. That's why we're fighting for a working life where people are going to have a full job and a regular job. We are fighting for a working life where people not only have both legs in their working life but also have security in their backs, because security is essential for a red and fair transition to a green shift. Large differences are married to a society – small differences give good communities to live in. It gives more trust, more equality, less crime and better public health. That is why I am deeply concerned – deeply concerned about the employment gap, the gender reversal and the growth of differences. Today, 92,000 children live in persistent poverty, 139 000 people are out of work, and today, the Class Struggle notes that the 50 richest on average have received 20 million. kr each in tax bills by the government. It's disparate policies that are biased, and it's biased. The fight against the diversity of societies must be guided by a fair tax policy. It must be guided by the fact that people have work or are guaranteed income, and it must be carried with a well-being that is able to balance differences. The right-hand side often refers to the welfare state as a safety network. SV sees the welfare state as a prerequisite for living free and independent lives and for reducing differences. Freedom lies within the community – not only because Community solutions are an effective and fair way of organising society, but also because those who are outside the labour market for various reasons have to be guaranteed income. That is why it is intended to see all those who have had a tougher life through the under-reform, through cuts in the child supplement and through the fact that the unemployed no longer receive holiday pay. The years that have gone by show that the election to next year will determine whether the waters in which the Norwegian model is to navigate will be hit by storm, with the danger of shipwreck, or whether it will get new winds in its sails.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2063	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2069	Thanks to the representative for a good post on the Norwegian model. I want to ask a question about something that was hardly mentioned in a word in the throne, namely equality. That it was not mentioned may not be so strange, because we have a government that has not taken any new initiatives in gender equality policy. They submitted an equal opportunities message, with no content. Fortunately, they were overrun by an overall opposition. We're used to the fact that equality policy stands still when the right parties rule, the new thing is that it doesn't stand still, it goes backwards. Kirsti Bergstø spoke about the Norwegian model, and equality is the most beautiful with the Norwegian model. It has enabled young boys and girls today to grow up and live freer lives than those who lived before them. It has had more to say for the economy than all the oil combined. But the biggest threat to equality is the belief that we're where we're going. We now have four lost years with this government. That is why my question is to Kirsti Bergstø: What new initiative does she think a new majority should take after the elections to next year in order for us to have a more equal Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2074	Thanks for the line. I think we first have to reverse the damage that has happened. I am thinking in particular of the damage done by the Working Environment Act, because we know that temporary work affects women in particular. That was also the reason why not only a collective trade union movement, but also the gender equality agency were very clear about how harmful temporaryity would be in the workplace. When we reverse it, we have to make sure that full and permanent jobs become the case in the workplace. It's about women not being eaten with 17.3 pst. position. There are women who carry much of the welfare with their hands and skills, and then we have to show that there should be proper working conditions in the areas where women work. So we know that well-being is also equal opportunities policy. If kindergartens disappear or become more expensive, or care for the elderly becomes worse, women have to take care of them. So well-being and work are the tasks we have to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2081	The representative Bergstø and I come from the same state. I was there last week and visited a company that made concrete elements. There I met a number of women in different positions, ranging from carpenters to those who mixed concrete, and those who sat and calculated. I asked why they found this company attractive. The company has used the TAX FUNN, which has been given tax incentives to develop and increase competitiveness. It would have led to safer jobs. Security was important, said the women. A company that developed and created safe jobs also attracted women. This government has introduced apprenticeship quotas on fishing boats, and we have increased the quota for high school to facilitate good nutrition. Learning quotas also make girls more attractive on board a fishing boat, as they come with their own quota. In fact, when you look at practical industrial policies, it's also equal opportunities policy. My question to the representative is: Which of the two examples is the largest sea in the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2090	The two examples are not the largest in the sea. The insecurity that lies in the working world, all those who are out of work, and the inability and willingness to find solutions to it, I call cutting in the sea – in addition to being able to provoke large parts of the organized workforce. I think it is very good that the representative from the Right says that security is important, and also that apprentices are important. I also want to add that you need raw materials on the boats that you are going to have apprentices on. I would like to hear other notes when SV suggested that the Telemark model should be used as a basis for public procurement, because it would have just secured apprentices in contracts. It would have ensured professionalism in the disciplines that are threatened, it would have ensured that people had regular work, and that that is what we competed for in Norwegian business, not to subdue each other just at price, but to bet on seriousness and professionalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2097	So we agree that safe jobs can also be a good equality measure. An active business that itself takes on the task of developing and increasing its competitiveness can also be an equal opportunities measure. I believe that we can conclude that we agree. From this government, we have put a lot of effort into transport, so that we can also get back and forth in our country, get the business out of simple transport routes, shorter roads and cheaper roads to the market and increase competitiveness. It also provides safer jobs, which means that women find out that maybe you can choose untraditionally, not just traditional. The last big grip we've taken, one that we have a reform of continuing education for teachers who are historically large. While there were 38 teachers who were able to continue training under the red-green, we have 213 teachers on course this year. I think that might also be a sign of equality – that our young people get such a good school that they can get the opportunities they need. Does the representative agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2106	We definitely share the goal of a good school, and that several of the young people in our state are going to complete high school. This requires further training for teachers. But if the representative Bakke-Jensen is deeply concerned about women's workplaces in the future, I hope he takes a fight in his own party about the cut in regional development funds, because it's clear that although it's important to bet on transportation, we can't live off the roads alone, we have to have work, and we have to have workers running on the roads. The cut in the economic development that would have gone to the county means fewer jobs in our county and our region. In addition, I would like to challenge the basis of competition on which we are going to have our business. Should it be in the interest of seriousness, should it be to promote apprentices, should it be in permanent employment, or should it be in social dumping and unprofessional conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2113	The Programme Committees in the Left and the Right have both presented proposals to manage the funds for the families of children. Several want to replace child benefit with free kindergarten and SFO as well as targeted measures to support low-income families. In the Christian People's Party we are surprised that the Left and Right think in these paths, because the child's fear is free money for the families of children, while the free kindergarten and the SFO are earmarked funds. The Christian People's Party believes that universal child-responsiveness must continue. Families with children have higher spending than others, and it is important that public spending on child welfare contributes to a certain strengthening of the economy during this period. But what does SV think? EN is, among other things: busy of the whole day school and talking about it. Does SV think it's a good idea to change child welfare into free kindergarten and SFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2122	I'm glad that, at another important point, we share vision with the Christian People's Party, to lift the child's fear. SV wants to increase child welfare for everyone, but especially for those who have more kids, and for those who are alone, because we know that it's the groups that are most likely to end up in poverty. We know that child welfare is one of the single benefits that most contribute to the reconciliation of differences and will bring more kids out of poverty. I agree that it has to be a broad universal system, which should affect everyone. Then we are not involved in the artificial contrast between raising child welfare as a good order and having other good welfare arrangements, such as school and kindergarten. In my home municipality, Nesseby, we have free kindergartens for all kids. We are proud of that, we see good results of further education, and it should be a call for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2129	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2134	The languages of the throne are the place to raise your eyes and discuss the major challenges facing Norway. How do we combat unemployment and create work for all? How do we create safe jobs with pay and working conditions that people can live with? How do we give more children and young people the knowledge they will need in the future? And how do we start people giving elderly care and health care to people who need it? We are now looking at a Right Party government after three years that does not have the answer to these big questions. This is now the third plenary debate in which unemployment is a major and serious issue. 139 000 people go free instead of contributing to value creation – 139 000 people who could contribute to industry, trade, service, health, care and school. Hardest hit is young people, young people who go into adult life without a steady job to go to. In 2013, the Right Party and the Advance Party were to end the outreach. Today, more people are out of the labour market than ever. Participation in the labour market is falling sharply. The number of young people outside both work and studies is record high, and the number of unskilled young people is growing rapidly. In 2014, the government’s response was that unemployment was due to the fall in oil prices and that government policy was soon to work. In the 2015 treaty debate, the government said that unemployment was due to the fall in oil prices and that the government's policy would work soon. And this year we hear again that unemployment is the result of the oil price drop, and that the government's policy will work soon. But this third debate is held at a time when the number of unemployed in Norway is greater than has ever been in the whole history of Norway. The question is: how long will the government be responsible for the oil price fall and how long will 139 000 unemployed be waiting for a policy that works? Some of us in 2013 had a slight suspicion that the new ideas and new solutions were really going to become old Right and Advance Party policies: tax cuts to the richest, welfare cuts to the poorest, privatisation, sales of Norwegian Community values and greater differences between people. Unfortunately, we got right. The government's answer to unemployment is 20 billion. kr in tax cuts, mostly for those who have the most of them. A record growth in oil money has been used to make the richest richer, hoping that they will use some of their extra wealth to create more jobs. It didn't work last year, it didn't work in the past year, it hasn't worked the 30-40 years right side all over the Western world has tried this recipe, trickle-down economics. Instead, growth in Norway has stopped. Industrial workplaces disappear, large and small enterprises leave and cancel, the safety of getting a job disappears, and job security is weakened. The conversion was greater than expected, says Erna Solberg. But the conversion hasn't gotten any bigger. It's unemployment that's gotten a lot bigger. The conversion is that people lose a job, and then they get another job, or the job you're in is being renewed. The problem now is that people lose their jobs, but they don't get a new one. When unemployment in the West is almost doubled, it is not because the rate of change is faster than before. That's because the conversion has almost stopped. The question is, could we do something different? For it is not the Right Party and the Advance Party that have created the fall in the oil price, but it is those who have been responsible for implementing the policy that should help us through this. We could have chosen another way. The Labour Party wants a completely different policy for increased industrial development, more jobs and full employment: We should have put in place much more powerful instruments for industrial conversion, the transfer of knowledge and technology from the oil industry to other sectors, good law on permitting and support for green conversion. We should have strengthened the possibility that the unemployed could gain new knowledge, qualify for the jobs that exist – what they need to get a new job. We should have strengthened investment in the welfare tasks that we know the country needs: the construction of nursing homes, the refurbishment of schools, care, school and health. We should have used our capital to invest in Norwegian industrial development and corner stone companies instead of selling Community values. And we should strengthen, not weaken, the Norwegian model: the cooperation between employees, employers and the public. The government's policy now works vigorously against unemployment," said Erna Solberg at Højre's national meeting in spring. Now, six months later, we have more unemployed people than ever. The country needs a new direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2179	The representative Giske is right that we have to get unemployment down, and that we have to avoid it biting at a very high level, as it did when the Workers' Party ran in the 1990s. The representative Geske was also in an area that he and his party are often inside, that of accusing the government of creating greater inequality in all areas. He then obviously disregards the fact that there were 15,000 more poor children under the red-green eight years of power. My question is, is it the government's work to reduce the waiting time for drug and psychiatry treatment from 61 days to 37 days he thinks about when he says that we create inequality, or is it that poor children's families get cheaper kindergarten? Or is there a grant scheme for families with poor advice that allows their children to participate in leisure activities? Or is it perhaps the school with better teachers, early efforts and basic skills – one of the most important contributions to social mobility that the policy can provide to our children – the representative thinks about?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2186	I think it's very significant that in the last centenary debate in this big period, the right-wing debate continues to talk about the eight red-green years. At some point, you have to start presenting the policy for which you yourself have been responsible for three years, and perhaps you will have to be responsible for one more year. How do you solve unemployment? Why are you using 20 billion? What about tax cuts instead of school, care for the elderly and health? And how much employment growth does this create? That doesn't mean that everything the government does is wrong. Fortunately, some of the hundreds of billions of public budgets are spent on sensible things. We disagreed on increasing the kindergarten price for everyone to give cheaper kindergarten prices to someone, but that is to a degree a direction choice. But 139 000 unemployed people have snapped. It's not like we have to avoid having the vacancy snapped, as the representative says – it's right here. And the reality picture drawn at the Right National Meeting may be credible to the delegates who are there, that the policy now works powerfully, but those who experience unsafe jobs experience a completely different reality than those who are in the Hall at the Right National Meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2191	Thank you for the reply from the representative Giske. I mostly talked about our actions that we have implemented, and I could have mentioned more than 60 other measures in the strategy against child poverty. But enough about it. The representative Giske also took up taxes, and it is interesting to note the Workers' Party's model to create more jobs. So it's significantly increasing the tax bill for the private business. What's also interesting is that the representative Giske, on several occasions as Minister of Industry, like former LO leader Roar Flåthen and Depositary Representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, called for the removal of the wealth tax that he is now attacking us to reduce. Then my question becomes: what has changed since the representative Giske so obviously disagrees with Minister Giske on the problem of wealth tax for the ability to create new jobs in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2200	The representative Giske very much agrees with Minister of Industry Giske. I want to add that under that Minister of Industry and the previous one, there were 355,000 more jobs in Norway, two thirds in the private sector, one third in the public sector. Now it's almost not employment growth. What I said at the time was not to remove the property tax. What I said was that we have to have equal property formation for different property properties, because it's wrong that people invest, for example. in commercial real estate because it is more tax-effective. We have therefore been involved in a broad corporate tax package – a settlement – that I believe the representative knows where we have got this. And it's important that we invest in production, but we haven't gone in to eliminate the property tax. That would have led to great skepticism, even more skepticism than what we've seen so far, and that's why the Right Line is giving tens of millions to the richest and 50 ears and crown pieces to the common people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2207	In June, the Stortinget passed a law on public acquisitions, and during its examination, it was discussed whether we should set a target for the proportion of non-profit actors in different sectors and whether we would like to welcome more non-profit actors. The Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, notes that it should be an objective that the non-profit sector should increase in the long term and refer to the Central Party's proposal to set a target of 25 pst in the non-profit sector. by the whole care sector. Now this proposal is to be examined in the autumn, and my question to the representative Giske is: will the Workers' Party support this proposal and set a target of 25 pst. by the care sector shall be driven by non-profit actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2214	We are not familiar with any figures or decisions in this matter in our group, but the objective that the non-profit sector can contribute significantly, not only in the care and health sector, but also in knowledge, public information, etc. We are in complete agreement. We're both from movements that have had this activity. The movement of workers provided health education for women, child training, training courses for the unemployed and many other things, which at the time were not covered by public services. And we actually see that when the commercial offer gets too big, when the pressure gets too strong, it's often the ideals that get skewed. Those are the ones that fall out, and that can't be on the same carousel as those that have the bottom line as the only overall measure, that governs their activity. So I'm absolutely sure that we and the Christian People's Party can find good solutions together on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2219	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2224	The right is aimed at securing the Norwegian welfare society, ensuring a society with high trust, small differences, freedom and opportunities for all. The right is not to change Norway, but the policy must reflect that Norway has changed. Yesterday's solutions do not respond to future challenges. We need to facilitate new, safe jobs in the private sector and give the country more and stronger legs to stand on. Therefore, research, innovation, digitisation and entrepreneurial activity will be even more important in the years to come. We need to lower the threshold into working life and make it easier to start our own business, and we need to facilitate Norwegian owners to invest in jobs in Norway. The last Norwegian company now needs new large tax bills. Our main resource is knowledge and competence. If we're to give all people the opportunity to succeed and realize their talents, we have to start with a good school, good teachers and good basic skills. It is the key to social cohesion in society and the entrance ticket to a life in which as much as possible can stand on their own feet and take care of themselves and their families. But it is also an important prerequisite for us as a society to be adaptable in meeting changes here at home and in the world around us, and there are big changes. From 2005 to 2013, the oil price was on average nearly $100 the barrel with a peak of $144. It was probably, as Jens Stoltenberg writes in his autobiography, an exception in history. Now the oil price has fallen below $50. We need to get more and stronger legs to stand on, and we need to exploit the amazing natural resources we have in Norway to create values and green jobs for the country. We're a technology nation. The oil and gas industry is our lunar landing – from simple wells on shallow water to horizontal drilling and underwater factories in demanding waters. Our technology and expertise must be transferred and exploited in several sectors. We don't win the future by copying others, we have to find our own way. But we have a great starting point. As always, hardworking and competent people deserve the honor. Our job as politicians is to facilitate sustainable growth and new jobs that can ensure the well-being of the future. If we are to succeed, we must also invest in Norway's competitiveness. There has been a formidable shift in road and rail investment in recent years. The budgets have been sessioned by nearly 50 pst. since 2013. The maturities are going down, the maintenance is going up. Trains come more often with over 18,000 more take-offs than when we joined, and punctuality is better than before. Now there is also competition to provide passengers with the best possible offer. The road transport company Nye Veier AS, which is to build more than 500 km by four-field road, shall build faster, more efficient and more coherent and rationally than before. Planning time is reduced, new development methods are tested and results are good so far. The sum of all this is faster construction of road and rail projects, safer and more efficient transport, better environment and lower transport costs. Norway needs that. The public sector is a major and important player in Norway who also needs to change with new times. It is important that new employees provide better public services — more hands in care, more policemen in the streets, more help for those who need the most help in society. But at the same time, we need to get more out of the resources we use. The public sector also needs to focus on innovation, digitisation and the further development of services. The socio-economic benefits of digitisation are great, but most importantly, it can provide better services to people and businesses. Only in business-oriented simplifications have we implemented measures that save businesses 6 billion per year. kr. A society should be measured by how we take care of those who need our common help most. Here, too, we've been thinking about how we can achieve better results. The waiting times for drug and psychiatry treatment are reduced from 61 days in 2013 to 37 days now. We're not on target, but we're on our way. Rights to user-led personal assistant, lower childcare rates for those with the lowest income, suggestions that parents on social assistance should not be less paid if their youth work alongside school, grant schemes for families with poor finances, so that they can travel on vacation or get access to leisure equipment – these are examples of government prioritising welfare measures that mean far too many in everyday life. Not everyone in this room appreciates change. As a society, we can try to hold back, or we can embrace the future and the exciting new opportunities that it gives us. Anyone who has tried to hold back, shut out, protect themselves against, or stand in the way of the future has failed – not at once, but over time. We are making absolutely necessary changes to ensure the well-being of all of us because the situation warrants it and the time in many areas is over-ripe after many years of reforming before us. The Labour Party and the Left have launched some good and some new policy today. The problem is that what is new is not good, and what is good is not new. The ability to criticise government policy seems far more well-developed than the ability to provide answers that show that the opposition understands the time we live in and has solutions that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2248	The working party is concerned about things that work, and about starting with it – and ending with things that don't work. On questions from the representative Tajik earlier today, the parliamentary leader of the Right said that he thinks it is nothing less than fantastic that the 50 richest people in this country receive tax cuts equivalent to the 2,000 ordinary workers serving together in a year. It's 'absolutely fabulous'. He said that now they are given the opportunity to create jobs. The problem is that that possibility is just as lonely as a glass of water at the Logen Theatre during the game opening. Could the representative Astrup give one single example of a job created as a direct result of the 50 richest having received 20 million. Who's in treasure chests?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2258	I believe that it is very good that there are private owners who want to create jobs in this country, and we need to facilitate them to do so. I fully agree with Parliamentary leader Trond Helleland. The last business that needs now is the Workers' Party's tax solution, which is a huge bill of billions that can turn what is now beginning to look like a cautious rise – after very difficult times – to decline. There is a reason why former LO leader Roar Flöthen called for a change in the property tax and made it less harmful. There is a reason why Lisbeth Berg-Hansen has called for the removal of the tax on working capital, in line with the agreement between bourgeois parties. And that's a reason why Trond Giske, when he was Minister of Economic Affairs, called for the removal of the property tax and its replacement – quite rightly by another tax, which has some other negative effects. Even if he denied it instead, it says to read on VG Nett. But there's a reason for that, and that's that it's harmful. It inhibits value creation. It hampers the ability to create new jobs. And is that what we need in the time we're in, is to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2265	All policies adapted to the best of children are usually best for all of us and wise for the future. For the Christian People's Party, this is a basic attitude, which must also include children in a worthy and good way, because they are in Norway without being blamed. In the last year, according to the view of the Christian People's Party, the government has come to grips with the child's best-principle in several matters. I am thinking of the strongly criticised practice of child imprisonment at Trandum, even if it has happened in court. I am thinking of increasing the use of timeliness for lone minor asylum seekers, even though a person admits that it may affect the mental health of children, and I am thinking about the weakening of children's rights in the run-up to the government's proposal for a new care centre law. Is this a pattern that value-based Right Will and may be familiar with further?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2272	I believe that the best of children is an incredibly important principle, on which we must base all our policies. Children are the future, also those who are on the run, also those who are not supposed to be here, but who are going home again. Having a humane, just treatment of children on the run and upholding the principle of the best of children in all respects is important. So there's some cases where it's hard to avoid doing the grip that we wouldn't otherwise see fit. And of course, we have to try to keep that to a minimum. But there's no sign of any new pattern. The Christian People's Party – and I think I speak for all the bourgeois parties – shares here our approach to this important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2279	The Transport Committee was just traveling in Troms and Finnmark, and for understandable reasons, the chairman of the Committee was not present. But one of the things we discovered when we had a great round of meetings down the coast of Finnmark towards Troms was that there were very poor mobile and broadband opportunities. The Hurtigruten is an important institution for tourism as well as being important for people travelling along the coast, and broadband and mobile coverage are important for business throughout the country, it can both simplify, improve profitability and create innovation. But then it's a challenge that there's not good enough offers along our long country in both of these sectors. So my question to Astrup is: Will the Right be involved in ensuring better and equivalent broadband and mobile coverage along the coast of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2284	I fully agree with the representative that good mobile coverage and broadband coverage are a prerequisite for us to have the scattered population we have in Norway, that we can operate throughout the country, that we can create new jobs throughout the country. And it's important that we continue to develop the mobile and broadband networks, primarily on commercial terms. This means that companies have a responsibility to contribute. We have some goals, and we have some tools, but it's at the starting point that the companies are building out, and so it almost has to be. We have quite good coverage in Norway today, but, as the representative says, there are some places where it is not good enough – it has to get better. I am the first to complain that I could not join this country trip, but I had to take into account the best of children, i.e. at home in cardboard – short, but good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2289	The representative of Astrup was clearly inconvenient to the question of the representative of the Tuskedal when we were involved in Norway's obligations under international conventions in relation to children and refugees, and the call for the humanitarian right, as it was before. I'm probably going to be the club now, but it looks like it's just going to be the clamps again. So the representative says that now it is so difficult that you might have to ignore some of this. Yes, then I have to ask the representative of Astrup: is it not that these international conventions, to which Norway and other countries have committed themselves, are there precisely to be able to maintain some principles in difficult situations? On sunny days when everything is easy, it's easy to keep principles about the best of children up. It's when it's hard, we have to follow the principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2296	The representative, Andersen, probably knows that co-representatives can be called anything but slender.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2301	Yes, I fully agree with Andersen's representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2311	First, I want to say it's good to get started again, and I want to take the opportunity to thank good colleagues for good discussions in the session that has gone, and hopefully the session that we are now going into. We often disagree, but it feels good to live in a democracy where we discuss politics in this room before we go and drink coffee – or preferably Pepsi Max – across party colors, as the most natural thing in the world. I am with all my heart concerned that older people who need care and care should have a good offer. I get both sad, tired and quite angry when I read about older people who don't get the help they need, the people who don't get laid when they want, who don't get showered when they want it, and who get food that we politicians at least wouldn't eat in their own meetings. When I hear about mismedication, too low manning, and about cases where elderly nursing people don't get hospitalized even if the need is obvious, then I'm horrified. I am pleased that the Health Policy Spokesman of the Workers' Party, Torgeir Micaelsen, was very clear and honest in his judgment about the red-green efforts of the eight years they managed the care of the elderly. He said exactly the following about the Workers' Party's efforts for those who built the country, as late as this period: ‘The active substances have not been strong enough. We haven't reached the targets we set. And there is too much difference between municipalities in the care of the elderly." I'm not saying everything has been perfect, but luckily it's going in the right direction. On her shift – which lasted eight years – the Workers' Party built only 567 new hospitals. After three years in government, the Progress Party has provided for a sharp increase in grants for nursing homes and places with good luck and care. We have increased the commitments to 2,500 places in both 2014, 2015 and 2016, which is an increase of many hundred places more every year than the 1,750 places the Workers' Party proposed in its budget in 2013. The working party did not build enough sick homes; they allowed older people to live in double rooms against their will. The Progress Party has arranged for a lot more hospitals and has ensured that the elderly who are placed on double rooms against their will do not pay about NOK 30 000 per year until the municipalities clean up. The working party believes that older people should not have a statutory right to care when they need it. On the other hand, the Progress Party has ensured that when needed, the right to a sick home is legalised in the same way that all six-year-olds are entitled to attend school. The Workers' Party does not want the Stortinget and the State to take a greater responsibility for giving all older people a worthwhile offer regardless of the finances of the individual municipalities. The Progress Party has ensured that the State takes a much larger part of the bill when the municipalities build hospitals, and we are running a trial project that will prove that the State has to take the bill for all the elderly who need care and care. But even if we finally got a government that takes the needs of the elderly seriously, we're not quite in the game. We're going to get to the goal, but it takes time to clean up. The Progress Party believes that there is a need for a new reform in the care of the elderly, a reform that looks at users as people and not an order reserve, a reform that allows older people to control their own lives, not a system in which bureaucrats and workers' party people should set up a daily schedule for eating and for sleeping. Such a reform must be based on all good forces, such a reform must be built on fantastic employees who dare to think again, as they have, for example, done at the Mangle Home in Oslo. It is a shame for me that the City Council in Oslo will re-communalise the nursing home that provides good services. The reason for cutting off private offerings in the care of the elderly is that they do it too well. Is that possible? If the Workers' Party, with its ideological skylights, is governed by the Green Party and the Center Party, there will be poor care for the elderly. We see what's happening in Oslo, and we think with horror what will happen if the Workers' Party gets to rule the country again. We saw what happened in the eight years, the lost care for the elderly, when the Workers' Party crashed, and we see what they're doing in Oslo. Can I remind you that the Workers' Party and the Center Party control over two thirds of the country's municipalities – how do we feel? The party of progress wants other roads. The progress party will continue the radical pace increase in the number of new hospitals, we will continue to have legal rights to care for the elderly, we will abolish involuntary double rooms, we will have a quality reform that puts the individual resident in the centre, we will listen to the relatives, we will release all good forces to, both public, ideal and private hospitals. We believe it is right and important that those who are going to work with our older people have a police record. I am happy to discuss care for the elderly every day until the next autumn. The Labour Party has admitted that they have played down in the care of the elderly. When we look at Oslo, unfortunately, they don't seem to have learned from their mistakes either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2337	Hoksrud made an emotional statement that most people, including the elderly, will get better. These are things he has promised before and not kept. Today the news came that the Right's 50 richest uncles have received a tax gift from Siv Jensen of about 20 million. kr each. And they're not quite so rich the uncles have got a little bit of cake from the 20 billion that's cut. Even in 1984, Højre’s court historian Francis Sejersted wrote that Right has always served as a party of interest to the better - minded in society. I think it's still standing by. The party of progress, on the other hand, claims they're for the most people. Now 139,000 people are the most unemployed, and most people have to pay more in tolls, especially in Grenland, where Hoksrud himself is from. Most of the weakest people have been cut off. Those who are commuters have been cut off. Why does the Progress Party fail so badly? Is it so much fun with black cars and government offices that you can't say no to the party for the better?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2346	I am very pleased that you have a government that is able to have several thoughts in your head at once. One can do something to reduce taxes and taxes on business, which means that we have a business that can actually create new jobs. The fact that the Workers' Party does not understand it, you can see, and you can see that in Oslo, how to run the care for the elderly there. The municipalities have never received more money than they do now. It can be seen that many municipalities in which the Progress Party and the Right are governed have good care for the elderly, while in Oslo one has to re-communalise and spend 50 million. SEK to change the name of the buildings, that it should be stated that they are municipal employees, and that private people no longer get jobs there. I think it's wasting money. That money should have been spent on good, decent and safe care of the elderly for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2353	The government has notified changes to the investment grant scheme for nursing homes and day care from 2021, so that municipalities do not receive State grants to renovate and develop existing places if they do not build new ones. This might seem very wrong. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we need to ensure a real expansion of hospitals, but we also depend on developing and renewing existing facilities. It is a political responsibility to ensure tools that enable municipalities to manage their older people in the best possible way. KS points out, among other things: that the changes can actually make dementia homes a loss project for municipalities if this becomes a reality. Does the Progress Party believe that these announced changes are proper medicine for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2360	What is important for the Progress Party is that you actually make sure to build new and get more places. The development seen in the years of red-green rule has been that there have been very few new health homes: 567 in eight years. It shows that we have to do something, and then we have to think differently. Therefore, the Progress Party agrees that we must now make sure to press that we have built new sites. The Council of State has today said something about that he wants to extend that period. Then there are program processes, and it is both in the Christian People's Party and in the Advance Party – among others. on a grant scheme to ensure that part of the sites that need to be rehabilitated today are also rehabilitated. Here I believe you can get to both. Local authorities are concerned that they need to build more and more places, so that we get more sick homes, because we need that now to meet the population growth that comes, especially among the older population. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2369	I want to resume the thread from the last line. I think it is quite obvious that the Progress Party's senior general cannot be quite clear whether they support the conversion in investment grants to municipalities that can be used both to build new sites and to run the rehabilitation of buildings. In the article, the representative talked a lot about abolishing involuntary double-room positions, and he said that if one were to place the elderly in double-rooms, he would give them a fine. But they're going into the Biggest to take away the incentive to rehabilitate and create one. Can the representative of Hoksrud be clear on this: does the party of progress raise the criticism of the proposal to remove the refusal to rehabilitate sick homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2376	This is interesting, because the Center Party was part of the red-green majority for eight years. Then it's especially to see that you were able to build only 567 new hospitals. In 2013, the red-green government proposed 1 750 new places – so you couldn't get it done. In the last six years, there was a big difference between what was actually delivered and what you wanted to deliver, what was the promise. Now, this government has considerably strengthened the grants to build new health homes, to build new places of provision for the lucky day – far beyond what the previous government did. And you see that the result is that the municipalities are now applying to build places. We have committed grants to 2 500 new places in 2014, 2015 and 2016, and that is why the commitment allowance is almost filled by municipalities. It shows that you're going to build a lot more hospitals. That's what we're concerned about, that people who need care and care will get a good and worth offering. That's what this government is doing. It didn't do the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2383	SV believes that every crown we grant to care for the elderly should go to good care. Therefore, we dare to take the fight against welfare professionals who take money out of the care of the elderly – money that could have been used for more employees and better offers for the elderly. The party chooses to stand on the side of those who want to take money out of the care of the elderly. In the future, we need many more to work in care, especially in dementia care, because I guess Hoksrud doesn't think it can be done by welfare technology either. Then we have to recruit many people who are able to stand in the job for a long time. What we know about outsourcing and privatisation is that those women, the heroes of care, are grateful in the form of poorer pensions from the Progress Party and those who want privatisation. Will the representative Hoksrud join me at the hospital home, look at the help nurses in his eyes and say, "You're too much for a living and you're too good for a pension?"
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2390	I'd like to be with the representative Karin Andersen, and I think she might be able to join me at the Mangler family home and see how great an offer you have there. There you have a great restaurant, you have a great pub, the employees large reefs, and you have far lower sick leave than what you have, for example. in the municipality. It's about people enjoying themselves at work. If you're going to have a low level of sick leave, you're going to have to be comfortable at work. Therefore, these private alternatives are a very good addition to the public offer. It's not like everyone working in the private sector has a worse pension scheme. In fact, there may be someone who has better pension schemes than what you have in government, so this is different. I think it's sad that Karin Andersen will throw away 50 million. kr to replace the name of the hospital door, and that it is no longer allowed to be a private operator capable of providing cheaper and better services so that in fact more people can receive care services – because it is to be a ‘municipality’ on the door. The billing of these institutions costs 50 million. kr. I think it is sad that SV will throw so much money out of the window in Oslo and around the country and not dare to let both private and non-profit institutions provide good care and care services to people who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2399	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2405	There's one year left for the big shot. It has been three years since the Right Party and the Advance Party came to power and promised new and better solutions. What are we left with after these three years? There were no new and better solutions. On the contrary, we have got what we fear: old-fashioned right-wing policy, which is unable to solve the challenges our country is facing, a government that neither listens to people nor professionals, a policy that is permeated by a backward-looking thesis that those who have the most from before are stimulated to create even more if they get more, while those who have little from before will create even less. We have a government that increases the differences between cities and countries, between rich and poor and between women and men. The tongue of the throne did not mention equality with one word. As a result, the government is following up past practices. They are not concerned with equality and do nothing for it. On the contrary, this government has put equality in reverse by weakening the gender policy tools that have made Norway one of the world's most equal countries. We have a government that is in disrepute with the people, that does not point forward, but that goes ten steps back in development when, for example, they are. weakens the right of fathers to be at home with their children, by cutting the father's quota, considering having father transfer the entire quota to mother, or which Right now estimates – letting dad go home while mother is at home. The paper commission is one of the most important welfare schemes we have. It ensures that fathers who meet resistance as caregivers get their legitimate share of the time with their children when they are young. It ensures that both women and men can work and have family, and that mother can go back to work quickly. That's why the paper commission is also one of the most popular welfare schemes we have. It is not the case, as the current Minister of Culture Hofstad Helleland and the current Secretary of State Brodtkorb said in the 2013 election campaign, that the red-green paper punishes the children. No, the paper strengthens the children. But with that view, it may not be so strange that the government does as it does – weakens the rights of fathers and puts equality in reverse. It's backwards, and it's unpopular. The working party will move in a different direction. We want to strengthen – not weaken – equality, because it gives people more freedom and real freedom of choice. We want to increase the paper industry, do more towards involuntary part-time, provide more equal work, take the parties seriously, reverse the trend of pay, do more so that girls and boys can more easily choose untraditional education, and we take men's gender equality challenges seriously. We want to combat the disadvantages that boys and girls face because they are boys and girls, earlier, and have more equality in kindergarten and in school. We're not just concerned with the glass roof that many ladies meet on their way up to the top, but we're occupied with the glass walls that very many girls – and boys – live with in our society today, where they're not allowed to participate in the community arenas that we're taking for granted. They're not allowed to participate because someone else, adults, thinks it doesn't fit. And it's really of the most important gender equality challenges we have, the differences that are created when someone gets to participate where others don't get. There are unfair differences that need to be tackled. We now see, one year before the elections, the results of right-wing policy: increasing inequality in the labour market, between poor and rich, between city and country, and between mothers and fathers. The working party wants to move in a different direction. We know that the major challenges are best solved together, and we know that we are stronger together. For equality, too, it is high time for a government change – a new government that takes people's everyday challenges seriously, that comes with solutions that people want, that bring equality Norway on and not in reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2422	I believe that if you are so bold that you make a choice for Stortinget – and we have hopefully had a conscious relationship with that, all of them – you must have a project. There must be a reason why you're here. You have to have some ideas to control by. It's not administration that's our job, it's politics. Sometimes these ideas collide. It's good, it's democracy. But in Norway, we still have a great advantage in our consensus tradition, that we are less of a polarized society than others. We stand together in disagreement and in agreement. We're shoulder to shoulder. Together, we created a unique culture of working life in Norway. Together, the Norwegian welfare state was built. Where cooperation and labour environment laws provide safety and predictability in working life, the welfare State shall provide security and predictability for those outside. This is worth preserving. Maintaining these things must be one of our most important projects. But there are different things that threaten these institutions. Blind belief in the status quo and mediated public expenditure is such a threat. An example of that from our close history is the previous government, which prioritised arming Norway for the change we knew would come, but instead chose to make the left side the best – or to say it that way: the left side is good at – namely to travel around and distribute billions more, and all to everyone. This leads to pleasant wording, but it does not prepare us for conversion. At the same time, they boasted – and they still do, and we have heard it here today – of the number of jobs created under the red-green government. However, they do not tell what LO says, namely that the whole employment growth between 2008 and 2014 went to non-resident labour force. But then we stood there, all of us, in the middle of the oil price drop. Then we can imagine what it's like to be used to being able to support ourselves and their family, and then suddenly feel the uncertainty about their own life situation. That is why this majority has prioritised a large package of measures for the areas affected by the fall in prices. That's why this majority has priority education, research, transport, infrastructure, historical stakes – precisely because we're going to work through that transition, and we know that this is necessary to get it done. Another threat to these institutions is labour crime and social dumping. That is why this government has prioritised a strategy against the crime of working life, developed in cooperation with the social partners. It is important that we cooperate on these issues, because the parties have such an incredibly important task in helping to combat the crime of working life. I heard the representative Gahr Støre say something about that we're not doing anything in the fight against work-life crime. It's about as far from the truth as it's possible to get. A third threat to the institutions is the financial projections in the perspective statement, and we see it from the warnings we read from the Productivity Commission. Well-being must be sustainable for future generations. Then we have to adjust. That's what we've been doing. Think of a situation where you have the biggest administrative reform in a country's history, and then you end up with about the same results as you had before you started the reform. That's the story of Nav. Think of a situation where the number of young people with disabilities increases by almost 50 pst. from 2005 to 2014. It is the Workers' Party's welfare policy heritage in this millennium. That's why we're cleaning up the red-green flaws in the Nav reform. We are entitled to benefits because we know that too many people involuntarily end up as passive social security recipients. We digitize Nav, so Nav can use more resources to help those who are far away from work. We give more trust to Nav employees, more flexibility and freedom for them to help people through the response system in a way that they can see is the best solution. And we clean up the guarantee schemes for young people, so that the youth guarantee should actually be a guarantee and not just a broken promise, as it was under the red-green government. We want to fight the outside world. This, preserving our common working life, preserving the welfare state of the generations to come, is one of our most important projects, and we are willing to deliver the policy needed to achieve it. From the other side, we hear a lot of criticism, but no real alternative policy, other than increased taxes on Norwegian jobs. But that's the result when the only political project you have is to get into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2453	I'm going to get to the representative Heggelund's points right away, because there was a lot to deal with. Let me first say that measured against the very many people across large parts of the world behind, Norway is one of the world's best countries with one of the world's best health services. In meeting the many other struggles, we should all be humble and not draw the contradictions of our country too far. It is precisely against this international backstop that I and several others in the Workers' Party have raised global health issues, which are vaccines for the world's children and fight against dangerous antibiotic resistance – not just talk about it – to return to the international arena if we are led by a new government after the next elections. Although there is a lot of good happening in our country – and I even have to face the fact that I am constantly commending the government for excellent initiatives – there are many things that are not working well enough at all. In the health field, it is a prevention policy that is too weak and too under-coordinated, too many — especially children and young people — get help too late. Therefore, much more of the effort needs to be put in place earlier and closer where people live and work — in municipalities. Many patients and citizens experience a lack of information in response to healthcare. The picture drawn in advance does not match the landscape they meet, and patients, perhaps seriously enough – rightly or wrongly – experience a fundamental concern as to whether our common strong health service is able to take care of people in the face of serious illness, for example. cancer. These are concerns we need to take seriously. Here, too, we are at the heart of today's debate – on this issue and on some other fundamental issues in society: What is the answer to such a challenge? Is it in an enhanced public funded and run health service that we find the answer? Or will it move over on a gradual path – not dramatic, not with revolution every day, but with a little bit more strenuous – competitive outsourcing, a little more market coverage in e.g. health care, is the solution to the anxiety that people feel? The response of the Labour Party is clear: if we are to stop progressing towards a more two-part healthcare service in Norway, we must say no to privatisation and improve public health. Therefore, after the next elections, a Labour Party government will take a firm stand for better coordination and stronger efforts for prevention, especially for children and young people. We want to renew and strengthen public hospitals, so that they are digitised and meet patients in a more modern and consistent way than today. And we want to make sure that everyone gets a good old age – both as a pensioner and towards the final phase of life. We believe that a wide range of measures – from both the current government and the previous government, I will add – have not been powerful enough. It must be stronger on the table. No matter how much we put in health care to make people healthy, it is in society, on the outside of health care, disease is created and disease can be prevented. No other means are more powerful than keeping people in work, creating new jobs and getting more people to work. If I had been a magnificent representative as part of the parliamentary basis of a government, or a member of a government that set itself the goal of reaching the speed of private value creation, only we will get away with our tax cuts and what the Americans call 'Triple-down', no 'Trickle-down economics' – sorry, but I was a little inspired by Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, because she had her own variant of it, but I'm not going to use it here in the Norwegian context – let's kick out some tax cuts, especially for those who have the most of the time, because the theory is that it's going to drip down on us others, so that jobs are created. When the phase after three years is that net growth of private jobs is barely visible on official statistics, and this is measured against the previous government, which had the same track record of 350,000 more jobs, two thirds of them in the private sector, then I would be a little calmer with the rhetoric, muffled self-confident many hacks and thought: what is it I have not understood that makes the results meet this societal challenge as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2472	When I hear the Labour Party in this debate, it strikes me how happy I am, and how lucky we are to have a government with power of action in a demanding time. When I hear the Workers' Party come up with their situation descriptions without providing political answers to the challenges they themselves describe, other than higher taxes and limiting private entries and private solutions to welfare challenges, it does not impress me. And when we hear that the Workers' Party is going to reverse one reform after another from the government without bringing its own alternatives to the societal challenges that the reforms are going to solve, then we realize that a government shift was necessary in 2013, after eight years of reform drying from the red-greens. At a time of more uncertainty in the world and a new security policy situation, the government proposes a historic commitment to defence and security. We are strengthening the police both as a team and with a new and better structure through the near-police reform. This is how we contribute to the security of everyday life. From the time we took up the government offices, security and preparedness have been of the highest priority, and the government has done a lot in this area. The level of preparedness changes as society develops and the threat picture changes, and the government has shown that it has control of this task both for the time being and for the future. The government has systematically followed up the recommendations of the Yard Commission, and so far we can refer to a total of 134 measures for enhanced preparedness and security. The government has largely met the Commission's call for better strategies, responsibilities and prevention and preparedness systems. With the near-police reform, which was adopted last year, we have laid the foundation for a historic commitment to the Norwegian police. We've got bigger districts with more competence and more capacity. We have employed 1,300 more policemen, dedicated considerable resources to digitisation and simplification of the ICT equipment of the police, and lifted the investigation in the police. In addition, we have set up a common emergency network for all emergency situations, so that communication and interaction can take place seamlessly. The PST is significantly strengthened to detect terrorist planning, and the government's ambition is still to strengthen the PST. The police law has been amended so that the defence can assist the police in a critical situation. Joint Counter-Terrorism Centres for the PST and the E service have been developed to improve the sharing of information between our two secret services. The response rate has been extended by 40 pst. We have allowed the police and the PST to use new and modern police methods. In this way, the police will facilitate the prevention and investigation of very serious crime. In the 2017 budget, police districts will be strengthened by 300 million. kr in free money, in addition to SEK 300 million. kr for the employment of newly trained policemen from the Police College. The government has also decided to go to the acquisition of at least two new police helicopters. These are good and important solutions for enhanced preparedness and robust police districts and for a new police force. Prevention is an important part of our preparedness. One thing is to be rusty when an attack has first occurred, but much must be done to prevent any attack. In this context, we have invested a lot of resources in combating radicalisation. Firstly, the government has launched an action plan against radicalisation with 30 concrete actions. In addition, municipalities and criminal services have received increased subsidies to combat radicalisation and violent extremism. The government has shown that it takes responsibility by pursuing a policy that takes real threats seriously and that gives room to take good action quickly. We want a strong total preparedness to secure the state, society and the population. I am proud of what we have done so far for only three years in the government. Security and preparedness have been greatly improved. I note that the Workers' Party criticises the government for making business-friendly tax cuts. That's why it's alarming that the Workers' Party itself folds away from its hidden tax bill of 33 billion. kr, which is 10 billion. DKK in tax increases and up to 24 billion. kr in budgetary under-coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2504	The government continues to signal a strong focus on work, activity and change through the census. It is still noted in parts of the country that a few years ago Norway was hit by a low oil price and a decline in the oil sector. There was little or nothing done to convert Norway as the oil price was significantly higher than today, and I am very pleased that Norway is now managed by a team that is both capable of action and manageable. Monetary and financial policies work, measures and dosages are properly balanced, and Statistical Central Bureau states that there is growing growth in the Norwegian economy. GDP figures show that the oil brake has reached the bottom and that there is growth in mainland investment. Unemployment has been reduced in 14 counties in the last year, and September was fourth in a row with a decrease in the number of unemployed. The goal has not been achieved, there are still difficult times, and there are still many capable and hard-working people looking for new opportunities, but we also see a positive development and a greater optimism in the private sector. Norway shall not be a country from which powerful entrepreneurs escape, but a country from which investors and entrepreneurs flock. Those who succeed in creating jobs for most people are to be hailed and not razed on. The years of the SSB show a record in the number of newly established enterprises both in 2014 and 2015, much higher than in the previous period, and it is particularly gratifying that the last year has been a major growth in the number of new enterprises in many of the Western countries that were hardest hit by the oil price drop. In the long term, there is no doubt that lower tax pressures are the most effective medicine for creating more jobs and more value creation. This concerns, among other things: on lower taxes on employment and lower taxes on the equity of enterprises. It is not possible to exclude that Norway is entirely dependent on investors and entrepreneurs who see opportunities and who are willing to risk their own money to create the jobs of the future. The state cannot buy a future-oriented business, but we can facilitate through favourable tax reductions. The current macroeconomic situation suggests that seemingly innocent proposals for tax increases could have a significant impact on Norwegian jobs. Time is definitely not involved in risky tax policy experiments that could jeopardize all growth. Increased taxes may not lead to growth and increased taxes are a bad idea for both large and small jobs. Our country is long and thinly populated, and therefore road transport is even more important here than in many other countries. For example, this is a case in point. that Norwegian salmon will safely reach the large markets in Europe and that it will be possible to create values throughout the country. I am pleased that the Progress Party in the Government has contributed to the almost doubling of the appropriations for maintenance and renewal in the transport sector and that we have also significantly increased investment. Anyone who has worked in the private sector knows that there is a difference between money for consumption and money for investment, and with the Progress Party in government, a greater share of oil wealth is invested in roads, railways and other transport infrastructure. I have no doubt that good parents want safe schooling for their children. At the top of major investments in road and rail, the Progress Party has had an impact on reducing taxes on safe cars for most people. We have twisted the charges so that emissions and not the engine power are the basis for the one-off fee. Car sales in August this year show that tax cuts on new cars are an effective environmental measure, and the pollution of the new cars that are now being sold is greatly reduced. Norway is thus setting a new record in the sale of low-emission cars, whereas diesel was used in the past. Radical environmentalists should really cheer instead of criticising. The most important thing for the Progress Party is not the reduction in emissions alone, but that we have managed to reduce the tax burden on all those who depend on cars to go to work, deliver children in kindergarten and school and to make their purchases – simply to make everyday life work. Now, in 2016, we no longer have to choose between environmentally friendly small cars on the one hand and safe family cars on the other. We'd better say yes, both of them. Norway will never again be a country where the export industries are hit by poor infrastructure, and Norway will never again be a country where most people cannot afford safe cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2521	It is good that the government, according to the census, will work to ensure a safe and caring growth free from violence and abuse. We are waiting in suspense on the budget presented until Thursday. The Christian People's Party hopes that during the last year of this period the government will show that children, safe growth and family policy are a priority area for them as well. The Christian People's Party went to elections in 2013 to work for a society that's good for the children, because we know that a society that's good for the children is a society that's good for everyone. Since then, we have been working intently to put the children's situation on the agenda, and my party leader, Knut Arild Hareide, showed in many areas where the Christian People's Party has so far had a great impact, not least in relation to the vulnerable children. That's good, but that's not enough. The Christian People's Party is going to continue the fight for the children and for the families, and instead of discussing how support for the families of children can be reduced or governed by the public, we should discuss how we can bring even better relief for the children and families than today. Christian People's Party believes, among other things: that cash support is an important part of a good family policy. Children have different needs, and all families are different. Therefore, it is so important that families can choose the form of care that they think is most suitable for their children. Some one-year-olds are torn in kindergarten, other children like to be a little more at home, and the Christian People's Party wants families to choose for themselves. We need both good kindergartens and cash support, so families feel that they have an freedom of choice. The issue of the Christian People's Party is not to make the most of the cash support. Our desire is to make it possible for each family to choose the daily life that best suits their children and their families. Moreover, cash support does not represent an increase in public expenditure in each State budget. Government spending much more on child care grants than on cash support. A one-year-old receives more than NOK 200000 per nursery place – the cash support is only NOK 6000 per month, i.e. NOK 72 000 per year. Cash support is under pressure. I note that it is also discussed in the parties we work with, but I hope that the result will be that the cash support can continue as the freedom of choice reform it has been for the families of children. Now I look at the Prime Minister and hope that those signals sink into the Right, because I think it would be quite surprising if the Right would deprive the families of the freedom of choice that this has given. Should the freedom of choice of which the Christian People's Party is engaged be real, we must not only provide accurate cash support, then we must also facilitate an ambitious childcare policy. Providing nursery space for all young people who need it, in a high-quality kindergarten, is a priority area for the Christian People's Party. In my view, the government's ambitions on behalf of the kindergartens were difficult to see in the throne speech. They said something about what has been done, but little about how to think further. Most Norwegian kindergartens are of very good quality, with adults doing an amazing job every day. But it is not that everything is perfect in the kindergarten sector, and all kindergarten children do not get as good an offer as they should have. In our view, the standard of manning is the most important element of quality. Some adults in kindergarten are alpha and omega. No children and no adults are doing well in kindergarten when there are too few adults. The most important thing for the quality of nursery services is that there are enough adults in kindergarten. The Christian People's Party has meant this for a long time, and we have believed that it is too late to introduce a standard of manpower in 2020. We could have gotten this long before. In the current year's budget, the Christian People's Party proposed an escalation plan. We proposed in our alternative budget to set off $300 million. kr as a start-up. We did not get that through, but I am very pleased with the impact of the Christian People's Party and the majority of the Stortinget when we received in our treated kindergarten message. Then we asked the government to come back to Stortinget last autumn 2016 with a case in which the government's work on the standard of staffing and with the standard of kindergarten teachers is explained. We hope that the government is ambitious in the kindergarten sector. This is also about early efforts. If we start early at school, it can be too late. I think some drop-out stories from high school actually started in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2548	The start of the last session of this magnification period is a good opportunity to sum up the standing after three years with the Right Party and the Advance Party of Government. There is a period of record unemployment, a policy for increasing differences between people and the sale of Community resources. Before 2013, there was no need for warnings to release the Advance Party into government. I especially remember a politician who, in a chronicle a few years ago, presented a list of ten reasons for shutting down the Progress Party from government cooperation. According to the author, the Progress Party was a party that failed in economic policy. Now the phase shows that the government has increased oil money use more in three years than the total increase over the previous ten years, a phase-in rate that a number of government-reduced samples say is unsustainable. For the first time in 25 years, Norway is in deficit. For the first time in the history of the pension fund, a government has made a withdrawal from the fund to finance welfare for us, but not least for the generations that come after us. The author of the chronicle further writes how the party of progress is a ‘wing party’ and that: ‘Parties with ambitions of government responsibility must demonstrate the ability and willingness to face the overall structure and not to counter it shortly afterwards It is hardly any exaggeration to describe such a wing as unaccountable’. [[...]] It is then easy to let the tanks fly to the bag fee, air passenger fee, refugee settlement, climate issues, social security settlement, nikab and a number of other things where the Progress Party on the Stortinget has stood in plenary and demonstrated against the Advance Party in government. In the chronicle, we can also read that the Party of Advances is a party that «is jeopardizing jobs» and will release the use of oil money «as never before». «At present is actually Fr.p. a batch which is in the front to increase public expenditure and to supply itself even more with the petroleum fund.» Since the government joined, unemployment has increased steadily and remained at the highest level in two decades. The share of the job has not been lower in more than 20 years. While 360 000 new jobs were created with the Stoltenberg II government, where 72 pst. came in the private sector, there are only 25 000 new jobs created so far with today's government, where 76 pst. have entered the public sector. There are almost no private jobs created with today's government. Last year it was said that the oil price drop is the cause, but our policy will work soon. This year it is said that the oil price drop is the cause, but our policy will work soon. The oil price drop is by no means created by the Right and Advance Party, but could have been met in another way, with more direct stimulation of activity and private enterprises rather than large, general tax cuts. The government shift also marked a distinction from a working party-driven period where the growth of the economy was higher each year than that of public consumption, to a Right and Progress Party-driven period where the growth of public consumption has been higher each year than that of the economy – and this despite the Higher Programme formulation to ensure that the growth of public consumption over time is not higher than that of mainland Norway, and the Progress Party's programme formulation that growth in the public sector must be kept below that of private sector growth. In retrospect, we can say that the chronicler has made a pretty good deal of his predictions. In one area, however, there was a bomb: the author lamented the turnaround of the Progress Party in matters of state ownership and industrial policy, where the Progress Party had fought against a number of government sales. Even though we've seen a significant wing and what I'd call amateur ownership in a very important state-owned company like Statkraft, the government has been quite united about wanting to sell our common resources, whether it's about fish, forest, hydropower or infrastructure. The chronicle I quoted from here today was written in 2005. It was signed by a far-sighted government council in spite of cooperation with the Progress Party in the Stortinget so dark to let them into government. She was worried about the consequences. The writer of the chronicle is Erna Solberg. Today she's not as worried. Today she is Prime Minister in Norway, and the Labour Party will do something about this in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2574	Today we have heard a mantra from the Workers' Party that there has been zero net growth of private jobs. Torgeir Micaelsen stood here a little while ago and said, "What have I not understood?" I think the Workers' Party has also understood, but they're trying to find cheap rhetoric. Of course, the reason we're in the biggest crisis in our deciduous largest industry ever, is because of low oil prices. 30000 people employed directly in this industry have lost their jobs and several tens of thousands in the supply industries as well. So you've probably understood, but you're putting a record in cheap rhetoric. I don't think most people buy that. When the Solberg government joined, the government of Stoltenberg had weakened the defence appropriations over several years. Every year since the accession, this government has strengthened the defence budgets, by 9.4 p.m. at the latest. in 2016. Today, there is a concern about security policy in the world. The old balances of power are shifting and under pressure. The Middle East is in a break-up time, and the promising Arab spring has culminated. The fight against the ISIL terrorist organisation has taken on great dimensions, they threaten our security and challenge Western living with a brutality and cynicism that we have not seen before. The tragic and heartbreaking consequences of the Syrian civil war affect the news picture and a whole world. Millions of people are displaced both in their own country and beyond borders, and hundreds of thousands have lost their lives. There is once again uncertainty in the former Eastern bloc. Russia’s annexation of Crimea and instability they contribute to in eastern Ukraine are precursors of the uncertainty that their neighbouring country is now experiencing. Russia continues to act with aggressive propaganda against its neighbouring countries. Not since the Cold War have we experienced a similar insecurity. The answer to this new uncertainty is more international cooperation, more joint solutions and strengthening cooperation with our allies in the EU and NATO. We must face this situation with strong defence, effective preparedness and a stable and predictable foreign and security policy. We do this through closer cooperation in NATO, joint exercises, patrols and deterrence, but also with continued sanctions against Russia to show that such aggressive acts are unacceptable. Defence needs to be strengthened if it is to be relevant to current and future security challenges. Information, preparedness and clear time are now required. Therefore, a commitment to the Defense is now absolutely essential. The government has already strengthened its preparedness and response capacity through a reduction in response time for a number of capacities, including: related to counter-terrorism. With the long-term plan of defence, the government has launched the greatest economic promise for the Defense since it called the war. The long-term plan focuses on strengthening defence capabilities by investing in fighting force and sustainability rather than preserving today’s defence structure. The long-term plan also facilitates the long-term and sustainable development of defence with a real balance between tasks, structure and economy. The government has strengthened the defence framework by 2020 to a level of approximately 7.2 billion. kr in excess of the current level, which for the next 20 years shall cover a further demand of 165 billion. kr. The main actions on the investment side that require political agreement and sustainability over time are the battle-flying operation, but also the renewal of the submarine fleet and the maritime surveillance aircraft. The changes we are now seeing in the LTP are the result of a comprehensive process in the Ministry of Defence under the leadership of Minister of Defence Ine M. Eriksen Soreide. She was also praised by U.S. Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter recently, who had read the whole plan and was “impressed”. Then it seems a little strange when Jonas Gahr Støre as the only point about the defense in his post earlier today criticises that the government is proposing a land power study to shape a modern army. It is alarming from a batch which five years ago stated that ‘the major process of conversion of the defence has been completed. From now on, we will talk more about adjustments» – quote Barth Eide. No, it's not. This is a very demanding time precisely because of the accidents of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2602	Our society is built on trust. Our culture and our economy are based on a high degree of trust. It is fundamental to the development and growth of our country. Trust is actually worth more than oil for our country. It is said that Russia could be 70-80 pst. richer if Russian society had the same level of confidence as Scandinavian. In recent years we have witnessed an increasing distrust of the Western countries, a distrust that has increased here at home under this government. We experience growing distrust between those who govern, and the population, and between the population and those who govern. Bureaucracy is escalating as a result of a lack of trust. We get more directorates and more supervision. Also in the field of education, we experience increasing mistrust from the authorities. Ever since the government took over, they have shown a constant distrust of Norwegian teachers. Everyone agrees that teachers are important and that all teachers should be the best possible. The government must be commended for improving the continuing training system, which the red-green government set in motion, but they did not trust that the teachers would make use of this system without any instructions. The government showed its lack of confidence in the teachers by denying their basic training by giving retroactive effect to the requirement for the number of study credits. There was no longer any confidence in 20 years of school experience. There is also a lack of trust in prospective teachers. The mistletoe comes through a narrower teacher's education and the requirement for the grade 4 in mathematics to study for a teacher. This makes the government, sail if they know that there are not enough students among them with 4 in mathematics who are applying for the teacher's study. The result is that 700 places of study are available. So we're getting fewer teachers graduate in four years. The lack of confidence in the government means that Norway is now losing many high-grade students who could have become brilliant teachers. When the government also intends to promote proposals to raise the profile in Norwegian and English and extend teacher training to five years, we are at risk of a major teaching shortage in this country in the future. It's not just a lack of trust, but it's poor management of the future. Lack of government confidence is continuous in the education sector, and so are students. The centre party now means we're going to try out a national limit of absence, and we agree with the government in that. The majority decided to lift the government's proposal for a 10 pst. limit and give more insight to the individual school. In our opinion, the government has not followed up this imposed from Stortinget. That is why we have today made a proposal for a representative to use more discretion, so that sick students do not run down the medical offices to get a medical report, but that we have to trust the officers and give them the confidence to be able to report whether their own young person is sick or not. We also understand that Norwegian youth need a driving licence. As long as it is allowed to take the note when you are 18, one must expect that students, especially in areas with long distances, will take driving training. The size has a sea level which determines what is mandatory for driving. So we want to give the school owners confidence in deciding whether they want to exempt parts of the driving training, but they like to document it. Lack of trust in school owners, school managers, teachers and students sees one of the most obvious and glaring of the extensive control activities now carried out by the State. Both at home and internationally, lack of trust is demonstrated by extensive government dictates through both test regimes and methods. The PISA tests, which began in the early 2000s, have a background of mistrust for an entire profession in several countries. Teachers in Denmark, Sweden, Estonia, England, the United States, etc. fights for their right to pursue their profession on the basis of their professional training. More and more people are evading the ongoing test regime because in the wake of these international tests and comparisons a strong national test focus has emerged, where the tests have become so important for the dignity of the individual school, teacher and student that the areas in which it is being tested override other important education and competence. The Board of Kuvaas of the Institute for Management and Organisation at BI has written: ‘When management trusts its employees, employees take more responsibility for achieving the organisation’s objectives [[...]] The government doesn't trust the teachers to do the job they're assigned to: prepare the young people for life to come. It has the Center Party, and we've shown it on a case-by-case basis and will show it in the future. In the Common Era, the government points out that well-being depends on high value creation. Yes, but if we're going to increase value creation, we need to have confidence in our most important resource, the people, the labour force. Lack of trust in society may prove to be very precious.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2626	It's now three years since the government joined, and it goes into its fourth year. The situation for Norway has changed significantly. Unemployment has increased significantly, job growth is significantly reduced, climate change measures are absent, and greenhouse gas emissions are increasing. It's just in two areas that are not completely immaterial to our future. In the case of climate, the government has taken a rest position and the year after the Paris Agreement was negotiated. One has to look carefully for government climate initiatives, and the only visible evidence that Stortinget has is that one was given a big message with a recommendation to be included in the EU climate framework, to which the Stortinge joined almost unanimously. In retrospect, it might have been a little stupid, because now it is used as a sleeping cushion and an excuse for not doing anything. That is why the Labour Party promoted 45 climate proposals in February. Many of the proposals were adopted, if not exactly as we wanted, the direction was at least relatively correct. I'm glad. But it's urgent to move on, and then I actually had expectations of the throne. But the speech of the throne was no strong green speech, as the Left-leader Trine Skei Grande claimed. On the contrary, it was quite weak and mentioned only the natural. On Thursday, we will receive an answer on where the government is going to be in the state budget for 2017. We got a little insight last Friday. A net gain for the motorists of close to 1 billion kr may be good, but most experts trace increased greenhouse gas emissions as a direct consequence. It is in stark contrast to the decision of the Stortinget in June that all new cars from 2025 should be based on zero-emission technology. Then the conversion must start now, then it must be easier to make climate-friendly choices and less profitable to emit greenhouse gases. Unfortunately, the government is motivated by the opposite. We're inside something the government calls a conversion period. The oil and gas industry, industry and energy sectors should all be given strong signals and a clear indication of the future direction, but the signals are missing. Unfortunately, the government that should have taken a lead has also taken a rest position there. In total, Norway was expected to have a shift in the amount of money spent on supporting and stimulating business. Instead, this money is spent on those who already have enough. Differences are increasing between rich and poor, between those with jobs, and those without jobs, between cities and countries, between men and women. There are virtually no new jobs being created, and the few coming are going to the public sector. In our government, 360 000 more jobs were created — two thirds in the private sector, 25 000 more in the last three years — three out of four in the public sector. This is the government's responsibility, and it's a result of what the government refers to as conversion. So the consequences are dramatic – 139 000 people without work. It is alarming that those who advocate this as a national crisis give rise to the prime minister's strong commitment to the unemployment discussions. That's where the temperature comes, and that's where the commitment is, when someone mentions this as a crisis, which of course is. There is a crisis in both the number of unemployed and the fact that no new jobs are created. Growth-promoting tax relief does not work at all. Industry and business demand a more active public sector, which, in partnership with industry, can create new opportunities. The good ideas and the many opportunities we have in Norway do not give growth power through tax havens to the few. The many good ideas and the many possibilities have not got more legs to stand on or evolve on, but they have had fewer opportunities. It would have been a much better result if the big money were used to help the good ideas, whether it was focused more on knowledge and knowledge transfer, focused more on new forward-looking technology, focused more on clusters, focused more on cooperation, partnering with industry, contributing with risk-absorption, and in total increased opportunities. 139 000 unemployed are in crisis, and it will remain a crisis. The objectives of the Right and Advance Party are not targeted at the labour market, but they use conversion as a pretext for tax relief, privatisation and centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2639	We went to the elections to further develop Norway as an energy nation, and in the last three years we have also changed the pace of energy and climate policy. We have delivered an energy message to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian renewable energy. We have announced concession rounds that will allow access to new search areas on a Norwegian base for the first time in more than 20 years, and not least we have speeded up the green shift. Often we hear that the land is built on the wealth of oil and our gas, but the hydropower is the support beam on which modern Norway was built. This was also the most important point for the government in the energy message that was presented in our spring. The message from the government was clear: Norwegian renewable energy must also be profitable in the future. The broad bourgeois consensus on the Energy Communication shows that the distance between the parties that make up the majority of the day is not as great as many would like it to be. We agreed on important principles for the governance of Enova. We agreed on emissions targets for the transport sector, simplifications in concession treatment, the winding-up of the electricity certification system and the investments on hydrogen and biofuels. In sum, I therefore believe that the energy message and the treatment of this will remain as an important document from this large-scale period. The climate summit in Paris and the breakthrough in the negotiated agreement have marked the last year. Norway was a driver in this process, and we were also very quick to sign and ratify the agreement. Today's majority have laid the groundwork for climate-friendly development in our budget agreements, which have strengthened Enova, allocated a great deal of historical resources to public transport, focused on green shipping and reinforced efforts to develop full-scale carbon capture and storage. In recent years, the consequences of a dramatic and sustained fall in the oil price have also been felt. This has led our main industry into a deep wave valley and made immediate action necessary for those who have lost their jobs. In particular, many in my home country, Rogaland, have marked this descent on the body. We are now seeing the contours of the worst, and the optimism is returning. I note that the Labour Party is no longer talking about a crisis in the Norwegian economy, as mantra was in the throne debate last year. Perhaps the Workers' Party's representatives have understood that what people in the West need are targeted measures that work, not crisis maximisation and a higher tax bill from politicians in Oslo. The lesson from the downturn is that we can't do anything about the oil price, but we can make ourselves less vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations. In such a situation, stable and predictable industry framework conditions become more important than ever. At the same time, we absolutely need to facilitate the creation of more jobs in new industries. The election next year will also be important for the direction of energy and climate policy. Today's debate has made it clear that consensus and willingness to implement the green shift are among the bourgeois parties, but it is very unclear what the red-greens can agree on. On our side, we have discussed the size of fossil fuel tax increases and the arrangements for tax reductions. On the other hand, there has been no doubt about the principle that there is a polluter to pay. But what do we hear from the red-green side? Well, we hear a Senter party that disagrees with itself about whether we should at all increase the fees on what pollutes, whether it's fuel or a seat tax. We hear a Workers' Party inviting us to a climate settlement without wanting to say anything about either the device or the level of charges to get the emissions down. Then we also hear an SV and an Environmental Party of the Greens who will both wind up Norwegian oil industry and increase fuel taxes heavily. There was a lot of time before the 2013 elections to warn against climate chaos on the civil side. Today we are holding the fasit in our hand and can say that this fear has been unfounded. On the other hand, it becomes increasingly clear that climate-policy chaos is developing on the red-green side, and there is reason to notice a year before the next big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2656	Terje Aasland said in his speech that there was a climate policy break from the government. I am definitely not going to defend the government, but I am going to stand up for the climate policy that a bourgeois majority in the UK stands for. There is no doubt that the most important decision that has been taken internationally since the last time we had a debate on the throne is the Paris Agreement, and we have had an important follow-up to it in the six months that have passed. It began with a civil agreement that we should commit ourselves to the EU goal, that we should have 40 pst. reduction, and that we have to commit ourselves through that consensus. For me, it is quite incomprehensible that both SV and MDG can be opposed. I think this is just the kind of agreement that we have to be part of in order to achieve our own goals. Also in this year's budget are important environmental and climate measures, with a focus on both public transport, especially in the major cities with a significant increase, and on rail. We are constantly working to make biofuels competitive, and there are many individual decisions, both on how to strengthen the environmental part of public procurement, and also on collective prices. Maybe the most important thing we had last year and the spring session is the energy message, to which it was referred. What we did at Stortinget and in the Energy and Environment Committee was to link the Energy Communication to the Paris Agreement, and we set the goals we need to achieve the 2040 targets. It is a matter of decision-making that almost all new cars to be sold in 2020-2025 must be zero-emission vehicles, that we must have fossil-free heavy transport by 2030. There is offensive policy on hydrogen. We have it on shipping. We have an additional 10 TWh target in the Energy Communication, and this summer Norway was the first industrialised country to ratify the Paris Agreement. That's where we went in front. We made a decision in connection with the treatment that creates a systematic relationship between accumulation and government in the years to come, which will be absolutely necessary to pursue this policy in the future. Now it's about implementing. The overall objectives are in many ways largely adopted on the Biggest. Now it's about implementing, and then it needs action. It is quite strange when the budgetary process in the harvest begins with what is almost an ultimatum by the government. Now everyone who's been doing a lot of negotiations knows that when you put ultimatums forward, you're really just weakening your own position. From the left side, we're optimistic about the harvest we're going to go into. It is clear that the budget for next year must have a crucial climate action to achieve the objectives we have committed ourselves to in the Paris Agreement. There are 13 years left until we have to have a 40 pst. reduction in the non-quota sector. There's a lot of other things that have to go up as well. Enova shall have a new agreement from 1 January. Climate targets must be an important part. Hydrogen has to be a separate target, otherwise it's going to drown in the big picture. There must be a separate program destination in the order for Enova. We also need to have a national transport plan that comes to spring, with important decisions. One is, of course, that we should follow the objective already adopted, of zero-emission vehicles and reduction in the transport sector. But it's just as important to get a lift for the Norwegian railway. Now we need to look at Norwegian railways in a Scandinavian perspective, in terms of freight transport, where we need to look beyond our own borders in order to get the necessary long-term and lifting, and we also need a high-speed strategy for the big cities of Scandinavia. Finally, one area where little has been done is Norwegian policy towards the petroleum sector. Petroleum policy must be brought into line with the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. The main point is that we need to look at the risks involved in the policy we have today. Three things must be at the root of the petroleum policy: we are not going into vulnerable areas. We're going to reduce emissions during production, and the last one is that it has to be profitable. We need a new oil tax commission to look at the entire tax system and link it to the Paris Agreement and its objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2672	If there is one issue that is particularly important for the country in the next year, it is the economic state — and not least the need for change, further transformation. Since the fall in oil prices, the country has experienced higher unemployment rates and, too many, difficult times. In recent years, the Norwegian economy has had a strong external impact, and the solution has been and continues to be conversion, renewal and modernisation. Fortunately, we have a business that has shown at an impressive pace that it's ability to turn around and change. It is also important that, as politicians, we do not put obstacles in the way of the necessary transformation, but, on the contrary, is a driver and facilitates the transformation that business creates. Then the solution, as some people suggest, is not to be almost allergic to absolutely necessary reforms. Although sometimes it may be painful to carry out reforms, I am glad that we have a government that looks beyond the next elections at least, and makes the necessary efforts to strengthen the Norwegian economy and secure Norwegian jobs. Fresh numbers show that the unemployment rate is now falling for the fourth month in a row. It is very pleasing and also shows that much of the scare propaganda from the particular Workers' Party has been exactly that – a horror propaganda on autopilot. We are now starting slowly, but surely seeing some of the results of several of the grips the government has taken. In September, 400 fewer unemployed persons were registered, according to statistics from Nav. It is, as I said, the fourth month of decline. It is very joyful and yet another reason why we can hope that the worst in the Norwegian economy is over. But that doesn't mean we have to stop the work. The unemployment rate is now approx. 2.8 pst., down from 2.9 pst. at the same time last year. We have also had challenges that unemployment has been very unevenly distributed around the country. We have had growing unemployment in the South West, but for example. in Northern Norway, we see that unemployment has fallen, and we see it in the interior. It shows that it's important that the grips we put in are targeted. The king was aware in the throne that the labour force was Norway’s most important resource. That's what the government has been ready for, because our main goal is to make sure that as many people as possible are able to stand on their own feet. But we also have a government that is aware that it is not this room that creates jobs. The workplaces are created in business, and then, as I started with, it is important that we do not put obstacles in the way, but facilitate business. The head of the Labour Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, proclaimed from this pulpit earlier today that the Workers' Party now wants to narrow the door to work, by reversing the decoration we had of the Working Environment Act so that we got a work environment law that is actually adapted to the modern society and the needs of the individual citizen, employee and company now have in 2016. I don't think, as the Labour Party unfortunately adds, that a 1970s law is the solution to the challenges of the future. I also have no faith in those who now want to increase taxes and taxes by 10, 20 or 26 billion. kr. The fact that increasing the tax burden on businesses and on individuals is the solution to the tough transition we are facing now, I disagree very much. In particular, I find it strange that when much of the criticism has been that we have a government that actually uses some of the action space we have with oil wealth to create more activity in the economy, the Labour Party solution is to increase the taxes to fill the oil fund even more. Finally, I would like to recall the three recognitions of the Progress Party, the Right and the Government, namely that we now have the will to change, that welfare depends on value creation, and that we need to reform the public sector in the future. All three of these findings point towards change in the world of work and are necessary for society and thus for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2689	The main task of the government is to pursue a policy that ensures jobs and facilitates the creation of new ones. Both parts require willingness to prioritize and long-termity, and that at a time when we cannot benefit from the relief provided by a historically high oil price. We're going to deal with both failing revenues as a result of the fall in the oil price, and an alarming need for conversion, a transformation that should have started a long time ago. In addition, many refugees must be integrated into Norwegian society. The unemployment situation varies widely between regions and between industries. There's too much time off in the oil-dependent states. In other counties, unemployment goes down, and there's a lot of demand for people in more industries. Young people who had previously received a job without education now experience the opposite. We therefore have to make sure that more people become more qualified, but also connect their free hands with the available jobs. Many, in fact, are not aware of the possibilities that exist. Despite a difficult situation, we have dealt well with the situation so far. The State budgets in the last few years have, among other things: contributed to it. But we must not take for granted that the time off has stabilized too well, or that the way forward becomes simple. It won't. It will continue to require prioritisation and long-termity. To create new, safe and profitable jobs, we need to invest first, and it takes time to develop new skills and jobs. The government places emphasis on a teacher's effort to strengthen the school, but it takes time from bet to results. The government has prioritised a record investment in research, but it takes time from investment in research to results in the form of new businesses and new jobs. The government and the bulk of the population have secured a record bet on the road and the road. It creates employment in the short term but is also an investment to strengthen Norway’s competitiveness in the longer term. I could continue to do so on other themes, such as better organisation of the public sector or measures to strengthen Norwegian ownership. Secondly, I would warn against maximising crisis in a situation where the economy is tidy, solid and stable, and we are beginning to see sparkle. Yes, it is demanding in some industries and regions. The answer is not to send a heavy tax bill to companies that are struggling, but to ensure competitiveness and viability. Norway has relatively small differences compared to other countries. We'll take care of that. A good school that guarantees everyone equal rights to education is our main social policy tool. Free health and welfare services and an inclusive working life with room for all just help to reduce differences and increase opportunities. Disparity in employment is among the main causes of inequality in economic and social participation. Too many people are out of work today. There is not a single response to the challenges, but rather more. Some act quickly, as an activity obligation for young social welfare recipients. We have concluded a cooperation agreement with the social partners to establish a fast track for refugees with requested skills. Other measures take time before they produce results, such as teacher involvement and research. The government has submitted a communication on Nav, which we are about to debate. How can we empower the Nav offices and improve the ability of employees to help? We have proposed important changes to the Daycare Code to make it easier to retrain to new jobs and make it easier to set up your own business in combination with daily allowances. We are paying more attention to intra-corporate conversion. Ultimately, change is also about helping people to acquire new and relevant skills when applying for new jobs. Norway has managed downstretching and demanding situations before. Norway will now do the same. But it's not going to happen by itself, and it will require targeted priorities in the future and that we do more of what we know works.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2712	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2717	It is the Minister of Labour who is also responsible for social policy, and in political quarters today we could hear the representative of Astrup from the Right talk about targeted poverty measures and how important it was. But what we can see, is that one of the most targeted Right and the Progress Party is driving, is the effort for the richest in the country. Differences in the country are increasing, and an important part of the reason for it is the Right Party and the Progress Party's own policy. Now, tax policy is not a constitutional responsibility for this Council of States, so I will not ask whether — it is relevant for increasing differences — but from the Ministry of Labour, there are proposals to remove holiday money for the unemployed, cut the child supplement for the disabled, and such proposals as tax on termination benefits, as well as other government proposals. So my question is what it's like for the Council of State to be one of those responsible when it comes to increasing the social and economic differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2724	Of course, I totally disagree with that description of reality. It is about strengthening the workline, supporting under the measures that make it pay to work. The languages of the throne that were read yesterday were just about reducing inequality. It was about reducing unemployment, it was about integrating more, among other things. the newly arrived refugees. It was about early work, about a good school and including several of those who are currently on health-related benefits, getting more of them into the workplace. The languages of the throne that were read yesterday were about assisting more families living in poverty, and about including more children to participate in leisure activities and in social life. So this government has, on the contrary, provided a lot of good policies to reduce differences and to reduce inequality, and this government is still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2731	In the Common Era, a great many ambitions could be heard, which are now being repeated, but one less heard about measures to achieve that kind of ambition. But one of the advantages of being a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is that if one is closed with one, one needs one less of the other. Therefore, it is so regrettable that the government was closed so badly to contribute to the creation of new jobs. So we are in a situation where we have the highest unemployment rate in over 20 years, the lowest employment rate in over 20 years, while one sees that there is hardly any job growth in this country, and that of the 25 000 jobs that have been created, three quarters of them in the public sector. Then my question about the Minister of Labour himself is that there is hardly any job growth and that the jobs that have been created have mainly been in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2736	What strikes me is that every time you see a flash of light in the economy, every time you get a new forecast that things are going forward, every time you hear that unemployment goes down, the Workers' Party screams louder that things are going bad. Now we see that the registered unemployment goes down, it's flattened out into large parts of the country, and it's gone down 4 months in a row, it's now going down to 15 of the country's counties. The registered unemployment rate is 2.8 pst, and then we see that there are regional differences. We see that several jobs are announced free of charge for Nav, we see that contracts are given to companies, we see that the industry reports brighter times. But that doesn't mean we're going to lean back. On the contrary, it is now that we really need to continue with full strength to pursue the policy we are seeing and that now also the forecasters are saying is producing results. We've always said that 2016 is going to be a demanding year, we're going to convert Norway to a whole new era, and then we're going to see brighter times in 2017, and it also seems to be going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2743	We have two ways of measuring leave. The council referred to the last numbers from Nav, the recorded unemployment rate of 2.8 pst, and then you have the surveys via the SSB that say we have an unemployment rate of 5 pst. I'm a little interested in how the Council of State assesses these figures that are so striking, because it has something to do with how to set up measures. This is not so much political really, but on the basis of such very wide numbers as the two different contracting entities – to call it that – operate with: What does the Council of State and the government think best about real unemployment in Norway, and does it matter for the measures the government believes it is necessary, that there is such a big gap?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2748	The big question at the moment is why the deviation is so great between the registered unemployment figures and the AKU figures. What many people think is that the AKUs look like this. because they have an overrepresentation of young people. We also see that there is an increase in the number of action places, which is, of course, a misguided policy, and some also believe that the AKU figures are probably not as well suited to show short-term unemployment. What I'm dealing with is the registered unemployment figures, because it says something about how to dimension the action areas, among other things. I also see that more people are now more different from Nav to the AKU numbers. But at the same time, we still have to look at the AKU numbers, we can't choose to ignore them, but there's a lot of evidence that it's probably the Nav numbers that now give the most accurate picture. So I can just say in the end that in the case of the AKUs, you also see that very many of the young people who say they're unemployed have chosen to go to study, and that's also positive at a time when many of the young people lack education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2755	Market economy means, inter alia: that, when there is a shortage of labour, the weak groups are more likely to get into high-income jobs. Conversely, when there is a surplus of labour, it becomes more difficult to get work to Norwegian pay and work conditions. Our EEA obligations mean that there will be a large supply of labour to the industry in occupations that are not specifically protected, e.g.: in the case of language or competence requirements e.g. Under these conditions, therefore, market forces result in a large supply of labour, which means that differences in pay and working conditions are increasing, the weak are being pushed out of the labour market, and there are greater differences between people. Governments just said that small economic differences between people should be taken care of. This means that the government will use increased funds to get these groups into work, as a consequence of, among other things. The EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2762	There is no doubt that there is some disagreement between our two parties about the EEA Agreement and the benefits and disadvantages of the agreement. I believe that the EEA Agreement has been good, it has been good for Norway also because the EEA citizens have contributed to the necessary labour force. And it is also good for EEA citizens, who are given the opportunity to get a job in a larger labour market than they have had before, and it is also good for Norwegian workers. Of course, it is a goal for us to contribute to the employment of all those who are now unemployed, including unemployed EEA immigrants. Many of the measures we have put in place to increase employment are also in sectors to which many EEA citizens have traditionally applied, such as the United Kingdom. the construction industry. Then we have taken other important steps to increase the individual's ability to retrain to new industries. The representative of Lundtigen is well aware of the changes. in the day-to-day pay legislation, which would facilitate re-schooling or continuing training if you want to work in your own sector, or in other sectors as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2772	I thought the Minister of Labour gave a description of the labour market that was basically good and accurate. Not to mention, it is now a quite large group of people, especially in the South of the West, who are approaching the end of their daily allowance period, and who have not yet got a job. These are people who have housing loans, who have families, and who have a lot of expenses, and going from daily money to what then becomes the only remaining option, simply social assistance, will lead to a huge drop in income for many. Now it's not to hope that these human beings are looking for other statements, for example. health-related social security benefits when they have no reason to do so, but then there are many who ask: What options do I have? What I want to ask the Minister of Labour about is how does the government intend to put in place measures to help those who have still not got a job and who are now missing the daily allowance? And does the Minister of Labour think that social assistance as a scheme, with the low level of it, is well enough fit to meet that group?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2781	For many of those who are unemployed, social assistance will not be something you probably meet the conditions for, so the most important thing we can do is provide enough jobs for those who lose their jobs, in time. What you see is that most people get jobs relatively quickly. I guess there's as much as a third that gets a job within a month, half of the unemployed have got a job within six months, and then someone goes all the way out. That group is quite diverse. Now I have also asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to go through the matters carefully to those who are now approaching the end of the period, to see what kind of challenges they have, and what kind of help we can address them. Some have poor health, low education and require specific measures, while others have education, experience and competence. For the last group, it's a little bit simpler, because we see that there are many vacancies in many branches of the country. Many of them can also be communicated there, but job no. 1 now provides more jobs in the areas affected by unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2788	In our lost country's pensioners once again, purchasing power. While the price of bread and housing goes up, the pensions are hanging again. In our government tried to keep the social security settlement away from Stortinget. You didn't want to pay attention to the matter and saw yourself most profited by keeping it away. That strategy, of course, did not bear the light of the day, and SV demanded that the social security scheme be dealt with in Stortinget, and that such an important matter should be dealt with here. The result of this was that the majority, including the Right and the Advance Party, agreed on the following wording: ‘For this reason, the majority will request that, as from 2016, in the context of the State budget for the autumn, a separate notification be promoted to the Stortinget, which deals with the establishment of social security funds.’; So I wonder, is there a message coming in with the state budget on Thursday, and how are the pensioners' organisations involved in the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2800	There has been no desire to keep Stortinget away from anything, as the representative Bergstø believes. On the contrary, the government has been concerned about involving the Stortinget, but, as the representative knows, social security has been settled a little differently now than before, among other things. as a result of the pension reform and the decisions taken there in 2011, but also the decisions taken by the Stortinget in the context of the 2016 budget. The Government shall present a big message, as the representative says, now in the autumn. All the information previously contained in the social security proposal – which is now no longer a proposition – will also be mentioned in this message, and among others. the development of the income of pensioners will also be discussed, so that the Storting is given good information on the circumstances of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2807	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2812	Many people know about their body the serious situation we have in Norway related to the record high unemployment rate. 139 000 people are looking for new opportunities, and under this government only 25 000 new jobs have been created, of which three out of four have been created in the public sector. It is worth remembering that during our reign, 360 000 new jobs were created in Norway, two out of three in the private sector. We also fear the increase of 10 pst. in the number of temporary staff resulting from government policies. This creates uncertainty for those involved. The SSB describes that we need to double Norwegian exports in order to maintain current well-being by 2040. This requires growth in export-oriented business and good, predictable framework conditions for Norwegian business. The government's response has been to use 50 million. kr a day on growth-promoting tax cuts, which must be very demanding to defend when there are at the same time 25 new unemployed every day. The main business of the government, cut in taxes on wealth, has not worked against unemployment, but has been effective in creating greater differences. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has received two expert investigations on the table where it has been modest that unilateral cuts in the wealth tax do not work, but the government does not listen to the advice of the professionals. On the other hand, a calculation by the SSB shows that public money use is 70 times more effective than tax relief to create new jobs, which the government should absolutely listen to. With today's record job creation, it would be thought that we in the Business Committee were overworked, that the government was pushing for counter-cyclical measures and offensive shopping messages for increased value creation and new jobs. Instead, we are waiting for the government to provide a travel life message, an industry message, a bioeconomy strategy, a forest report, an agricultural report. It goes against four lost years for several of the industries we're going to live on in the future. The government has spent a lot of time trying to sell the legacy silver rather than delivering measures that create new jobs. Thursday is the last opportunity for this government to deliver. The Prime Minister has talked about migration over time, but in the overview of the emerging industries, there has been so far no progress. We haven't seen the big growth in the bioeconomy or marine resources. It is in health and care, construction, hotels and services and public administration that we first and foremost see traces of growth. If the Prime Minister thinks something about green growth, the time is overdue to deliver an offensive national strategy for the marine environment. It's time to come up with the bioeconomy strategy, and it's time to make the industry announcement. In the field of nutrition, the government has really slept an hour and spent time talking about the situation rather than acting. The slow pace of the government has increased the unemployment rate rather than the creation of new jobs. The Norwegian model was duly mentioned in the census, but I just have to say that the government and the Workers' Party have to look at this differently. The government says that the biggest threat to the Norwegian model is that we are unable to change in time. I would say that the government is the biggest threat to the Norwegian model, because they have not understood the competitiveness of it and how the mechanisms function as a conversion engine. Tripartite cooperation is important because together you are stronger and you find better solutions. Safer employees dare more – employees who are involved in the innovation process take co-responsibility and are solution-oriented in search of the best solutions. The government creates uncertainty among employees with increased temporaryity and zero focus on social dumping. The government's arrogance with the employee organisations creates poorer solutions for conversion and weakens the cooperation climate and the best solutions. What Norwegian people need are more jobs, and they need to increase value creation and focus on increased incomes in order to maintain today's welfare society. What we are now seeing is that the results of the Right’s policy are increasing differences in the labour market, increasing disparities between poor and rich, increasing differences between cities and countries — a conscious policy pursued by the government. In the Workers' Party, we want to go in a different direction. We know that major challenges are best solved together. History has shown that we stand closer together, and we know that there is a need for effective measures to build up under new jobs. We also know that work for everyone, small differences and good Community solutions are the key to a society with security and opportunities for everyone. I can promise that we in the Workers' Party will do everything we can to make the government, which is so happy in temporary employment, find something else to do in one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2837	All the above is probably the most important task in the Norwegian healthcare system to create security; the security of help comes quickly when accidents occur, the security of the health professionals you meet can be their job, the security of the family being well cared for when you are ill, the security of the municipality’s needs when you need assistance. For the addicted woman, the safety of a treatment facility that is available when she is motivated for treatment, but also that she can be safe to be met with respect and outreach health care when in active drug use. For children in school, it is safe to know that the door to health care is open, that small problems can be solved in this office in a safe conversation, not after the little boy has had it difficult for months, but immediately. Has the government been able to provide security for good health services when you need it? Yes, the government has it, it has the Minister of Health, and we have it here on the Stortinget, in good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. Both waiting times and the number of waiting days in the specialist health service, especially for paper spacers, have been reduced. We have given addicts the right to choose their own treatment site. The free choice of treatment is to take seriously that it is safe to make your own choices about your own health. I'm so proud that we gave the ruspacers this right immediately. The patient organisations are cheering. The only ones that still survene are red-green politicians, who think the system should choose, not the patient. The fact that the Workers' Party chooses to reverse the ruspacers' right to choose for themselves shows how little they are occupied with the individual patient. For those who are diagnosed with cancer, safety and trust are important. The government's introduction of predictable 28 cancer package pathways ensures continuity and security before, during and after cancer treatment. Package processes are now being developed in mental health. What is the answer from the Workers' Party? - No, they're against it. For cancer patients and all others suffering from disease or injury that will last over time, we have put in place the permanent contact system. Repeating their medical history every time a new doctor meets at the hospital creates insecurity. Now patients don't tell their disease history over and over and over again. Now they have a permanent contact doctor, who will ensure that all those who need information about their treatment will receive it. So far we have heard the disappearance of a little new policy from the Workers' Party in terms of health. The representative Torgeir Micaelsen mentions important global health challenges, such as: antibiotic resistance, an area in which Norway has taken important initiatives both nationally and internationally, most recently at a high-level UN meeting, attended by both the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister. Then we hear Torgeir Micaelsen talking about the importance of investing in prevention services for children and young people. Yeah, that's important. For the last three years, we've been feeding the municipalities nearly 1 billion. to strengthen the interdisciplinary service for children and young people. The representative Torgeir Micaelsen talks about track record – or results, as we call it on Eidsvoll. From 2012 to 2013, there was a decrease of nine health sisters. In 2014, there was an increase of 157. In 2015, there was a new increase, of 135. There are 292 more health sisters out in Norwegian municipalities to meet children and young people when they need it. In addition, we have just received a youth health strategy that raises the needs of young people in health care, and together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have ensured that we have a comprehensive strategy for children and young people's mental health, to be followed by an obligatory escalation plan for this. For children and young people, safety is about meeting a health service that is on the same track as them. Therefore, easier access to digital health services for children and young people is under development. In the patient's healthcare, we have to make sure to meet children and young people where they are. In recent years, I have also met many people who need greater predictability in Norwegian care for the elderly. In this area, the government has taken very important steps to increase both the capacity and quality of that part of healthcare. Every minute of every day, Norwegian health services go up to the exam, because security is about that one not a small piece in a big puzzle, but that one is treated as the most important piece in the puzzle on the day you need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2865	After listening to several representatives from the red-green opposition who have spoken here today, I start to wonder what kind of business, what kind of people they've visited since the last time the Storting was gathered. Yes, we have challenges in Norway now, especially in the South and West, where unemployment has grown due to falls in oil prices. But Norway is primarily full of possibilities, and that's what characterizes all of us as we travel around the country. It's not pessimism and blackness – it's looking for the new ideas, more research, new innovation and developing the profitability of the company that owns or works in to ensure that one can create another job. That is what this should be about. For the government, there are alpha and omega, because we recognize that the situation of young workers after the fall in oil prices is very demanding for many. It is not as if one could get the impression when the representative Else-May Botten spoke, that there are new big messages that get more jobs in this country. There are several profitable companies that employ people in this country, and this means that policy must first and foremost be accurate for those who now feel that everyday life has changed as a result of the state of the oil sector. It has been followed up by this government, both through short-term measures to meet the challenges of the labour market, and not least by ensuring that it is actually competitive over time. Then I wonder that Stortinget spends so much time discussing the degree of tax havens that have been right for a good number of companies. The Labour Party has also concluded that a reduction in company tax is necessary. Why did they do that? Published because tax relief is the determining factor for long-term change, the long-term profitability of enterprises. For the government, this is the important thing – in fact, to be able to manage both the short-term demanding situation we have in the labour market, especially in the South and West, and that we do not lose sight of what is all the governments' most important task, to ensure that the possibilities in the future do not suffer the short-term challenge we are facing. Then it is absolutely decisive that we are happy with the long-term change, of which the Labour Party was not busy while they were in government, and of which they seem not to be busy today either. But then you have to get away from the rhetoric. And now we're going to hear again today the old slogan "Sal of Norway". Several representatives have used the sale of Statskog's property as an example. It's not about Norway's hall. It's about strengthening private property rights – a change of entrapment the Center Party used to be busy, and a change of parties on the Stortinget should be busy; it's simply for private landowners we sell these forest properties. 90 pst. of the forest properties are sold to the local landowner as already owned forest, or to the municipality as owner, or to a forest owner in a neighbouring municipality. It's not the hall of Norway. It is to ensure that one of the most important principles on which this state is founded, namely respect for private ownership, is actually strengthened. Sales to Norwegian private owners are not sold by Norway. Private ownership is fundamental to people developing the property they live in and creating profitable businesses of them. Therefore, we are forced to put away all the whispers that I experience as if a person were just talking about the hall of Norway, when we are actually talking about strengthening the private, Norwegian ownership. This government has done so in many areas. This is the basis for a tax policy that encourages us to want to invest in Norwegian jobs, which is the basis that we trigger when we also sell ourselves down, for example. on a forest. The future is ahead of us. Without the sun, and it might be worth turning around and actually looking at it, because it's as simple as that instead of painting into a corner, this government is going to solve the challenges that lie ahead of us, but we're also going to take care of all the unique possibilities that Norway has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2878	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2883	I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture is talking about the success of industrial policy. And as he sailed, if we're going to be able to create one more, two more jobs, we're going to have to be absolutely certain. Today, we have heard that what is the main instrument is the significant tax havens that have favored the richest in this country. When 50 of the richest in average gets 20 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. How many jobs are there in this industry? I fully agree with the Minister of Agriculture that when travelling around, it is not sutling, but it is primarily a requirement that the government should be on the road in two respects: greater contributions to investment in this sector and greater contribution to profitability. Does the Council see the need to put investment funds on the table now in order to increase production in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2890	First of all, the main concept of this government when it comes to solving the short-term employment challenges has not been tax changes. There have been targeted measures against the regions experiencing growing unemployment. For the long-term profitability of Norwegian enterprises, tax policy is decisive. I thought that was why the Labour Party also saw the need for e.g. to reduce corporation tax. Agriculture is in a lucky situation. Agricultural income trends between 2014 and 2017 are estimated to be 18.75 pst. It is considerably higher than most other groups and significantly higher than in the last three red-green years. Then it's important to me: when we now hear criticism of the government for spending too much money, I think the Labour Party is still going to spend more money on agriculture. I'm busy getting good results for each of the heads we use in the agricultural sector. This government has shown that we might be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2896	It still remains to be heard how accurate such a big bet on so significant tax credits, in fact, is. Then I think first of all about the win-win situation in which the government council actually represents its department – towards the green shift, housing, district policy, producing healthy food, getting enough out of the woods. One might wish that there was a reality in what the Council of State said in its statement that he would now increase the focus on research and competence in this area. What we have been doing in the last three years has actually been three lost years in the sense that we are still cutting, especially in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget in relation to important research. The Council of State does not see that in precisely these areas, it would be well beyond the agricultural area if it were to contribute to growth, among other things. the research effort, not least as regards the question of increasing profitability beyond today's level?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2902	If we're going to increase wages beyond today's level, it's not about using more public dollars into an industry. It's about getting more pay out of the industry. That's the potential we're about to unlock -- the part of the area that's going out of operation, going down, the part of the farmers that's ending up, flattening out, the income development is positive. Many bets, and that's why the representative basically asks about investment agencies, because very many more want to invest for the future. It is an enormous optimism in Norwegian agriculture because it is profitable in it. I will manage and take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2906	Then I fully agree with the representative that research is still going to be important also in the agricultural field. But the most important thing to do in the coming years is to ensure that Norwegian agriculture becomes more competitive. Then the answer is no more and most likely public money use, then the answer is more conversion and more market correction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2909	I agree with the Council of State, which says that Norway is full of opportunities, that there are entrepreneurs who want to create new jobs. We need them on the team. But on Friday we were told that the government would increase the mineral oil tax by 20 cents. Who's going to be hit by this? Well, it's the construction industry, and it's farmers. The mineral oil tax is a tax on something that is, among other things, a tax on mineral oil. requires as fuel for the tractor and there are few tractors which can run on so much else provisionally. This is an action in the green tax shift, where something needs to be increased to reduce something else. I agree that we have to attend and develop the properties where people live, and when the farmers do, my question is to the Council of State: What measures does the Council of State take to help the farmer, who is now getting an increased mineral oil tax, to develop the property where he lives, or the neighbouring property?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2916	If we are to close down with the green shift, all sectors must contribute – including the agricultural sector. I'm glad that agriculture shows great ability and willingness to participate in the green shift. At the same time, we're going to present a government budget on Thursday this week, and I'm going to deliver more groceries to Stortinget in the coming months. There I will show both the possibilities and the challenges that lie in the agricultural sector. I think there are great opportunities to continue developing agriculture in a more environmentally friendly way. The report we received earlier this year shows that by continuing to produce today, agriculture can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by up to 20 pst. That's good. That is what I think we should follow up in close cooperation with industry, which has also been agreed through this year's agricultural agreement. So I think agriculture, too, must be prohibited from compensating for not all costs one gets, in line with what all other sectors get. The final answer is in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2925	I have to say that it is on the verge of dishonesty when the Council of State talks about income trends 2014–2017 without including agricultural spending in 2013 as an important part of the income development that has been. The majority have said that it is important to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other sectors of society. I expect that it will be the leading policy for the future. But this is to be mentioned in the announcement of the agricultural declaration. My question is simply: can the Council of State promise that this agricultural message, which we have now been waiting for three years, will be submitted so that the Stortinget will have time to deal with it in good time before the spring's agricultural decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2935	It is difficult for me to guarantee what progress is in Stortinget when we have delivered the case, but I propose to bring the matter forward, so that the Stortinget will have a reasonable time to deal with it before the agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2939	But it's strange that instead of enjoying the current trend in income in agriculture, the Central Party has a problem accepting the basis of the Contracting Parties, i.e. the State and the Norwegian Confederation, some of them are based on the calculations that my 183.4 p.m. figure base. is calculated from. It's just the central party that's questioning that statistical base, everyone else is a bit of a doubt about it. Then I think that sometimes we can enjoy what goes well. We have been helped by our Lord, it has been our good harvest years, and much has gone the right way, but nevertheless it must be allowed sometimes to rejoice that things are going well, even if it is not the government you would like to get it to, that delivers the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2942	Ecology is the headline of my line, my question. New figures from the Directorate of Agriculture show that organic agricultural land, holdings and production in Norway have fallen and are now down to about 5 pst. of total agricultural production. The figures of the Directorate of Agriculture show that the demand for organic products is increasing, especially by some product categories. At the same time, there is a long way to reach the 15 p.m. target by 2020. The question is: what will the Minister of Agriculture do to ensure that the objectives of the Storting for organic farming and consumption and production of organic products are more consistent, that the ecological objectives of the Storting can be achieved? How high a priority is there? That's the question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2947	It is right that there is growing demand for organic products, especially fruit and greenery. It's a pleasure. For the left, however, it will be a bit challenging for demand to come in one of the sectors where Norwegian production is the smallest part. When it comes to organic production, we've had a significantly higher production over time than we have in the market. About half of the milk that has been produced organically has been translated as conventional, and it's the same, but even a little weaker number for meat. Over time, I think there should be a greater degree of balance between what one produces and what is consumed and demanded by consumers. There have been many questions, and I have also replied to the Riksrevision that I will come back with a strategy for organic farming, but before I finish it, I will also send a message to Stortinget, which is also about how we are going to deal with organic production in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2954	I want to talk about vulnerability. We're now producing food in Norway that never before. Right, it's not primarily within the area of the standing state council's department it's the biggest increase in food production, it's in the fisheries field it's all, the biggest, but the point is the exact same. We produce more food, but at the same time we become increasingly dependent on imports of feed from abroad. There is also an increase in the imports of co-feed in agriculture. It makes Norway particularly vulnerable. Now I'm not going to call for total self-storage, but a greater degree of it will at least make us less vulnerable. This also says the plurality of the Storting in agricultural policy, that we want a stronger effort to prevent us from becoming as vulnerable as we are now becoming. Do the Councils share my concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2959	The premise for the question is wrong. It is such that the Norwegian part of the feed has risen in the previous year. Then we'll hope there's a trend that continues. So far, the harvest year for Norwegian cereals also looks good in the current year, and it gives hope that we will increase the share of Norwegian power feed. So it's actually not true that he's going down for Norwegian livestock production. At the same time, it is evident that there is a basis for stimulating Norwegian production. One of the challenges that I thought SV was a little bit too weak to take over is that what we're essentially importing is protein sources. It comes from two things. One is that we do not use meat-and-bone meal in Norwegian feed production, and the other is that we do not use fish-and-bone flour in Norwegian feed production. A third thing is that we produce cereals. That's how we increase the proportion of food grain instead of producing other protein crops on Norwegian agricultural land. It is good in sum, for it returns the highest possible Norwegian output.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2973	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2979	In recent years, we have been through great changes as a nation. Oil price falls have given us challenges, both nationally, locally and in the lives of individuals. It is essential that we now take the necessary change that is needed, and point out a new direction for our country and our value creation. It is we who are politicians today who are going to facilitate the Norway of the future. That's why it's also been important for the Christian People's Party to work for a business policy that creates opportunities for the next generation, and not obstacles. ‘Norway is a country with great potential. We have a highly educated population and large natural resources." That's what His Majesty said yesterday. That's right, and if we're going to increase value creation, we have to make sure that young people see the possibilities in these industries. Therefore, Christian People's Party thought and thought it was completely wrong to add new stones to the burden of making it more difficult for children who want to take over the farm from Mom or Dad, by removing the tax exemption on generation change, as the government suggested last year. We also know that through sustainable resource management of our marine resources, we have high values. In order to succeed in harvesting marine resources, it is important to have a well-documented knowledge of the resource base so that today’s young fishermen can take the necessary investments for the future, based on a documented evidence base. That is why the Christian People's Party has also strengthened the allocation of resources research in recent years. Rapid technological development offers many opportunities. Earlier this fall, I was with the rest of the nutrition committee in Silicon Valley. There we met many entrepreneurs, including the Norwegian founder within 3D printing. 3D printing will change a lot of production. One can sit somewhere else, print somewhere else, where one needs the parts locally, and then go straight to testing the night's printing to then do further development work the rest of the day. The next generation depends on our ability to develop and think in the future, but we also depend on our being able to cope with increased unemployment in many sectors today. If Mom and Dad do not have a job, it will affect the whole family financially and will also increase the pressure on their parents. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is not fighting for an action package that provides more jobs, just a struggle to help unemployed adults. Family unemployment affects the whole family, not just the unemployed. If we are to create safe and good homes, we must make sure that those who are responsible for caring experience that they can meet this. A continued fight against unemployment is therefore very important and something that we must give priority to, including for the sake of children. In 2013, the Christian People's Party went to the elections to work for a society that's good for the children, because we know that a society that's good for the children is good for us all. Since then, we have been working strategically and focused on putting the children's situation on the agenda. A particularly vulnerable group are children who come to Norway alone. As the government pointed out in its statement on the state of the kingdom yesterday, 2015 was a year of high influxes of refugees. Among these were 5,297 children who came all by themselves. These are some of the most vulnerable children we have in Norway today. These are also part of the next generation of Nordics, for which we need to secure a good future. These are our kids, and so it's outrageous to see that the number of children who disappear from their receptions is increasing. Children who disappear are just as serious, wherever they come from, but we see today that children who are refugees and alone in Norway are not being followed up well enough, and that when these disappear, unfortunately, no one or very few are looking for them. We know that these children are particularly vulnerable and are at high risk of being exposed to crime or trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e2998	Again: These are also our children, children who need to be seen, cared for and protected. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore important to ensure that these children have enough adults around them, and that adults responsible for them should have competence and knowledge of what makes children extra vulnerable. We need adults who see them, and who see what challenges these kids are fighting with, and adults who are fighting for those who don't have others to fight for themselves. We simply don't have the opportunity to fail, for the sake of these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3001	Everyone's talking about the sea. It is in Norway's future to be created, it is through the resilient development of the marine resources in the sea a new spring for Norwegian business to be created. That's the way it goes. I can't agree more. The big question is, on whose premises will this happen? Who's gonna make a difference? Who should be in the driver's seat? Is it going to happen on the premises of a few, big players, or is it going to happen on the nation of Norway and the coastal people's premises? We can't get away with that question. We've done this exercise before as a nation – with the force of water, with oil. We have made sure that there was never any doubt about ownership and income. We made sure that the societies in which these industries operate are involved in the creation of value. This lesson seems to be forgotten or overlooked when it comes to the sea, for the last 30 years, a rapid and uncontrolled change in Norwegian fishing has occurred, and since the New Year it has exploded. There will be fewer and fewer boats. The dishes go from smaller coastal boats to larger and larger industrial boats. The country industry reports that they already notice this – with fewer landings and less value creation on land. Fish quotas are collected on fewer hands, resulting in a build-up of dishes in fewer places. Fewer coastal communities are allowed to take part in the fishing, not because of poor fishing, but because they cannot afford to be in the price gap. Since Per Sandberg became Minister of Fisheries, the cost of fishing quotas and dishes has gone into the weather, often three- and four-fold, only during the year. Now the prices are so high that even fishermen have problems taking over permits, and we already see that young people with this policy are effectively excluded. It is not difficult to understand when the price of a normal fishing quota has gone free in 2000 to be between 2.5 and 3 million. kr today – just to get into the profession. It is with Sandberg this development that he has shot speed because – without the success of Stortinget – he has removed restrictions on the movement of dishes between boats and states. This has led us into a situation where a dozen families control over half of all dishes for fish – taste it. This undermines the objective of the Act of Participation for active fishermen to fish and the Marine Resource Act for the benefit of coastal communities. What characterizes development is that it is out of control, without political control. Neither the government nor the Storting have any control over how the structure of fisheries develops. No one knows what Norwegian fishing will look like in 10-20 years. We've thrown away our power and left it to the market. It has been said that the market is a good server, but a bad master. In the fisheries policy, the market has become the master, and not without the Stortinget responding. The size has responded to this development in several ways. Let me just turn the time back quickly to March-April this year, when we deal with the maritime industry message. Then one of the consensual committees said, ‘The Committee considers that the implementation of amendments relating to structuring should await the work of the Eidesen Committee in order to achieve an overall approach to structural policy, thereby making it clear what the impact of these changes will be.’ There was a clear message from Stortinget. In the case of instructions just before the summer, the Committee, also at the time of consultation, expressed the following: ‘The Committee believes that the Norwegian Fisheries Teams’ input better captures the attention of smaller fishing vessels while at the same time providing a certain opening for movement between the different size groups within the coastal fleet.’ Sandberg has not followed up on the Storting reminder at all. The Committee further stated that it was still in agreement: ‘The Committee points out that the Storting will carry out a comprehensive treatment of structural issues in the fishing fleet as part of the follow-up to the government expert selection to determine what the quota system for the fishing fleet should be in the future.’ It's about the so-called Eidesen Selection, which we're waiting for. What should the Stortinge do in this situation, when we have a minister who then runs until those degrees solo without back coverage from the Stortinge and smoothly overlooks our decisions and remarks? Should the Storting just let it go, just let the Minister for Fisheries manage the Norwegian fisheries policy alone? No, I think I'm constitutionally wrong. The Minister of Fisheries himself has seen the Storting in an absolutely impossible situation, where we only have one thing to do. For this reason, SV today proposes full freezing in the marketing of quotas and coastal fishing fleet dishes until we have a full review of the system, until we have been given some control over what is happening. The greatness must simply take power back – the power that we have never given up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3052	There is a broad consensus in this debate that Norway is a society of small differences. We have an active state, we have shared health services and education, we have strong trade unions and a social security network, which is essential for the prosperity and security of all citizens. Together with a well-developed, well-developed tripartite collaboration, it forms the basis for what we refer to as the Norwegian model of society. It has contributed to a unique combination of social mobility, security and a highly adaptable business and society. But what's amazing is that it's presented as if this is a kind of natural law, which has come to us by itself. That's not right. This is a result of a long-term, political conscious work in which we have made some choices, because we want to have it like that. For the Workers' Party, it is absolutely central to building on this Norwegian model. It has served us well. Under the Stoltenberg government, 360 000 new jobs were created, most of them in the private sector. Now the government challenges this model, the model that is the foundation of successful conversion. The government has believed that significant tax cuts for those who have the most of them would provide more jobs. The results are missing. Hardly new jobs are created here in the country, and the few new ones that are being created come into the public sector. However, the government is right that we are facing new changes and new major shifts in Norwegian society. One of the major changes that will meet us in the future is related to digitisation. It will come in a strong and clear way in the transport sector as well. This will mean that we will have to fundamentally change the way we view transport, and it will change society: self-driving vehicles, sharing traffic information and sharing economies. This transformation will represent enormous opportunities, but for some people also a threat – a challenge. We want to streamline and automate many tasks that are currently being carried out by people. For many people – many tens of thousands of people, maybe – it will be a challenge. Is my job going to pass? Will self-driving cars, T-Bahn and trains take over my job? Will Uber replace the taxi industry? These changes – and many changes – need to be met with a clear plan and strategy. How are we going to make the best use of digitisation for the community? How do we meet the obvious challenges this will have for the individual employee? Here there is no strategy or will to think long-term from this government. Political leadership is showing direction. The government corresponds to referring to ideology – it's a market for the sake of the market itself. We see that in this debate. When we address the question of the 139 000 actually unemployed people we have in this country, we are accused of working with black paint and meeting with rhetorical exercises about how this unemployment is distributed in this country. This is about the integrity of the individual, man's dignity in taking care of himself, caring for himself and his family. This is not a rhetorical exercise – you cannot write it off with it. If we are to succeed in demanding changes, we must mobilise the community and tripartite cooperation. The government doesn't. Instead, the government challenges the Norwegian model. The government is pursuing a policy for more people in temporary employment and thus major differences. Lack of efforts to prevent social dumping, not least in the transport sector, leads to greater inequalities in the labour market. The Minister of Finance is systematically working to weaken the organised working life. It weakens the Norwegian model, and when we weaken the Norwegian model, the inequalities also increase. Uncertainty in work and insecurity in work weakens the quality of life, and there is an important reason for increased inequality. Increased inequality weakens our community. The second major challenge is the climate. The transport sector accounts for about one third of domestic emissions, and if we are to reach our international obligations under the Paris Agreement, according to the former Council of State Sundtoft has to take dramatic action. We heard a transport minister earlier here today who managed to talk for 5 minutes about challenges in the transport sector without mentioning the climate challenge. There are no dramatic instruments, no powerful instruments here. So far, the government has not been able to find any tools or initiatives for a green shift in the transport sector. There are no new solutions. In the Labour Party, we have promoted a wide range of proposals for measures that will accelerate the completely necessary conversion. Not later than this, we have tabled 45 proposals for amendments. This shows that the initiative lies in the Stortinget, it is not with this government. I expect the government now to look forward, be able to look forward and come back to the Grand Duchy through the National Transport Plan and address both the challenges of digitisation, the opportunities that lie there, and the climate challenges. The conversion we're facing, we're doing the best we can together. The government is weakening the community. That's why we have to get a new government next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3076	I'm getting a little tired of this debate. The Labour Party has no new policy to join us here today. They sing the same song over and over again – creating few new jobs, especially in the private sector. Then I can make a happy announcement: Aker Solutions and Aibel have won a contract of up to 1 billion. kr today, in the Dvalin field. Norway is doing well, but the Labour Party is stalling, because they are afraid that the Right Party and the Advance Party may continue to sit in government. The world cannot afford to let millions of children grow up without having learned skills that ensure their job opportunities and a safe future, said the Prime Minister when she handed over the report on funding educational opportunities to the UN Secretary-General a few weeks ago. It is Norway and our Prime Minister sitting in the driver's seat to achieve the UN's sustainability target No. 4, on education. The world has agreed on sustainability objectives, and objective No. 4 is quality training for all children by 2030. Our government "walks the talk". In fact, the government's intention to double the aid for education during this major period is now being pursued. The government is proposing an increase for 2017, and with this budget, we will have increased aid for education from SEK 1.7 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 3,4 billion. kr in 2017 – not to forget that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is telling us today that the draft budget comes in 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. Our government is actively working to combat poverty and increasing disparities — both at home and outside. The most important key to getting work is knowledge, whether you live north of Fredrikstad or south of Sahara. Therefore, knowledge is one of the government's main efforts, and therefore there is also a strong commitment to vocational training within the draft budget. It shall contribute to the employment and industrial development of the large youth coals entering the labour market, inter alia. in sub-Saharan Africa in the coming years. Yes, Norway has a moral obligation to fight injustice and poverty. One of the world’s greatest injustices is the lack of access to health services. Therefore, this field too will continue to have our attention. Both education for all and access to health care are important premises for achieving development. The bombing of hospitals in Syria, where 800 medical assistants have lost their lives since the conflict started, is a grotesque attack. Today it is one year since the bombing of Legs Without Borders Hospital in Afghanistan. It is unacceptable to bomb civilians, children and hospitals, and they show no humanity. Even the international law of war is not followed by the parties in Syria. The conflict in Syria has created the greatest refugee crisis in our time. The need for humanitarian aid has increased dramatically in recent years. That is why the government has increased humanitarian aid by 50 pst. since 2013. Here too, education is important for us, and therefore significant proportions are allocated to education for children and young people in crisis and conflict areas. An important part of the increase in humanitarian aid is aimed at helping the Syrian population and the refugees in neighbouring countries. The Prime Minister took the initiative that Norway was the host of the London donor country conference in February 2016, which brought in a total of 11.3 billion. dollars to Syria from the world community, most of which have ever entered a donor conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3094	Another issue that lies at my heart, and I am proud that my government delivers, is the action plan for women's rights and equality in foreign and development policy. Realising women's human rights is an objective in itself and a driving force for democracy, sustainable development, poverty eradication, stability and lasting peace. Norway has legitimacy in this area, and the government uses our political capital, our experience and knowledge to promote women's rights. The entire Norwegian external service is now committed to strengthening women’s rights. Women's rights are a natural human right, and Norway performs its international human rights obligations very well. Several of the UN conventions, including the Children’s Convention, have been made Norwegian law prior to other legislation. Norway is a party to most of the UN Conventions on Human Rights, and the government is actively working to strengthen the implementation of human rights both nationally and internationally. Norway is and must be a central supporter of the work on human rights in the UN, political and economic. Our government therefore presented in 2014 the first 25-year human rights report addressed in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3097	Never before has more new road been built than now. We are now spending more resources on infrastructure construction than the national transport plan provides. The progress party went to the choice of more road construction. We would also have a faster and more complete expansion of our highways. The road transport company Nye Weier AS assures us exactly this. The road transport company is now undertaking comprehensive development projects on E18, E6 and E39. The state road service needs competition. They need competition to think new, see where you can save money to build a better and more holistic safe path. The establishment of the road company provides a new dynamic in Norwegian road construction. For the Advancement Party, it is important that we get the most new, secure, non-returnable way for the money. We're going to use the same standard requirements for our new roads as our neighbours use. We need a new non-meeting highway for the money we invest, which will improve security. We believe that the speed limits on Norwegian roads must reflect the road standard better. Should more people respect the speed limits, such a reality orientation is also absolutely necessary. We have now established a speed limit of 110 km/h on our best roads, as an intermediate station for a new target of 130 km/h. The Danish have it, with good results. We want to establish a high-speed road network that connects the parts of the country. We want the national highway plan back, the one that was created, to be put in a drawer once in the 1960s. Effective high-speed roads are important for a scattered country, so that we can have business throughout the country and facilitate good living environments outside the big cities. This will be important for the Progress Party in the forthcoming national transport plan. The railway reform will provide us with a more efficient development of rail infrastructure, where we are releasing all the good forces to develop a train offer for the benefit of customers. As important as building new ones is taking good care of all the infrastructure we have. Both roads and railways have expired in Norway over several government periods. Under the red-green government, the maintenance of both road and rail increased every year by the years of government. We're reducing the maintenance run. For the railway, this means better punctuality and less disruption of operation. For roads, this means improving road safety and reducing vehicle wear and tear. The most important thing we can do for road safety is improve road standards and road quality. The maintenance run must be removed, and we must ensure that our infrastructure is maintained in a stable and good quality. This is an important part of the work on the forthcoming national transport plan, and we will have a strategy to get rid of the maintenance set-aside. There will be no more road or better maintenance if you do not invest more money. The government spends a lot of resources on transport infrastructure, and the Progress Party will spend even more money in the coming years. This is why this government is spending more money — building the country and stimulating more jobs. Party leader Jonas Gahr Støre said earlier today that the Workers' Party will spend less money in general – do more and spend less. This is not entirely related in the rail and road sectors. If you are to use less on transportation, the poorer road standard means less safety, poor maintenance and delayed trains. That's the last thing this country needs. This is something we unfortunately have a long experience with from the Workers' Party in government. For the country and for ordinary people's transport everyday it will be almost a disaster. That's why we don't need a new piece of work if you're going to reverse all the good that's going on to build more. If you're going to put reforms on hold, think, go back to old paces and think that the solution to everyday problems of people and businesses is to increase taxes, build less and make it harder for people to drive cars, make it difficult to transport goods and provide services, we don't need a new government next year. The best thing we can do is keep going at the rate we have now. No business and no one I know who drives a car or transports goods or provides services, asks for higher taxes and taxes, asks that it be more difficult to drive a car or deliver goods, or that one should make it more expensive to drive goods. No one I have met, has asked for it – it is only the Workers' Party I hear ask for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3122	The free movement of capital across borders and the deregulation of the financial sector, e.g.: what happened in the United States when one took away the Glass-Steagall Act, provided the basis for the financial crisis. It led to a huge government debt when the countries took over a lot of the bank debt, and it continues with a negative interest rate in the national banks. It's going to create problems in the longer term. Now Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest bank, is in trouble. They've been fined by the U.S. Department of Justice for about 200 billion dollars. kr. They are enormously exposed in sales of structured loan products, where the real side of the product does not match the mortgage value, and they are sitting on a mountain of derivatives, estimated at 42 trillion dollars, plus Germany's GDP, which is at 3.3 trillion dollars, or the EU's GDP, which is at 16.3 trillion dollars. They have a weak equity. The German head of state, Merkel, has said that the German state will not save Deutsche Bank. What will happen if she keeps her word? Is it going to be 'big scared' or is it going to be a gradual deterioration of people most of their lives? Whatever it is, there are at least major changes, and it is going to have major consequences for Norway, which is a small, extroverted economy. Norway has to prepare itself. The government talks about change and reform. The leader of the Labour Party says that one must have a different direction for the country, Norway is no longer an exception. I totally agree. What do we have to do? We need reforms, yes, we need reforms. We must have reforms that mean respect for both roots and wings, root fixing and innovation, but one must have a compass in the changes and the changes that you are going to make. Can we, for example: continue to give full employment to loan-funded private consumption? Today's debt level is two and a half times the gross income, and it is a huge challenge when debt cannot increase, at least not more than the wage growth in the future, to ensure full employment in Norway. We have too much commodity sales in Norway; we have too little processing of goods; we have too little profitability through the long value chains by producing and processing renewable natural resources. We need to take action, we need to break down business neutrality, we need a strategic industrial policy that addresses what is Norway's ability to do based on knowledge, tradition and raw materials. The EEA Agreement, with the free movement of labour, leads to a pressure on the labour market that reduces the level of homogeneity. We have the free movement of capital, which leads to a cost level of capital in Norway that is completely wrong given the Norwegian situation. We get so easy access to capital that we get housing bubbles, with the consequences that it leads to over time. Obviously, the EEA Agreement must be terminated. We have a system of education where critical sense, thinking seas and taking responsibility is not very thoughtful, but where there is a very focus on characters. But as I've learned from my good colleague from the right of the work committee: it's far too little focus on having a character. We have a systematic centralization of power from the government, from the Right Party and the Advance Party, which leads – of course – to a centralization of activity. When one centralizes power, it gets a centralization of activity. When a centralizes activity, a shrinkage of the country. That's completely wrong. It's completely wrong when it's decentralization that serves the people's interests. It's a decentralisation that gives an overview, and it gives the opportunity to attract bills on the entire country's possibilities, which are future. Back to baseline: the international financial sector is in trouble. It's in trouble, it's in much greater trouble than what's being debated in this room. It will be more serious, and it will have major consequences. Therefore, Norway must now put the real economy ahead of the financial economy. It is an appeal that we now have an overall political debate on what is happening internationally, what consequences it will have for Norway, and how we are going to prepare for it, so that we can produce so that we have thorough jobs in Norway, and that we have a political leadership to deal with it, and that we get it done. Let's get the options from the blue, the red and the green parties in the Norwegian debate so that we can discuss what paths we are facing, and then present it to people in elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3139	The result of Colombia's referendum on the peace agreement with the Farc guerrilla was disappointing, but the hope of peace has not been extinguished. Discussions continue, Norwegian organisers participate, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs – that is good. Norwegian efforts in peace and reconciliation processes are a very important part of Norwegian foreign policy. Myanmar, Sri Lanka, our initiative towards moderate parts of the Taliban in Afghanistan, Israel and Palestine shows that we have not always succeeded. We often fail, but when we succeed, it has enormous significance for the conflicts in which we contribute. There is no automatic link between increased insecurity in the world and Norway having a more vague or a cautious line in foreign policy. On the contrary, I believe that a more insecure world must demand a foreign policy that is motivated by the courage and will to go new ways. Unfortunately, today's government has cut the appropriations for peace and reconciliation, and my impression is that the will to engage in complicated political situations has diminished. Our efforts can be of great importance. The hope of peace is still alive in Colombia. It is a pleasure that the government has announced that it is in the state budget, which is now being presented, for 1 pst. of gross national income for development aid. I therefore believe that there is finally a basis for a settlement in Stortinget of 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. The Workers' Party has promoted this proposal in the past, but has been defeated by the government parties and the supporting parties. Perhaps we can now have a majority in favour of this proposal. In that case, we will have to pay attention to what is important – the device and the effectiveness of development assistance. For the government it must be a cross-reference that the most thought-out strategy paper for Norwegian development policy was presented to the Stortinget recently, but not by the government itself. It was presented as a shadow message from the Christian People's Party on development policy. Unfortunately, we no longer have our own Minister of Development, but in this session, hopefully we will have a broad and comprehensive discussion on development policy in the light of the shadow message that has been presented. The government finally put forward its proposal for a new long-term defence plan. Unfortunately, the plan is not complete. Important road choices and investments for the Army and the Home Office have been pushed out in time in their own land estate. The long-term plan is intended to deal with different areas of defence in the context. Nevertheless, we must make a real effort to find out what can unite us in security and defence policy. But the sustainability of the government's plan depends on one thing: Will there be money already in 2017? Or is this a plan that others are going to fulfill? It's very little convincing to make an ambitious plan if you're not willing to pay for it in the first year. Our defence needs both predictability and realistic frameworks. The credibility of the plan will depend on the fact that there will be money in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3153	At this stage of this year's throne debate, I believe I can make a few points. Firstly, there is probably no point in continuing to ask the Workers' Party for clarification and concrete figures as to what all of their promises will cost the individual resident in increased taxes if they come to power. They're not answering. Either they don't know it, or the sum is so high that they don't want to talk about it. Everything indicates that that's the last thing that's happened. Moreover, since it is so popular to bring together the policy between two perms at the moment: it will be a rather thick book if we bring together all the good measures that the sitting government has taken, and as the Workers' Party now announces, their idea is, as they would have started if they had continued in government three years ago – measures they did not initiate for eight years with majority government. We would also like to thank you for recognising the good ideas that are now being introduced. A growing period is fast, especially when we have a government that is consistently willing to go through policy areas to see if action and resources are accurate. It's a demanding job. It requires investigations and dialogue with those concerned. It requires a government that dares to make important choices, re-priorities and establish new and better bets. It's good to see the results that are now coming from this work. The government makes it easier for the individual to have contact with the public. The government simplifies the bureaucracy of volunteering and organisational life. The government establishes new arrangements as an incentive for those who provide something extra in the organisational life. The government establishes mechanisms that invite more people to contribute, thereby increasing efforts beyond the government's own increases. By the way, this targeted and successful approach to increasing the overall resource for lifting voluntary, cultural and talent development is one of the things the Workers' Party does not boast of. No, on the contrary, they think it is completely wrong that we get more money for the actors in this way. They want to go back to where they have always been: public money is better than other money, those who do not maintain and develop themselves are going to get extra money, and otherwise funding is going to be done as evenly as possible with public money. They think the main thing is how much of the total budget goes, for example. to culture, not if more money can be provided through cooperation. They will not have a project such as Talent Norway, a successful fissure layer that has created a historic boost and good help for cultural workers in the phase where help is needed to move forward and become visible in a tough labour market. Now we see Norwegian performers being lifted up in theatre, dance, music and prose. It's a good choice for the individual exerciser. That's good inspiration for all those who want to get there, it gives inspiration and recruitment. I am pleased and proud of the choices the government has made through these efforts. So I hear that today in the Chamber a story is being told that equality is going back strongly under this government. It's obviously based on the fact that by choosing solutions other than the red-green ideological choices, it goes wrong. The Tritebergstuen believes the government is in favour of the people. Her challenge is that both the Prime Minister's popularity and party measurements say something else. For this government, it is important to make arrangements for citizens that facilitate increased equality, and not least that there are solutions that take place in everyday life more than in appeals in the gender equality debate. The fact is that fewer women work part-time today than when we took over the government power in 2013, that the share of cash support children goes down, and that the proportion of children in kindergarten is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3167	«Real solutions to real problems for real people» is Erna's admonition to us in the Right in all our political work. That means to prioritize then. That's what we're going to do. It means changes to capture changes in society. It means new ways of aligning resources, that means simplification, that means action that takes place in acute situations. It means a solid commitment to knowledge that equips us for new challenges, and Norway as a solid player in the development of future solutions. It's tough and demanding, but we have our backs to carry it!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3170	Fear policy is in good shape for the time being. Democracies, opportunists and political movements from the political outer edges are emerging in many countries of the West. By playing on the fear of the population, they have been closed to winning a referendum against refugees in Hungary, to notify the United Kingdom out of the EU and to nominate Donald Trump as Presidential Candidate. These movements do not have that much in common, but they are closely linked, and that is the resistance to globalisation. That's what really gives cause for concern, because the enormous progress we've seen in the world since the Second World War is now in real danger of stopping. The development of wealth is simply a commercial one. Exports of goods as part of global gross domestic product increased from 8 pst. from 1950 to 20 p.m. at the turn of the millennium. This export-driven growth has led hundreds of millions of people out of poverty in countries like China, and it has transformed countries such as South Korea and Ireland — and indeed in Norway, which has a very open and export-driven economy. Having an open and fair world trade is most in our national interest. In addition to the benefits derived from the free flow of goods, the world has also benefited from a relatively open migration policy. The fact that people can search closed across borders has helped to lift them out of poverty. It contributes positively to the economy of the host country, and most also send significant values to their old homeland. The fact that the liberal credo of open borders has been so dominant in Western politics over many years has been the main reason why we have managed to smooth out economic differences in the world and to raise the standard of living for insanely many people. The challenge of what we now see is that it also affects more moderate political forces. Resistance to trade agreements has now been so great that there is serious doubt about the ratification of the TPP, a trade agreement that could contribute to enormous value creation and strengthening, inter alia, of TPP. workers’ rights in Southeast Asia, and there is growing doubt that there will be something of TTIP, a planned trade agreement between the EU and the United States, which could strengthen the transatlantic alliances and set high standards for trade and investment, which the rest of the world would also have to comply with. It may be very tempting to impose penalties on economic competitors under the cover of taking care of their own people, but what those who work against globalisation, often forget, is that they are their own citizens, not least the poorest of their own citizens, who will lose if we get a more closed value. It was probably fine when in 2009 the United States dropped the penalty on Chinese tyres so that they could protect 1 200 American workplaces, but the result was that for every workplace a fear cost the U.S. consumer approx. Seven million. SEK in additional expenses. Then globalisation has clear challenges. Large multinationals organize themselves so that they barely pay taxes where values are created. Workers are being pressured by unfair competition from countries that do not comply with acceptable standards, and climate change emissions are known to have no borders. But the solution to those challenges is not to reset time. In the Left, we are optimists on behalf of future, optimists on behalf of technology and not least on behalf of human creativity in meeting new challenges and opportunities. When businesses, human beings and climate change no longer know national boundaries, politics cannot do that either. Therefore, Norway must have a forward-facing position. We need to engage in negotiations on freer trade in services, so that we can work for standards for, among other things. workers and the environment that we can acknowledge. We must engage in the pan-European work that is now in progress to ensure a common refugee policy, so that all our neighbouring countries can contribute to the solidarity mission of accepting people who are fleeing from war and conflict. We also need to engage by cutting global greenhouse gas emissions both by being active out there and not least through active policies here at home. Faced with political trends that have seen the progress we have experienced, in real danger at all, Norway's role must be to stand up for peaceful international cooperation, for trade across borders and for a migration policy that ensures both economic growth and a fundamental humanitarian principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3189	I see very clearly when I sit and listen to all this, that there is a historical thread in this debate. The first is that the representatives of the right-wing parties are very systematically trying to create the impression, as they have done in all the years since World War II, that the Norwegian Workers' Party is opposed to change and innovation. There is no political force in Norway that has contributed more to business development and innovation in Norwegian society than Norwegian social democracy and Norwegian trade union movement. It is those who have been the engine, the architect in the development of Norwegian working life, and who have contributed to the employment rate in Norway that surpasses all other European countries. Is it because we have carried the Right prescription – on tax relief and weaker welfare societies and weaker systems within the Working Environment Act? No, it's because we haven't. When I hear the speeches of these new state councils, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Labour, I use the word that there is reason to use: they are historyless. They're historyless. They do not respect the fact that it is the whole of society that provides the basis for employment and development. What do the Right Representatives in this Chamber think is the reason why the international economy flows into Norwegian society and wants to invest here? It is because it is a stable society of high education, good health and a flexible business life, because we have a stable welfare state, and because the Labour Party representatives in government or elsewhere have not proposed to cut the welfare regimes that allow people to feel secure – as the current Minister of Labour has done. That shouldn't happen in a welfare society. And then they're going to come to this pulpit and teach the Workers' Party what is the basis for prosperity development in Norway. It's historyless. But that's what the Right People have been driving at all these years. It's right after the book. But they have no answer to what is another main question in this debate: why did we manage to establish 350 000 jobs and the 25 000? Why isn't that answered? It's not useful to bring the oil price in all contexts. It's because we're using society's resources to just take responsibility for employment and not leave it to the so-called "nutritional neutrality" and the fact that society is not going to deal with these issues. This is a historical dimension that is absolutely essential to be clear, and which is an important distinction, of course, in the relationship between the Workers' Party and the Right. It repeats itself and repeats itself, but it lies there, and that's exactly why there are two different political parties. So to another point: both the leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, and now the mindy and – I mean this properly – the good representative from Nordfjord has made two thoughtful contributions. And this is not sarcastic – no, it's not sarcastic. They address a political tradition that Right has represented and that is based on the social liberal understanding of society. That's good. They say we don't have to build social development on fear. Everyone must agree on that. But then I ask Skei Grande and Rotevatn: who is responsible for the political cultural development of the Norwegian debate? It's the Progress Party. They're just a lot of their argument about stigmatizing and talking about other people like they're someone other than us. Then we come to the great paradox – through the President, addressed to Rotevatn: Why do you support such a party in government? When you make such good contributions in the hall – Skei Grande also did that and carried out this strong tradition, considering the history of the Left in Norwegian politics – this is incomprehensible to me, but I would like to have it explained, if possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3199	In any case, there is a historical distinction between the Right Party and the Labour Party in the definition of who creates jobs. Who creates jobs in the private sector? It's not the Right Party or the Workers' Party that does, it's the business that does. It is people who put private capital — their own energy — into the effort to create jobs and to create values. That understanding has separated the Workers' Party and the Right at least in the years I have existed. In political vocabulary, the term ‘taxilet’ is often used synonymously with cash into the private account of already rich people. Previous speech is one of the foremost defenders of that thesis. There is a narrow approach to the tax debate, but above all there is a poor approach to the concept of ‘active enterprise policy’. And the concept of active enterprise policy has appointed the opposition to be the primary defender of. This government has delivered 18 billion. kr in tax reliefs and reduced taxes since it took over in 2013. These have been delivered as a reduction in corporate taxation, which means that Norwegian enterprises – which all politicians agree on are in a tough competition – can increase capital to meet competition, relocate and run development projects. These have been provided as a reduction in taxes on wealth so that companies that lose the market base will in the future avoid taxes on assets that do not generate values at present. These have been delivered to the extension of the TAX FUNN scheme, which provides companies with a better framework for self-development in strong competition in a global market. I visited the company Jaro AS in Alta. They produce concrete elements for construction with the whole of North Norway as a market. They've spent two million. kr to a logistical project which made production more efficient and provided safety when competing for tenders. The project has triggered DKK 400,000 in tax relief for the company, i.e. a significant contribution to more, safer and more profitable jobs. In the debate on centralisation, I want to add things to build robust, decentralised housing as a profitable business – it's building blocks, it's. Industry-friendly tax policies are active industrial policies. It is a little difficult to interpret the Workers' Party in the debate on tax laws. They might have to decide. We're making amends to the company tax of $6 billion. kr. The Workers' Party refers to a cut in company tax on its own website. They say that it is ‘more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs’, and that it ‘will contribute to increasing investment in Norwegian business and securing Norwegian jobs’. Why is it on the Workers' Party's own website that tax legislation ensures jobs, while the Labour Party in Stortinget believes that it does not? We in the right know that this works. Trust in business is also an active tax policy. Measured against countries with which we compete, Norway has cut the level of research into industry. We also cut low when measured by the ability to commercialise research. In the right, we are ambitious on behalf of the research nation Norway. We have a expectation that 3 pst. of GDP goes to research in 2030, and we expect two-thirds of this to be industry research. To move towards this goal, we have strengthened the commitment to nutrient research by 2.4 billion. kr. Our meetings with the business community today show that programs like SkattenFUNN, User-initiated innovation arenas and the new business start-ups mean a difference. It creates jobs. Did I hear of a government that was only concerned with tax havens to the rich? In conclusion, I have a comment to make to Mr Kolberg in terms of fear and his attempt to point to the Progress Party as the one who bears the fear of the political arena. When I led a campaign before the big elections in 2009, one day I saw a headline from Oslo where Jan Bøhler was out and said he understood them as fearsome immigration. He understood the fear of immigration, the system was not fully in place, and he could understand parts of the criticism that came from the Progress Party. Four days passed, and I could hear the head of the Finnmark Workers' Party with the same rhetoric – she understood the fear of the Sami and understood that the inhabitants could become anxious when one saw the debate around the Sami. It's actually the way the Workers' Party uses every opportunity to jump on a debate if fear can also be used as a tool to sank votes. It is with respect to report not correctly that the Progress Party is the ones who carry on that fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3224	The fight for crime victims has always been very important for the Progress Party. One of the things I'm most proud of so far in this parliamentary term is the removal of the limitation period in criminal cases of killing and serious assault. The Progress Party has fought for over ten years and is an important cause for extremely many victims of violence. Nevertheless, we have experienced a constant setback when we have made proposals to remove this deadline. But we got it done, it was adopted. We also know that assaults often lead to traumas, which may take several decades before a victim manages to collect enough thoughts to go to the review. The fact that the case earlier could end with a decree, which expired, was a new infringement against the victim, but this time by the state. This strengthening of the victims' legal certainty has been incredibly important for the Progress Party, and I am pleased that during this period we felt that almost a total increase was agreed. During this period we have also seen a powerful Minister of Justice who has cut through the office. The introduction of a new penal code has finally beenimplemented, a law of individual instances claimed that it could not beimplemented until 2021–16 years after the law was passed. But now the new law has been implemented, and the penal framework for violence in close relations has increased from 6 to 15 years. This is an important victory, and I'm glad we've got this done. There are not just two-legged victims of violence who are entitled to security and security. Animals also have requirements for safety and dignity. I am therefore very pleased that, through our government participation with the Right and through good cooperation with our supporting parties, we finally have a pilot scheme with animal police – so far in two police districts, but the goal must be to get this nationwide. We're on it. Proposals on this were also voted down in the past. Now it's passed. It is illustrative that the animal police's first attack was a perpetrator who both abused animals and fantasized about mistreating children, and kept child pornography. This is, unfortunately, illustrative of this type of crime. The research is clear that people who commit violence against animals often commit violence against people later. That is why I hope for further support, so that we can get the animal police system nationwide. The government has made sure that the border control has been considerably strengthened. The number of customs officers increased by a total of 20 pst. only in the current year. Continuous checks are now being carried out on Svinesund and Ørje, which are two of the three most trafficked border crossing points. All border crossings that do not have day-to-day staffing will now be video-monitored. A dedicated customs intelligence centre is set up, and cooperation with the police has improved considerably. In short, the limits have become safer. The government has also launched a reform that will help to make the streets much safer. The reform is supported by a historic police effort. When this period of government is over, we're going to employ over 1 300 new policemen. This is a crucial commitment if we are to achieve the target of two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants by 2020. In the next elections, we will be able to achieve this goal, in good time before 2020. If we keep this together with a reinforced bombing group, reinforced emergency squad, new police helicopters coming, and armored police cars in every police district, the police are now much better equipped to face a potential terrorist attack. We also clearly see the whole chain of criminal proceedings. The government's offensive commitment to new positions in the Public Prosecutor's Office has been referred to by the chief of police lawyers as the lifting of time. The Minister of Justice and the Government have also taken action to ensure that reports by a known perpetrator cannot be filed; these matters must be investigated. We have also been very concerned that at the government change last election we experienced that we had overcrowded prisons – 98 p.m. Coverage, 1 200 people in queue. Letting the criminals go free wasn't an option. The government has provided more new prison sites. We have arranged for an agreement with the Netherlands that will shortly contribute to the history of the prison queue. This, in conjunction with the construction of new prison sites in Norway, will help to ensure that ‘prison queues’ will not be a word in Norwegian vocabulary in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3245	Last Saturday we saw that the Prime Minister took the Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Municipal Council on boxing to celebrate that pro boxing has been permitted in Norway, and it was part of a celebration that has stretched over many days, with a lot of soft cake. It is almost touching to see the enthusiasm, as we have also seen in matters relating to Segway and liquorice pipes. Today, we have also seen and heard a committed Right, as we know them, with deep indignation at what the Right parliamentary leader calls ‘the high tax burden in Norway’ – for fear that the richest of the country will have to contribute more in order to create growth and jobs throughout the country, to equip health services and care for the future and to invest in the school, so that all young people have equal opportunities to use their abilities and their potential. And the Right has today confirmed that tax cuts to the richest are their heartache. It's a useful clarification. For the Workers' Party, work, school and health are the most important. Norway has a good starting point, but the uncertainty for the future is greater than before, and then we have to ask the question: does the government prioritise the most important issues, do they make the right choices, use the Community's resources in a forward-looking way? Unfortunately, the answer is no. The consequences of government policies are greater differences between people and between different parts of the country. In my county, Finnmark, the combination of tax cuts, centralisation policies and more market governance is very unfortunate. While the government makes a new record in the number of bureaucrats, Finnmark feels that one stage after another is centralised, and that workplaces, the environment of competence and decisions are being moved out of the state. When the Office for the Compensation of Victims in Vardø was not cut by 10 million. Last year's harvest, it was not because of the Party of Advancement that promoted that proposal; it was in spite of the Party of Advancement and the Government. And it's great that the Progress Party wants a nationwide animal police force, but we also want a nationwide police force! And when the police districts have been cut by 400 million. DKK in two years, it also goes beyond the police in Finnmark and the other parts of District Norway. The municipalities, and not least the county council, are underfunded. For some people, tax cuts are to be paid to the government — and they are paid by high school students in the state that strives most with implementation. Because that's where it has to be cut. The taxes are also paid by those who depend on the boat and ferry in their daily lives, and by seafood importers, who depend on a better route to get their goods sent out. The government is still well aware of the fact that their tax cuts contribute to new jobs, simply because they do not exist. But it is an undeniable fact that when more money goes to tax cuts, there is less money to develop school and health and county transport services for the future. There is probably no area of society that is excluded from government's centralisation policy. Prior to the 2013 elections, the Right and Advance Party promised to implement a number of concrete transport projects in Finnmark. Thursday is the last chance to deliver, and I expect the election vows to be honoured. We also look at centralisation in the field of culture. The Sameting budget has been cut for several years in a row, and not only has the Cultural Promise been abandoned, but several of the public crowns also follow private donors – and the Reichs most do not live in Nord-Trøndelag or in Finnmark. So while the Minister of Culture is fighting for the poor condition of proboscis in Norway, the waiting list for new cultural projects is becoming longer and longer. There is Saemien Sijte on Snåsa, Beaivvá's Sami theatre, Dansearena north and the women's museum in Vadsø. All these projects have in common that they do not substantially attract commercial revenues through television advertising or private sponsors. That's why we need a cultural policy, a new government and a new Minister of Culture who is as concerned about culture and about the opportunities for development of cultural life throughout the country as about professionalization. Finnmark is the state of opportunity, and now we need a government that sees it, and that will play on teams to make use of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3267	When the Hospital of Eastfold decided to make operations more efficient, they learned from other large enterprises, both private and public. Without increasing appropriations, detoxification of employees or introducing recruitment standards, the number of gastro-surgical interventions doubled and is currently one of the most effective surgical departments in the country. They work smarter and use resources better. Since 2013, the government of Solberg has given 18 billion. kr in tax bill. At the same time, hospital queues have been reduced by 56 000 patients and the waiting time for drug treatment has been reduced by 40 pst. If you prioritise correctly and use resources better, there is no contradiction between tax relief and welfare. The Labour Party would like the public sector to be run more expensively and poorly and to finance this by reversing the government's tax havens, but in addition to longer waiting times for ordinary people for health care, the Workers' Party then sends an unknown tax bill to Norwegian business. This rhymes very poorly with the representative Gahr Støre’s contributions earlier today, on the importance of creating enough jobs and safe jobs. Because when Højre's tax policy is attacked, as we just saw, Norwegian jobs are simultaneously being attacked all over the country – companies that have to pay property taxes regardless of whether they go with profits or not, from Stensli Recovery in Brumunddal to Rauma Ullvarefabrik at Røros, Brunvoll within the maritime industry in Møre and Romesdal and Aas Bryggeri in Drammen. The ten percent richest pay about 38.7 pst. of taxes on persons in Norway. If you take away the property tax, they'll still pay 38 pst. Those with the strongest back carry – and must carry – the heaviest, even without taxes on wealth. But the Workers' Party is more willing to break the backs of Norwegian companies throughout the country than to give up the rhetoric about a lot to those who have the most from before. So when the Workers' Party is talking about active industrial policy, Norwegian companies should listen. If they are not mentioned as a direct beneficiary of subsidies, their job must be paid for by the others. Speaking of unknown tax bill: Representative Hadia Tajik promised in Political Quarter today that the Workers' Party would deliver a balanced alternative budget. All the good things are three, for in 2014, the three billion errors were accounted for in the state budget, while last year they just missed out on the containment proposals. So it would be refreshing to get a properly-balanced budget from a party that talks so much about financial accountability. The working party in the government had the largest economic space of some Norwegian government ever had, with a record high oil price and full gas in the economy. Nevertheless, hospital cows increased, and there were 15 000 more poor children with a red-green government to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. And what about safe jobs? According to the SSB, the whole employment growth in the period 2008-2013 fell to non-resident labour force. According to LO’s chief executive, Stein Reegård, the Labour Party boasts of creating jobs has contributed to pushing the Nordics out of the labour market. Two weeks before the government took over in 2013, we could read on the front page of the Business Day that the Norwegian economy was on its way from full gas to half speed. At the same time, our country wrote that ‘Ernna’s new government inherits a decay bomb’, and unemployment was already rising. This was the legacy after eight years of red-green government. Leadership is about starting to do something while you still have room for action. So the previous government did nothing to give Norway and Norwegian business more legs to stand on when they had the opportunity. Why on earth should we believe in them now? When the Right and Advance Party took over in 2013, we had – together with the Left and Christian People's Party – a change agenda from the first day. Despite the halving of oil prices, despite historically high migration, despite the fallout bombs and aftermath: the Solberg government has delivered on all the challenges that have met it, and yet a little more. At the same time, it invests in growth-promoting measures, such as knowledge, research, innovation and transport. This strengthens the competitiveness of businesses and is helping to create more and safer jobs. The latest Norway needs now are reversals of necessary structural reforms and changes, and what I hope Norwegian business knows, and until next year we will make sure that the voters know that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3291	It has been interesting to follow both the census and the debate here today. So far, I think we have confirmed what is quite obviously the Right Strategy for the Time, that the PR advisors have said that it is important that a person erases the differences in politics, just as we see it in the Right proposal for a party programme, that a person tries to voice the disagreement in Norwegian policy. We still hear the expression 'but we all agree on that', but rarely has there been such a disagreement about the realities of politics as they are now. It's striking that the King in the Common Era four times mentioned the Norwegian model, and we're very pleased about that. He said, for example.\t\t You can change ‘Our Norwegian model is coming out into tougher waters in the future.’ But the reality is that it is precisely when it is tough waters that the Norwegian model is at its best. That's when the Norwegian model shows its strength, because we're getting good at switching and meeting common challenges. But what's the challenge today is that Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, ten times in his 2013 national meeting talks, attacked the Norwegian model. So now it's not the crime lakes that are the problem; it's the crew – or to stick to the mariner's language: it's not the challenge, we see trends in mythology, and the captain on the boat lets it happen with constant attacks on the Norwegian model. We see that the economic policy, that fiscal policy, with a tax burden of more, largely, the richest, increases the differences and weakens the funding of the welfare state, but it is perhaps most obvious when we see who gets tax increase: if you live in the city of Reply and work in Larvik – then the government seems to have to pay more tax. Or if you become unemployed and receive termination benefits – then the government seems to have to pay more tax. We see it in the cooperative model, where the social partners are obviously much less heard. A very good example of this was the Working Environment Act, where there was no cooperation between the parties at all, they got the proposal sent to the hearing. We have seen the same thing in employment policy, where the government could provide many good advice from the social partners, as they finally did, when they were forced to change the law of leave after too much time. And we see it in welfare policy. It's cut in the child supplement for disabled, cut in over 1 billion. In the case of people who are unemployed, the allowance is paid for the day-to-day allowance. It is a legislation on permitting which was too late and where the change was too small, and it is cut in action places when the unemployment rate is growing. All of these are examples of the opposite of what we're thinking about with the Norwegian model. The government said in the throne: ‘Society must facilitate migration for individuals through re-schooling, securing income and helping to find a new job.’ That's well said, but it's just that that's not what they're doing. Instead of providing support for retraining, the government refuses to be able to use company internal training as a business cycle tool for a period when many companies are asking for it: Let us train our workers, so that we are even better equipped when the market comes back! We see that in terms of securing income, as I have already mentioned, some of the first government did when it announced an increase in unemployment – and so it was before the oil price fell – to cut the daily allowance for the unemployed. And when it comes to helping find a new job, we've experienced, for the first time in history, a government that announces increased unemployment but at the same time reduces the number of places of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3313	So in the census it's said very well, but the problem is that that's not what's being done. What we see is a government that has learned from its Swedish party colleagues that one needs to be heard a little bit of social democracy in order to be elected, but in the policy that is being implemented, we see the exact opposite. The government flashes to the left, but turns to the right, and it is simply road dangerous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3316	When the bourgeois parties won the elections in 2013, we promised the country a new course. The voters were clear – they had had enough of our dear kids leaving primary school without being able to read and write properly, and they would end up growing further in health cows. These three years of government show that we deliver – for the benefit of the inhabitants of the whole country. The government has tripled the investment in continuing training and now more than 50 000 teachers have the opportunity to continue their training in the next ten years. There are 56 000 fewer in health queues. It means something who's in charge of our country. The Right Party government, with our Prime Minister Erna Solberg in the front line, has also steered the country safely through the challenges we knew would come at some point because of our oil-dependent economy. The oil price is now more than halved since the government took over. Many are affected by unemployment, especially in the south and west, but the government has taken targeted measures to create activity and jobs in the regions and industries most affected by the oil price drop. And now new figures show that it has begun to turn around: the availability is falling, and employers are planning to hire more. The government's overall policy is helping the whole country and the whole population. In my home country, it's going very well, even if you wouldn't believe it when you listen to workers' party people from the north. They continue, unfortunately, with their terror propaganda. There is enormous productivity in industry in the Nordic countries, and new exports for August place Nordland in third place in export revenue. For the first time, the export value was over 3 billion. kr of one month in Northern Ireland, and the highest exports of fish, metals and electrical equipment made up this growth, and the best of all: unemployment rates continue to fall further here. Nordic countries have large sea areas where we can much more combine traditional fisheries and aquaculture with oil and gas extraction, and not least we have a growing travel life. It is noted that the world’s security policy challenges mean that Norway is considered by many to be a safe country to leave. This summer there is a report of an explosion of tourism in the Lofoten and the Vesterålen. Only in Lofoten are 9 000 overnights reported, and this picture can be further reinforced by government policies. The enormous effort that the government has made on transportation is well displayed in my home country. When I now hear about the Nordlandsenden, there are often traffic reports that the E6 is closed due to explosion. It's good, it's built a new and better way, and that's exactly what business needs. The goods are going on the market, people are going to get to and from work, and we have to make it possible for tourists to reach their new, preferred destinations safely. After having increased for several decades, for the first time in 2015, the maintenance set-off was reduced and further now in 2016. It appears around my home country in road construction that the traffic budget has increased by almost 50 pst., from 40 billion. until 60 bn. kr. It is precisely this business that has demanded: better and safer way to transport goods and people, and of course this government prioritises North Norway when the government's share of road appropriations has increased from 14.6 p.m. under the red-green to over 20 pst. Now. I haven't heard a single one from business, big or small, who will be cheering to increase the taxes by at least 10 billion. kr, as it will be with the Labour Party's policy. It's not what business needs to create new jobs. When we hear of new and large numbers of violence and abuse against children also in Northern Ireland, it is important to have a competent police force that can investigate these serious issues effectively, but not least provide a competent environment that can take care of the children affected. With the near-police reform, we are setting up an effective neighbourhood police force with competent professional communities in each district, a police reform that the Labour Party has voted in favour of, but the Central Party is opposed. What's going to happen? The government has so far strengthened the police with over 1,000 posts, and on Thursday, when the state budget is presented, there will be another 300 million. to the police districts for new posts. Last but not least, we have strengthened the follow-up action of children who experience abuse or abuse, and this is further strengthened in the government budget presented on Thursday, including the following: The State Children's House is being allocated another 15 million. kr for next year. I am sending a tribute to our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have helped to raise the focus on this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3331	As the first speaker today, the Labour Party leader Gahr Støre said that people in Europe are angry. They do not have work or only part-time work. The standard of living goes down, and therefore populist parties appear, he claimed. The representative Gahr Støre will do something about that. Gahr Støre forgot something. It is his party colleagues who have run Europe for much of the post-war period and who have created this mind. People are even more angry that the nation states have been deprived of control, and that their own voice is no longer heard. So Gahr Støre is really angry with the angry and also angry with those who have created the anger, in other words, his own social-democratic party friends. The populists on whom Gahr Støre is angry are his former voters – voters who have given up social democracy. They have left Gahr Støre's political friends because Gahr Støre's friends have stopped caring. Gahr Støre's friends are more concerned with the political project. When voters protest and leave Gahr Støre's friends, they are immediately renamed populists. Those who formerly voted in Europe's working parties, but who feel abandoned, are from one year to another going from being social democrats to becoming populists. But Gahr's social-democratic friends don't care. The Social Democrats stigmatize their former voters and call them populists and tell them that they don't understand their own best. That's why we're going to get even more of what they're protesting against -- an anti-people policy to teach the people. And to underline it all, it was interesting to listen to the representative Kolberg who continued in the same track, but with even greater indignation. So it's not this government that's got unemployment up in Europe. It is his own party friends in Europe who have got unemployment up, got welfare down and made people angry – everywhere in Europe the social democrats have steered and told you that only you get even more of what they are against will be fine. That is what Mr Kolberg is defending here. Then I'll talk a little bit about the defense. We are now dealing with the long-term plan of defence, and what the government has presented is the greatest investment in Defence – 165 billion. NOK over 20 years. Defence is most important of all, regardless of economic economic cycle. This government has understood that. It is therefore important when we now sit and negotiate the long-term plan, that we agree on this strengthening of the defence, and that we are not taken by populist victories, but that we are thinking about defence and defence. Regardless of the long-term plan, I want to talk about the strategic challenges we face. Because we can't give everything the same priority, because then we don't do anything enough. All parties have to go in themselves to see what you can prioritize down, including within the Defence. What's not most important of what we're going to bet on in the defense? Now the protests come everywhere against what has been presented by the government. Everyone protests, and everyone is just as angry at the long-term plan. But that's because some people think that the coast is most important, some think that the defence in the north towards Russia is most important, some think that the northern regions are the most important, some think that the migration flow should be stopped, some think the cyber defence is the most important, some think that we should be involved in international operations, some think that the most important thing is that NATO's 28 countries should be defended, but if everything becomes the most important, then we are not able to deliver on the Defense. We have to give priority to what is most important – and that applies to all parties here in the hall. That's why people are angry, because they think about their areas, and they think it's most important. If we are to give equal priority to everything, we can double the defence budget right away, and yet we do not have enough, and it is exactly as former Chief of Defense Dien said that Norway cannot afford to defend its own country. We have to prioritize, and then we have to cooperate. If that's going to be the future, we actually have to prioritize something down and say what's most important. I have to say, however, that I am a little disappointed by some generals and high officers who have now left, who are now protesting. So they have been in responsible positions for many years and have not protested. As soon as they go off, they claim that the defense is in disintegration. Some have claimed that we cannot even defend a city in Oslo. But if you've run the defense for so many years, and a few years later believe that we can't even defend a city in Oslo, you haven't actually done your job. If you have not said that the defense is so bad, and you sit and control, but you find out afterwards, when you travel around and give talks, that you are doing so bad, then I believe that you have not done your job. Finally, I would like to say that the Progress Party has put forward a proposal for an investment fund for material investment, of 100 billion. kr, which will make the return of SEK 2,4 billion. SEK for material investments only. It will strengthen the defence and enable the defence budget to do what it is supposed to do, namely ensure the operation, training and training of our soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3350	We simplify, renew and improve Norway. We're cutting the waiting hours in the health service. We build care with new places while raising quality. We're increasing freedom of choice, and that's the patient's healthcare. However, healthcare is facing significant challenges in the years to come. The number of people over 70 will double. In addition, we see a happy development with new treatment methods that can help more people longer, especially in the case of serious diseases such as cancer. But some of these methods are more costly. This means that Norway needs to spend more money on healthcare in the future. We have allocated more money for patient treatment at hospitals, and we have facilitated a higher rate of patient treatment growth through our three state budgets than the red-greens were adopted over their eight years. But money doesn't solve everything. We also need to keep getting more health out of the money we spend, and to switch healthcare. We have gone in the right direction in the patient’s healthcare with package sequences and free treatment choices. We have removed the ceiling on how many patients the hospitals can treat, and made sure that hospitals are paid better for each patient. The result is that the waiting time goes down both into and into hospitals. 56 000 fewer patients are in line. Only last year, the average waiting time fell by over a week. More people get help. Now all seriously ill patients have a right to their own contact doctor in the hospitals. Hospital trust is record high. It's increased from 65 to 74 pst. The last three years, according to the TNS Gallup confidence barometer. The biggest social inequality in our country is that addicts have an expected life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than the rest of the population. It's an inequality that we can't live with. That is why the government and the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together for a change of pace in the Russian policy. Last year we presented an obliging escalating plan for the drug field, with a strengthening of 2.4 billion. until 2020. The waiting time for drug treatment is reduced by 40 pst., almost a month. Packing processes are now being developed for addicts and mental health. The Workers' Party's commitment to people with mental health challenges is that they should reverse the package processes and deprive patients of the right to free treatment. The health of children and young people lasts for life. That is why we have provided a strong strengthening of health stations and school health services together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. In 2017, municipalities will have 834 million. kr more for this purpose than they had in 2013. Now we are also expanding the offer with psychologists and have arranged for 200 psychologists' works in the municipalities. And we're following the youth health strategy. By 2030, there will be a need for around 22 000–30000 additional places of care for lucky days. This is why, through our older package, we take a greater national responsibility for the capacity and quality of elderly care. So we're going to take half the bill for new nursing homes. The plans of the municipalities in the future show a threefold increase in the number of new places each year. But this is not enough. Therefore, municipalities have to plan for several sites in order to receive support in the future. We are honest with the situation and have for the first time been given transparency about waiting lists for hospitals. It shows that nine out of ten are allowed within 15 days of the decision. The Workers' Party is once again making choices to reverse the government's policies for several hospitals. Then a return to the policy that they themselves admitted after the 2013 elections was too bad for the elderly. So the 2017 elections are about continuing to create the patient’s healthcare with more freedom of choice and power for the patient at the expense of the system, where people who are addicted to drugs and have mental health challenges are given predictable treatment courses, if we are to continue with a strong national responsibility for building up enough capacity and quality of care for the elderly, if we are to continue to give a lift for children and young people’s health – or, as the alternative stands, whether the patient’s healthcare should be reversed, where the consideration of the system and the municipalities will mean more than the consideration of the individual patient and the elderly of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3384	In a number of debates, including this year’s census, the government parties told the Norwegian people that waiting times have fallen into hospitals. That's good, but that's not new. Waiting times have fallen steadily from 2010 to today. We're all going to enjoy that. Then the government parties suddenly talk about waiting lists, which are something quite different, namely, how many patients are going to have planned treatment at our hospitals at any time. That number can vary depending on what is behind the table, for example. that we have introduced new medicines and new treatments. The Minister of Health said that a major reason why waiting lists are shorter is that the government has removed the so-called ceiling on the number of treatments in hospitals. This ceiling is not understood by many, so my question is this: Can the Minister of Health explain what the so-called roof means, what government introduced it, the reason for introducing a roof and when it was actually closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3394	First of all, I do not agree with the Workers' Party's assessment, which they also had in government, that there were more queues, actually was a good news for the patient, as former Health Minister Jonas Gahr Støre said, because it meant that one had received more treatment. Well, over the three years, the Right Party and the Advance Party have been responsible, there has also been a significant increase in treatment provision, but the number of queues is falling. It is also the case that waiting times go down to both hospitals and hospitals. That's also a good news for the patients. In particular, it is important to maintain confidence in a well-funded public health service, where the population feels that being a member of the population and paying its taxes means that a person is also receiving prompt treatment. It is just one of those areas where Norwegian health services do not score well enough in international comparisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3401	Then I think I have to ask again, because the Minister of Health did not answer the question. He keeps coming back to this ceiling on the number of treatments as an important reason why waiting lists or times go down. So once again – my question is: can the Minister of Health explain what the so-called roof means, what government introduced this, the reason for introducing a roof and when it was actually wound up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3408	The roof on the number of patients the hospitals could treat, or the DRG score, functioned in such a way that the Ministry of Health under the red-green government directed the companies according to a measure related to the number of patients to be treated. This meant that one attended the monthly meetings one had with health businesses, if the activity developed so that one began to approach this ceiling. This resulted in restrictions on the ability of hospitals to use their own capacity. In addition, a patient treatment funded at a lower rate than that of this government. This means that now hospitals are getting paid more the more patients they are treating. They're no longer in charge of keeping their activity down. This means that hospitals now have a completely different freedom to find good solutions to reduce waiting time, to treat more patients. It produces results through both significant growth in the number of patients treated [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3415	The Health Directorate recently published a report called Patient Damage in Norway 2015. 50,000 patients were seriously injured while staying in Norwegian hospitals last year. The Health Directorate also believes that half of these patient injuries in Norwegian hospitals could have been prevented. The number of serious injuries increases, you can also read. There are even people who lose their lives. The relatives are left with wounds, abstinence and many unanswered questions. Not least, there is a distrust of whether the hospital has said everything, of the competence of the police and the ability to investigate what has happened, and of the role of the Health Authority, whether they have a complete picture in the matter. The Minister of Health has previously published that he wants a commission of inquiry, and I wonder when the government will come with an independent commission of inquiry for unwanted events, which is laid down in the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3420	It is quite right that there is still too many patients who experience injuries and, in the worst case, death as a result of health defects and deficiencies. This means that the efforts that have been made in this area so far are not sufficient. We need health services to learn even better from the mistakes that are taking place and to use them to improve health care. That is why this year I have given healthcare and hospitals the task of making systematic plans for how to create more transparency, so that employees feel secure that they can give notice if there are conditions that are not well enough related to patient safety and quality. This is very closely related to health, the environment and safety. With regard to the specific issue, the hearing on the NOU is for this above, and I aim to promote a case for the Storting on this spring 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3427	We know that the health of the North is related to social factors such as education and purchasing power. The last thing we need is a health service that reinforces these differences. Over 500,000 Nordics have now signed private health insurance, and payment for private health care increases by 42 pst. from 2013 to 2015. On 14 August 2013, the Danish public health representative Bent Höie said to the business community that the right’s health reform free treatment option would be so good that ‘the private health insurance market disappears’. What has happened is that the market has not disappeared, but he has grown up. The government's question is, What went wrong? Does the Council of State still threaten to increase private investment instead of strengthening public health will minimise the need for health insurance and increase confidence in our healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3432	Yes, I am convinced that all patients with rights in Norway are given the opportunity to make use of the free capacity of private individuals without having to pay from their own pocket or have health insurance, is one of the most important measures we can take to combat a negative development with a two-way sharing of healthcare. Being a member of the public interest and paying its taxes provides an opportunity to choose the free capacity of the private at the public expense, I believe, is a crucial and important step towards combating such a development. It is also important to reduce the waiting time at public hospitals, because there are most treatments in any case. There we are now achieving good results, although I am absolutely not satisfied with the situation. In many areas, there is too much waiting time, and that is why we need to put the effort there. When the population feels that the waiting time for the publicly funded healthcare is not excessive, that access is good, I am also convinced that the insurance industry must be active in areas other than the sale of insurance for necessary healthcare. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3441	I heard the council say we put on more money, we organize better, and we prevent earlier. That's very good, and we in the majority agree with the broad lines of health policy. But I noticed that the Council of State did not mention one of the major challenges, which is recruitment to get the wheels to go around and meet the challenges we are facing. In 2030 – if we do not take any action – one of the three 18-year-olds will have to choose a health profession. Yesterday we heard at NRK that it is approx. 200 young Northmen in Hungary and will not be approved for their psychological training. We were through the same round of nurses with foreign education, perhaps especially in Australia, a few years ago. After that, the State Office for the Authorisation of Health Care Professionals has become a member of the Directorate for Health. I had hoped that we were out of a day-to-day management of students who choose foreign education. It doesn't seem like they've learned. What's happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3448	That is quite right, what the representative addresses: there was a need to make changes to improve the predictability of young people who choose to go out to take a health education. That is why we have improved the information now provided through the State Loan Fund, so we have joined the Health Directorate in order to get better treatment systems and better quality control, and that is why initiatives have also been taken to establish an additional training offer at the University of Oslo and Akershus for nurses who need some additional courses to validate their education in Norway. With regard to the specific case in Hungary, it is in a slightly different category. It's a study that doesn't give authorization in Hungary either. We also have a number of students in Norway who have a master's degree in psychology but who do not give authorization to become a psychologist, simply because it is not a psychologist's education. We cannot grant approvals for education that are not equivalent to Norwegian psychological education. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3455	If we're going to be able to recruit people into care in the future, we're probably going to have to offer both a full job, a real salary and a decent pension that you can live on when you get old. But there's also a need to be enough people at work so that you can use the professional knowledge you've acquired through education. The problem now, reports many people in care, perhaps especially in dementia care, is that there are not enough staff with sufficient skills to meet the quality requirements. You have to do something about that. I was glad that the Council of State in its contribution now signaled that we actually have to spend more money on this future, because there's nothing in the census. There's only talk about welfare technology, and demente needs something other than welfare technology, they need employees who can take care of them. Then the question is: does the Council of State now realise that SV is right that we need recruitment standards in the care of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3462	Firstly, I do not agree that people with dementia need anything other than care technology; they also need care technology. Caring technology can in many cases be a very important tool for mastering your own life and self-sufficiency. We can't talk that down. However, I also fully agree that both people with dementia and others who need care services also need to meet health and care staff with a high level of competence and who have time for them. I think the report made by the nurses' union in this area is very exciting reading, because it says that half is very pleased with their work situation, their career opportunities and the possibility of development, while the other half is very dissatisfied. That, I think, gives a comprehensive picture of the far too wide a variation that is in Municipality-Norway in this area. Many of those who feel that they are too few on the job are too few on the job because there are vacancies that are not recruited. That is why this government systematically rates management [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3470	The time has come, and the President will remind you that speaking time is to be respected even in the case of string changes. There's been a problem through this round of lines. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3477	This debate has shown us clear differences, and having heard representatives from the Right and the Progressive Party, there is reason to stress that in Norway we are living by each other's work, not by the work of others. Women's participation in the labour market is more important to us as a nation than oil revenue is. We have a long tradition in this country to solve the big problems together. Our strength lies in strong communion and the belief that work is the basis of everything, and that tripartite cooperation is crucial. It's made us the best country in the world to live in. In the last three years, Norway has had a government that helps to increase differences by providing tax cuts to those who have the most in the past, rather than investing in work, education, health and school. One billion more to the 50 richest in the country instead of early school effort – that is priority, that is. That's the wrong priority. Not only does the differences between poor and rich and between women and men increase, but also between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs. In the last year, unemployment has grown. At the same time, the growth of new jobs is at a standstill, because, while 355,000 new jobs were created under the Stoltenberg II Government, hardly anyone is created on the Right and the Advance Party. 25 000 new jobs, of which three out of four in the public sector, are the lowest employment of 20 years. 5 pst. unemployment is the highest number of unemployed persons in a quarter of a century. This government is historical, yes prehistoric. Norwegian men in the 20s and 30s don't have a hat in their hands, like their grandparents did. They are now holding their hands with a mobile phone and waiting for the next job. None of the representatives of the Right Party or the Progressive Party respond to that challenge in this debate. In my home municipality, Rissa, they have the highest unemployment rate in the South Trondelag, at 4.8 pst. The situation is well illustrated in the municipality's shipyard, Fosen Yard, where the refurbishment of Hurtigruta's ships takes place. In the yard, they now have temporary arrangements that allow employees to bear temporary risks. The employees work on contracts that give the employees profits if the job is on schedule – it is great – but if the employees are unable to complete the work on a budgeted basis, they have to work for half a salary. It's not quite so great, it's actually very serious for those who know about the insecurity of next month's pay. This is neither safety nor safety at work. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we make demands, but also that we make demands. In 1933, opposition politician Johan Nygaardsvold from the Labour Party said in this Chamber: «You can see how conditions are. It is not lacking in sight in this case; but what is lacking in the civil parties is the will." I know that Norwegian politicians do not rule over international economic cycles, but what policy and will the international economic cycle meet with, that means something. In this case, business cycles are met with a lack of willingness to do what actually works: raising the level of knowledge in the labour market, package of measures and previous changes in the legislation on permitting. The economic policy of the Supreme Court is strong, said Prime Minister Erna Solberg at Højre's national meeting. Yes, I agree, it seems powerful, but perhaps not so powerful for what it was supposed to be. Right-wing fiscal economic policies are not particularly effective in increasing the number of new jobs; we have been told that, but economic policies are very effective in increasing the differences in Norway. Nearly 20 billion. This government has already given them 50 million dollars in tax cuts. Every day. One tenth of the population in Norway now has more than 50 pst. of all wealth. The wages of those who earn the most are almost twice as high as those who earn the least. That's enough now, now this country needs a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3499	‘Norway is a country with great potential. We have a highly educated population and large natural resources’, it is said in the Common Era. Not only do we have large natural resources, we have also, over the years, pursued a policy that has ensured that these resources are at the hands of the community, that the harvesting of resources benefits society as a whole, and we have built a modern society and a vital industry based on our natural resources. This is a policy which the Labour Party will continue. The resources are given to us by nature, but ownership and control are the result of political decisions – decisions that have been taken after political struggles over time, and at each crossroad the right side has been on the wrong side. At a time when climate change and its reduction must form a framework for all policies, we in Norway can rejoice that close to all our power generation is renewable and not fossil. The hydropower does not just give light and heat in those thousands of homes. It also provides a basis for industry and value creation across the country. In this industry, we are witnessing a formidable technological and product development that points straight into a renewable society where we still have industry, value creation and jobs. We wouldn't have had this development if we didn't have a lot of power at prices that make Norway an attractive place to invest in this type of industry. This is a competitive advantage that needs to be defended and further developed. Community ownership and control of hydropower and the transmission network ensure that the needs and priorities of society govern development. The right-hand side of Norwegian policy is not concerned with Community ownership and control. From the Right, we've heard before that they want to abolish the right of return. It encountered so much resistance that it was not adopted. Now we hear from the Right Programme Committee that they want to privatise Statkraft – a partial privatisation, as they say – where the right to return should be ensured, and the cash flow of Norwegian hydropower should go to the state. Realism in this combination is not being discussed, of course, it is short and well an impossibility. Today's restrictions of ownership in hydropower production mean that a hydropower plant must have at least two thirds public ownership. Statkraft owns 36 pst. of the production capacity of Norwegian hydropower generation. If State power is sub-privatised, this means that it must be considered as private owners and must therefore be sold down to public owners. In theory, municipalities and county councils can buy, but we all understand that today's municipal economy is not realistic. Sub-privatisation of Statkraft and continued public ownership of hydropower production thus appear to be Ole Brumm's policy, yes to both, but totally unrealistic. The result will be an enormous pressure on the ownership constraints we have, and therefore on the whole idea that the hydropower resources belong to the Norwegian people. A repeal of the two-thirds public ownership rule will open this sector to strong and mainly foreign financial participations. This is a result the right-hand side has flirted with earlier. In view of this, the proposal for the partial privatisation of State power appears more like a wolf in sheep's clothing. More serious than a programme proposal in a party which, hopefully, is in opposition after the next elections, are the proposals that come from the government. We now have a proposal to allow private ownership of the foreign tables. If the proposal is adopted, it will open the way for private participations to take ownership of infrastructure that is important to our energy security and where revenue is currently used to reduce network rental for customers in the Norwegian network. Only the last three known financial years have been the earnings of our international relations of 2.25 billion. kr, which has been returned to the Community through a lower network lease. If we look at individual cables, we can pull out the NorNed cable, which since the start of 2008 has given gross revenues of 2.59 billion. SEK, of which 590 million. kr has been returned to the community. Like the Commission's proposal on the partial privatization of State power, this bill has no assessment of the impact of the change – for national ownership and control, for Community revenues, for customers in the power system, for our industry, for employment and value creation around the country. These are secondary considerations for batches and a government that is allergic to the Community owning something that generates income. The Workers' Party will pursue a policy that ensures common ownership and control of our natural resources, ensuring a sustainable harvest of resources and providing valuables in Norway. We don't want to mess with our hydropower resources, we don't want to privatize our foreign tables, we want to go against the privatisation of Statskog, we say no to eternal fishing quotas. In short, we will go against a sale of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3527	Norway is a country with great potential. Over the last 10 to 15 years, we have had an extra strong co-wind, especially as a result of the growth of petroleum-oriented industries. At the same time, we have long been aware of the need for change and that we are vulnerable. The sharp fall in oil prices we have experienced in the last two years has accelerated and strengthened this need. This is a demanding situation for many, for those who lose their jobs, for families and for communities along the coast. We have to assume that fewer people will work in this industry in the future. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the petroleum industry will be very important in the Norwegian economy for many years to come. It is very good that the industry now wins contracts in connection with, among other things. the extension of Johan Sverdrup. It shows that the effort to reduce costs results. We're competitive again. The image of Norwegian business is also complex, and although many industries have a tough day, we see that other industries are doing very well. We have kept the Norwegian economy in order and provided a stable framework for business. We also see that more forces are attracting economic growth: the steering rate is half a percent, and low interest rates are helping to keep consumption and investment up. Many export companies benefit from a weakened crown and moderate wage settlement, in particular in fisheries and aquaculture, travel and process industries. This is positive, but Norway is far from being fully relocated. When I travel around the country and visit companies and get feedback, they are very clear. They want us to do more of what we already do. We have a tax policy that makes it pay to work, save and invest, and where private Norwegian ownership is strengthened. The most important thing we can do at a time of transition is to stimulate private, competitive business. We are betting on transport, because people, goods and services need to move forward more quickly. It is important for business throughout the country. And not least, since we took over in 2013, this government has invested heavily in research and innovation. In the 2016 state budget, it is allocated close to 2.4 billion. kr more for industrial research and innovation than in 2013. We are committed to nationwide general arrangements, so that efforts are directed to your greatest need, and the best projects are supported. We strengthen schemes that we know have good effect. The SSB has analysed the impact of the instruments of Innovation in Norway and the Research Council. The analysis shows that we have focused on the best-performing instruments. In 2015, Innovation Norway committed nearly 1.8 billion. to enterprises in the South and West, financed from the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. This was 49 pst. of the funds. It shows that schemes specifically address regions with specific migration challenges. In order to succeed in the transformation of the economy, we must bring with us the established businesses, but we must also facilitate new ones. We need more entrepreneurs with growth ambitions. It is simply about creating new jobs. This government has invested in entrepreneurs from day one. We have strengthened schemes to help entrepreneurs in the start-up phase, which increase and contribute to skills, and which provide the basis for more entrepreneurial culture in Norway. That's why last year we also launched our Founder's Plan Good ideas – the jobs of the future, with over 400 million. additional to the founding measures that are now being implemented. However, the largest growth contribution in the short and medium term will come from the established industry. It is therefore essential that we succeed in facilitating the conversion of our existing businesses. That is why the government is now working on an industrial report. We know that Norwegian industry is facing major changes. Businesses need to find more profitability outside the petroleum sector. At the same time, new technologies will shape and change industrial enterprises. And not least we're going through a green shift. We have a proud industrial history in Norway. We know that conversion is not new to businesses. If you're going to survive as a business in a small and open economy, a thing has to do just that. But what's new this time is that everything happens at an extreme rate. There are many trends that hit us at the same time. We see that the government's industrial policy works. It is also the feedback I get from companies around the country. Thanks to a resilient Norwegian business, many hard-working employees, good framework conditions and public instruments, we will get this done, even if it takes some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3564	Almost no new jobs are created in the private sector in Norway, and the proportion of the employed population has not been so low in more than 20 years. Governments talked about green conversion, but so far we see that the growth in the various industries is greatest in terms of health and care, construction and construction, hotels and services and public administration, i.e. not in the industries that were discussed in the context of green conversion. In the last three years, the Economic and Social Committee has received very few cases from the Minister of Industry, while we see that the unemployment rate has fallen. I want to ask the Minister of Industry, who is also the Minister of Employment, how pleased she is with her own efforts to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3571	I have listened to the debate today, and I hear that there is an impression that we are in arrears in our reporting work. Of course we don't. And if the Business Committee is out of work, I'm surprised that half a year has been spent dealing with the new law on public procurement, as we saw in ours. Our message work is in progress. But, fortunately, it's not like the world's still waiting for big messages. There's one message that's been delayed, it's the travel life message. It is delayed because the industry itself wanted it. They wanted their own assessment of the marketing work. We had a review of travel life a few weeks ago. So travel life has had record years, both last year and this year, so the world doesn't stand still, and the messages come to Stortinget when they're going to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3576	It seems that the Minister of Industry is very satisfied with his own work, but it is thus that during this period only 25 000 new jobs have been created – three out of four in the public sector. Over the eight red-green years, 360 000 jobs were created, two out of three in the private sector. I think it's important to have an active industrial policy that helps create jobs. Then I think it's strange that the Council of State is pleased that you don't come up with important messages to build up under a good policy. Storting messages such as industry reports, forest and agricultural reports, notification of a bioeconomic strategy – many of them have asked the Stortinget to do so quickly, but it takes time. So then I think it might be interesting to ask again: when will there be growth in the number of jobs in the private sector on behalf of the job done by the Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3581	It has been fascinating to hear how the labour market has developed over the last four years — at a time when the oil sector had adventurous investments, adventurous economic figures, so it was an adventurous growth. Of course, you can choose to take credit for that. You could add that you didn't spend good years preparing for tougher times, that you didn't do enough to get us more legs to stand on, and that we're vulnerable. We got an increasingly two-part economic policy. As a result, when many jobs disappear in the private sector, it takes time to set up new ones. This is not a quick fix, and the most serious thing is, of course, that when you compare the last four-year period with this, you show that you do not understand the huge conversion work we have to go through, which takes time, and which is not a quick fix. I'm talking to the business community. They are very clear that reduced taxes and taxes, more commitment to commerce, more commitment to industrial research and innovation are what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3586	As a member of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Parliamentary Committee, I am concerned about customs, jobs and free trade in the changing situation we now have in Europe. Then came the brexit, and it was a great surprise that might also put Norway in a new position in the long term. I am aware that a reply round will be too short to explain it, but the United Kingdom is an important trading partner for us, and it may be unnatural to enter into a cooperation before the United Kingdom itself has signed up or asked to leave the EU. But can we get a little summary? Is there contact with the United Kingdom now to safeguard Norway's interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3591	That's a good and an important question. The United Kingdom is one of our most important trading partners. That means that the evolution they are now entering is of great importance to us. That's why I asked for a meeting with the new British government very soon after brexit and, as the first Norwegian government council, I had a meeting with Trade Minister Fox a short time ago. We invited them to cooperate closely to keep each other up to date, and Fox also invited them to work together between Norway and the United Kingdom to follow these developments. So these are important questions for us. What we're concerned about is ensuring Norwegian market access on at least as good terms as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3597	Let me first say that I think it is very special that the Council of State comes to the Storting and complains about the time we spent negotiating the promises of public procurement. There was a need to make significant changes to the laws, simply because the government had not understood that the Storting was actually occupied by the non-profit sector. So to the question. Simplifying has been a slogan for this government. One has created a rule board. It hasn't been easy at all because it mostly gives yellow and red cards to most of what comes from things, but it's not taken into account by the government. My question is really quite simple: Has it been easier?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3604	We've promised to simplify business costs. At the end of 2017, costs shall be reduced by 15 billion. kr. We've now passed 11 billion. kr after the last count, and I am absolutely sure that when the new Public Acquisition Act enters into force on 1 January, further major simplifications will be felt on the body of business throughout the country, because it is perhaps one of the most important and most important simplification measures. As far as the Board of Regulators is concerned, it has just come to work. I'm very happy about that. The idea was that they should show red and yellow cards when it was based, and the representative is completely wrong when he says that we do not listen to them. The Board of Regulators has not worked long enough to actually have consequences for our proceedings. It's going to come, and it's going to have its moustache. I am absolutely sure that the Council will be clear on the consequences of introducing new laws, regulations and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3611	I welcome the attention of the Council of State to entrepreneurs in its contribution, but Norway needs many more companies to ensure the well-being of future generations. Better access to risky and competent capital for entrepreneurs and innovative growth enterprises is important. As it is now, incentives for investors are not sufficient to invest in start-up enterprises rather than in, for example: property. The left has pointed to the CapitalFUNN as one of several solutions to it. The government needs to be more involved in this area, and I also lack more pressure in the work to provide self-employed people with better social arrangements, so that it becomes more attractive to start and run their own business. I'm impatient, so my question is, how will the Minister of Industry help more people to start and run their own businesses and create their jobs in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3618	We have launched a number of new measures, such as pre-seed funds, establishing grants – i.e., a number of new schemes that must be allowed to work. What I can say is that we're in record business. That means that right now there are a lot of wise minds who are using the situation they're in, to establish their own business. I am very pleased with the cooperation we have had with the Left to create a much better entrepreneurial policy. I am also aware of the proposal on Capital FUNN. It's something we've said in the Founding Plan that we're going to investigate, and it's in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3625	The speech of the throne was marked by a lot of gloom, I think, and a sense of blackness – between the progressing party bluffs, as if it had to pay more for immigrants to work than to go to social security. Think of making the king put forward lines like that! So there was a lot of talk about how sad it was that we had to prepare for cuts and reforms. The contrast is quite high with the Minister of Industry's speeches now. Here there's no way how well government policy delivers, and how many jobs are on the way. It's a shared message. The problem is that none of the parts match reality. There were far more jobs created in the private sector and at a very different rate when SV was running, than now when Right controls. The top right answer is still tax cut. The Minister of Economic Affairs was in on it himself. But I wonder, for now the government has been sitting for three years: does the government have any figure for how many jobs created by the government's billion-dollar cut in the wealth tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3630	I do not agree with the views of the representative on the languages of the throne. What I said in my post was that Norwegian business is complex. It's made up of a lot of companies that work very hard, like downmen, who have it tough. And it's made up of a lot of companies that have it very well, that set the records of the times, for example. within travel lives. Norwegian business is complex, we're a complex country, and we're actually going to be very happy about that. As far as tax cuts are concerned, I have also listened with interest to the debate today, and I have a clear view that for some people this is a theoretical exercise. It's not for the companies out there. They feel that the wealth tax is a heavy burden, that it weakens Norwegian jobs. It must only be the red-greens who believe that increased taxes and taxes contribute to the security of Norwegian business and jobs. Every Norwegian company I meet says that lower taxes, lower taxes on wealth, are what they need. They need more focus on transport, more focus on industrial research and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3637	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3645	Prior to the 2013 elections, the Right promised a course change of labour policy. Yes, the right would even be the new work party. One of the things that had to be changed was that access to temporary employment should be made easier for businesses, but only in case of short-term needs. Yes, we got a change of course, because what happened was that in practice there was a release of temporaryity, and not unexpectedly the criticism has been strong. The Right Party and the Advance Party continue to deliver the message that permanent employment remains the main rule in Norwegian working life. They say, "Trust us." There is little reason to trust the Right Party and the Advance Party in the fight for permanent employment. It is only to look at the results after the changes in the Working Environment Act, which came last year. These changes have now worked for about a year, and we can't ignore the facts and the numbers SSB has now provided. The number of temporary staff has increased considerably in 2016. Last year was at the base of 8 pst. by workers in Norway on a temporary basis. In the second quarter of this year, the proportion had risen to 8.8 pst. It's the second quarter in a row of increases, after the level has remained steady over the last four years. What makes me most concerned, and what makes the workers unsafe, is that while this increase, we see that the level of employment is falling. The springboard effect that the right-hand side said we should get from temporary to fixed employment, we warned against and doubt, and we see no springboard effect either. As the Labour Party and many others, including the trade union movement, pointed out: a weakening of the right to permanent jobs will not give more jobs, rather the opposite. The OECD recommended long-term use of temporaryity, and many countries have tried it out, but this has been neglected. Why? Yes, because it doesn't work. With all the documentation we now have on what temporaryity has done to the labour market in several countries, I am surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not understand the consequences. Medium-termity only produces more temporaryity. The policies of the Party of Advancement and the Right seem quite the opposite, and it is time for them to realize it for themselves. It's about job security, and it's about work security. Norway needs a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3656	On a children’s website about the terrestrial planet, children from different countries tell how climate change affects them and how they work to stop and adapt to the negative climate impacts. They are concerned about how to cut emissions, how to live with daily climate change and who pays for emissions. As adults, we must listen and give recognition to these children. We have a great responsibility for the future, and I choose to be an impatient optimist. We have put in place the Paris Agreement, and there is a great deal of consensus in the Stortinget that it must focus on action to that end. Seven-mile steps have been taken, but several important steps remain. In some generations, we have uncritically built our growth and prosperity to distort the globe's carbon balance, first because we didn't know, then because we knew, while many would not know. Now the world is acting for 12 hours. The Paris Agreement was a breakthrough, with previous climate sinks coming on board. President Obama took seven-mile steps on behalf of his people. It's to hope he doesn't get a successor who throws the seven-mile boots. Returning to our own everyday life and sweeping at our own door: in climate policy, being an international driver is important, but if we do not celebrate at our own door, international credibility is weakened. We have experienced a decline in oil and petroleum-based industries. We need to use the free, knowledge-filled workforce for a large-scale renewable energy investment. Norway has all its opportunities! However, unlike some of the other environmental parties on Stortinget, the Christian People's Party says that petroleum activities will be important for Norway for decades to come. The transition from fossil to renewables must come and come. The Christian People's Party will fight against, is to start petroleum activities in particularly vulnerable areas, such as outside the Lofoten, the West Pole, Senja and the Moravian Banks and in the areas up to the ice edge. The Christian People's Party would clearly say no – loud and clear – to all attempts at this. We do not accept that agreements are forgotten. The fall of the summer from the government was extremely surprising and unacceptable. I started the article in a children's perspective. We have to give our children and grandchildren our climate hope. In a world of war, conflict, terror, earthquakes, floods and drought, it is extra hard for the children. The poorest are hit hardest, and more than half a billion children live in areas with extreme flooding. I will nevertheless be optimistic. If we are able to follow up the Paris Agreement, we are in favour of limiting the number of children threatened by the most serious consequences in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3673	I have noticed today that the Minister of Health has misinformed the Stortinget regarding the so-called roof for the patient treatment in the hospitals. I hope he comes up here and clears it up a little later this evening. I can start by tipping him off that it was in 2004 that the roof was introduced, and then he can take it from there. The following year, the Stoltenberg government took over a hospital economy in total chaos. It took five years to get it all on foot, thanks to solid self-sufficiency from the hospitals and the red-green government's refinancing of the sector. In this year, that is, in 2010, waiting times in hospitals are beginning to decline. Health statistics deal with complex issues. Therefore, as politicians, we should be extremely careful about using statistics and individual tables to provide airy statements about the results achieved. Not least, we need to consider that as important as statistics is the information that is not described in tables. Today's Medicine revealed in spring that a large number of patients are on internal lists in hospitals, without this appearing in any public statistics. Health managers and hospital doctors stood up and claimed that the pressure in hospitals has led many patients to close at a high rate from referral to the first consultation, then to remain in the system – without being found in public tables. Only in Oslo University Hospital are there 60 000 patients who cannot be seen in the statistics, and I wonder: are these 56 000 fewer in line? Decreases in waiting times require a good ICT structure. The Stoltenberg government started work on putting digital solutions in place in the health sector – against intrusive and incomprehensible struggles, especially from the Right. It has to be a plus in the margin that the party now has its mind, but this clearly shows that today's government succeeds primarily when it is based on the health policy of the previous government. With the government's own political ideas, on the other hand, it is also bad. The right major ideological privatisation project, the so-called free treatment option, has collapsed completely and is unable to reduce waiting times by as much as an hour. Erna Solberg spoke before the election that 20,000 patients should be treated under the control of free choice of treatment. We got the fasitite in ours: $30 million. kr only for administrative expenses – and 194 patients treated. This waste of public health funds, which is about shutting the community's resources into the private health group's accounts, we simply need to get rid of it. Then we need to strengthen and further develop the real right to choose a treatment site, which all patients in this country have had for 15 years through free hospital choice. It is the community health services, the public hospitals, that are in place every day throughout the country to provide top treatment to Norwegian patients. Privatisation side-logical construction works of the type of free treatment choices are not enough – we have seen that with all clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3687	The representative Jette F. Christensen used the expression ‘absolutely fabulous’ in his reply to Nikolai Astrup. It's an expression that fits well with the results of this government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, in our hospitals. We've increased the budgets more in three years than the red-greens did in their eights. We have given patients more rights, reduced queues and waiting time, and not least we have raised those who sat at the bottom of the health policy table, the people with problems in the drugs and psychiatry field. Waiting times go down, both for those who are referred to the hospitals for treatment, and for those who actually receive follow-up in hospitals. 56 000 patients are no longer in line. Only in the last year, the waiting time averaged down by one week. It simply doesn't matter to talk away from it. Yes, we're improving public health. Hospital trust is record high. It shows the trust barometer from TNS Gallup. In fact, it was on the Labour Party's guard that the private insurance companies speeded up. People didn't think the Workers' Party would be able to reduce health cows. The working party did not talk about hospitals, but let the health companies manage. We have adopted a national health and hospital plan that ensures predictability and quality in hospitals. This is where the Workers' Party reported fit. They would not be involved in negotiations, would not be a so-called responsible opposition party, as the representative Mikalsen continues to claim. Yes, the right has taken seriously that some patients were dissatisfied with information in the hospitals and continuity of treatment. On 1 September, a new entitlement entered into force: Those with serious diseases are now entitled to a contact doctor at the hospital. It was also absolutely necessary to enter a cancer patient's lift. Therefore, the right-hand job involved a cancer package, just to ensure safe and equal treatment. The reform of free treatment choices was adopted by the Stortinget in 2015, against the red-green votes. This is not an ideological privatisation project, as the Workers' Party claims, this is a strengthening of patients' rights. For us in the Right, it thinks that patients are satisfied with the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3701	What I've been talking about here are better solutions. The right is concerned with the patient’s healthcare. It is not ideology that should rule. It is ‘absolutely manufacturing’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3705	I have heard that many people have called for Norway to have more legs to stand on, and then I want to say, ‘Look to the Inland’. There we have world-class industry, we have renewable resources in soil and forest, we have culture, we have nature, and we have a wonderful travel life. All we need is a government that works with us and not against us. We're concerned about a government that doesn't fully understand that the use of the gardens in the mountains of the Gudbrand valley and Valdres is not really going to get bigger no matter how much the government wants them to grow, and is pursuing a policy that favors the main uses, a government that will eliminate important instruments such as price control and the concession law. The only point of light with the government's agricultural policy is that it is going to fail in this Chamber. In a large state like Uppland, we are dependent on good infrastructure, and when a run up through Hadeland or up to Valdres and Gudbrands Valley, it smells like asphalt – thanks to a huge investment in infrastructure from the red-green national transport plan. Solvik-Olsen is doing an excellent job as the Stoltenberg government's string cutter around Norwegian roads, but the difference between this government and the previous government is that the red-green have realized that infrastructure is not just road and track. In Uppland, there is a alarming need for more digital motorways, but government is slowing down job growth and economic development when they cut into broadband development in the districts. In Oppland, there are creative entrepreneurs and some of the world's best skilled workers, people who want to contribute to the creation of new jobs. One of our most important instruments has been regional development funds, but it may have been a bit too targeted for government, because there they have also cut. We have a government that takes Norway in the wrong direction. Unemployment is rising, employment is falling. While the taxes to people most go up, the taxes to the rich go down. There will be more bureaucrats in departments and directorates, but fewer skilled jobs in the districts. The country reduces ownership of hereditary silver, and the differences in the country are increasing. So with this government, it's going to be more of what we want, and less of what we want more of, and that's why both Uppland and Norway deserve a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3717	In integration policy, there is a broad consensus that the most important thing is to facilitate the rapid learning of languages by those who come to Norway. It is the key to getting in and working well in both education and work. The goal must be that you can support yourself and yours and contribute to society in the same way that we do. If this goal is to be achieved, the framework conditions must be brought right from our side. This means, in practice, that language training needs to be strengthened already during the reception phase. That is why we are surprised to see that the government would actually weaken this effort, as suggested by the government in the Communication on Integration. Fortunately, this was stopped in the Stortinget precisely because the objective is both value-based and knowledge-based. It must be a central task for the Stortinget to facilitate the break-up of the inactivity of Norwegian reception. Grown-up people who come here want to start life again for themselves and their families. Then the motivation can be at the top of both relief and gratitude as well as a desire not to bother. Today, thousands of healthy adults go for months and years without moving on in Norway. It kills motivation and initiative and creates future social clients and so-called neighbours. Integration and employment are difficult enough if we are not to reinforce the challenges. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to be able to take a closer look at these conditions in order to secure our common sustainable welfare society. Recent research shows that passive waiting in reception greatly reduces the possibility of getting into work after asylum has been granted. A way forward may be to prioritize faster settlement, it may break passivity earlier. We have seen that in 2014 the municipalities have done a great job and resided and rigged for further inclusion. Now it's just about following up with government priorities. This work must provide good opportunities for voluntary involvement and efforts by voluntary and non-profit organisations. It's hard to find better integration arenas than that. Voluntary Norway is ready to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3725	Another way is that it must be easier to get a temporary work permit while waiting for the matter to be resolved. The government's proposals in the Communication on Integration propose to remove the requirement for implementing asylum interviews, unfortunately little, and the rigid requirements for identity clearance exclude many from the labour market. The call from the Christian People's Party is therefore clear: Break the passivity in reception, involve volunteering more in both the reception and later phases, and lower the threshold for temporary work permits. We believe that this can be done without changing the strict conditions of residence permits, and it will be a better investment both in working life and in society for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3728	Norway is a country with unique opportunities, but unfortunately they are not used by this government. Increased unemployment and increased hazardous climate emissions must meet with a forward-looking commitment, not with more dependence on oil or tax relief for prosperity, because none of the elements will help us into the future. Challenges with millions of people fleeing from war and conflict cannot be solved by the fact that rich countries such as Norway are involved in closing the borders and seeing between their fingers in violation of international law. This doesn't take us in the right direction. Differences are like poisons in a society, and it destroys the economy. We're doing better financially if the differences get smaller. Therefore, a new tax reform is needed that provides significantly lower taxes on ordinary and low incomes and higher taxes for those who have wealth and high incomes – on the contrary to what the government is doing. A new policy against poverty is needed. You have to, for example, increasing child welfare, because keeping people in poverty creates neither health nor someone at work – creating hopelessness, sickness, fear and scarcity. Working life with more temporary jobs and more insecurity does not create the innovation and participation we need to continue the good productivity growth that has been in Norwegian working life in the last decades. We need to get back laws that take care of the most important resource that the country has, namely the labour force. We need a new housing policy that takes into account those who don't have housing, who need housing, and who don't give large tax credits to people who borrow money for housing. One, two, and three, and they're wondering and they're increasing. We need to take control of and remove the rich suction pipes into the Community's tax money on the privatisation of well-being and care – all that money is going to go to, for example. child protection or care for the elderly. Those who do the job in these important professions are entitled to a decent pension they can live on, and not that the money goes to dividends in companies. Many of these companies have invested in tax havens, where hundreds of billions of dollars are being avoided for which we could build well-being. The government has no answer to this, they haven't even mentioned it in their throne speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3737	The census starts with the fact that there are small differences in Norway, and that we have equal opportunities and rights in this respect, for example. education and health care. It has been and will be a strength when we are going to build the country and the welfare of the years to come. But the matter is that this government contributes a little every day to the increase in differences in Norway, and this government has done so since it joined three years ago. The differences are increasing. Those who have the most from before get more. Differences are increasing between those who have a job and those who have no job. Differences are increasing between those who have a regular job and those who only get temporary employment. We see differences increasing between cities and countries and where centralisation policy is strong. Ashim isn't big enough for the government. Therefore, they are now at risk of losing their tax office and state jobs, which are to be centralised away from Ashim. The right-wing rapporteur is not impressed – and that is not what the voters in Inner Eastfold were promised in 2013. So the government continues to show that we need more jobs in the private sector. We are very much in agreement about this, but it seems very unlikely that when the Right and the Advance Party strike down with aircraft seat charges that effectively remove up to 1 000 jobs in the private sector only in Eastfold, calculated against 4 000 to 5 000 on a country-by-country basis. It's almost so you don't think so. And it probably didn't believe the voters in Østfold in 2013 when the Right and Advance Party ran around the county and promised a business policy that would lead to strong growth in the number of jobs. The party for progress, the party for a strong reduction in taxes, is now behind and strongly supports a tax increase that removes thousands of private, profitable jobs around the country. This isn't conversion. It's terrible political craftsmanship. The government has not prioritised Eastfold, to say the least. This government has prioritised 20 billion. kr a year in so-called dynamic tax havens, mostly for the richest of Norway, and we see no increase in the number of jobs in Eastfold with this policy, as promised. On the other hand, the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party today believe that it is fantastic that Norway’s wealthiest receives between 20 and 30 million in tax reliefs, while ordinary people are eaten by between 2 000 and 3 000 kroner. They may be punch-drinks, the whole government, and you don't think and act clearly. After all, the Prime Minister himself has seen and experienced it closely. And maybe that's why we don't get any clear answers from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3755	We are pleased that a total increase has adopted Barna's transport plan, on the proposal of the Christian People's Party, a plan to ensure the safety of children and young people when designing future transport plans. The transport system is important in order to take better care of children and young people than today. A safe growth requires that children’s needs weigh heavily when designing future transport solutions. All children shall have the right to a safe school path and the duty to go to school must be accompanied by a right to come safely to and from school. A society that is good for the children is good for all of us, and we don't do this for ourselves, we do it because we owe these children the best possible start to their lives. I would argue that it is one of our most important tasks as politicians. Recently, alarming signals have been received from several parties, in fact also from the Right, where a new proposal for a batch programme is called for to allow for the total elimination of child welfare and to change state cash support. In VG 12 September this year Kristin Vinje enters to ‘strengthen the working line of parents’, which it is called. by doing kindergarten free of charge by cutting child allowances and cash support. It is very surprising that the Right now appears to be in the process of leaving its value-conservative position and instead promotes a policy in which the family should submit to the state. Parents are so much more than wage-earners; they are caregivers who every day are concerned about finding the best solutions and getting time for the children, in combination with work. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important to protect the family's right to choose the solution that you think best suits your own children. Cash support is a good tool that gives parents more time with their children. And although it has come in hard weather from both the Left and the Right lately, it should be recognized that 41 pst. it is received by all one-year-old parents and it is a majority of the population to maintain the scheme. Child-resistance is another good that ensures family flexibility. While free kindergarten is the designation of funds, the family’s right to decide for themselves how to use this money is ensured. Families should be guaranteed the opportunity to make their own choices. The Christian People's Party believes that the universal child's fear must be continued and strengthened instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3767	It is surprising that parties who are concerned with freedom of choice are now in favour of a state supremacy of the families where only families who choose the right solution will receive support. How the individual family chooses to organize their lives must be a decision that the families make themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3771	Education for all has always been one of the main battles of the Workers' Party. We know that education is the key to your own income, to your own life, where you can realize yourself and your own abilities. Here is also the key to growth and prosperity for the nation. But school and education are more than giving money and having laws in place that give everyone the right to education. It's about creating a good, safe school environment where children and young people can be curious and get challenged, no matter what they bring in their luggage. The family and kindergarten shall provide the basis for school learning and exploration. But unfortunately, this is not always the case. The school must in any case see everyone and give all the pleasure and the ability to read, calculate, write, but also paint, snow, sing, run, climb and thrive with itself. That's what's the big social mission -- that everyone is going to be the best version of themselves. Why is it then that young people who leave school and almost cannot read, who barely understand and can use numbers and other logical symbols, and who have not evolved creatively in school, but who have to go out and out to realize their own talent and ‘find their seas’? One of the answers is that too many children experience that their challenges are not taken seriously until it is too late. They have difficulty reading, but extra help and support only come after many years. They're struggling with unrest or excruciating behavior, but that there's an inconvenient relationship at home, only comes out when they're almost grown up. They think mathematics is difficult, but extra measures are not taken until the end of high school. We put the resources in too late, so what does the government do with it? The working party wants all those who are struggling at school to get help early. Then we need more teachers. We need early efforts, and that all over all, in all municipalities, throughout the country. That's why we want a read, write and calculate guarantee. This must be in place to prevent the major and unnecessary absence of secondary education. Because we need a competitive business, with top skilled workforce, and we need a public sector with skilled professionals at all stages. This means that the entire school cycle must be able to train the population in the best possible way. In the future, learning will be necessary throughout life, and it will be necessary for all of us. The Labour Party therefore wants to implement a reform that allows people to further develop their skills as technology changes their working life, as new jobs require us to know something else than before. The changes are now happening so quickly that it is unrealistic that only the newly educated are going to be the workforce that solves the problems in new ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3785	The foundation for Norway’s future technology and competence nation lies in a good school for everyone and a modern knowledge sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3788	First, I want to express that it was a very good throne speech, both in form and in content. It embraces a great deal, but it also has clear priorities. In this context, I want to take as a starting point the four points indicating the direction: investments in infrastructure investment in research Investments in innovation tax reform to promote investment and conversion in enterprises This will reduce transport costs, strengthen innovation and increase the skills of the population. Investment in infrastructure has been the main focus of the government from the first day. The investment framework has increased by nearly 50 p.m. to 59.7 billion. kr. We have also been taken into account to ensure faster and more cost-effective development. Planning appropriations have increased and initiatives have been taken to streamline the planning process. It's about being more restrained by sending projects into a heavy KVU process where the design options are obvious. It is a matter of looking at the need for local authority plans where an equally likely person can walk straight at the regulatory level. The use of government plans will also be an appropriate instrument in some contexts. Another important point has been the choice of standard on projects. In this context, I will be very careful to point to the preparation made by the Department this summer with regard to the development of pedestrian and bicycle routes along municipal and county roads. Here it was established that the counties and municipalities are free to decide for themselves what is a sufficient standard. This will result in substantially more walking and cycling routes – cheaper and faster. By building overall and over longer distances, total costs can be reduced and business benefits can be realized more quickly. The formation of New Veier AS is an exciting project in which one can gain experience with better predictability in terms of progress, standard and economy. These experiences can pave the way for a greater reform in relation to how the Storting should manage infrastructure development in the future. The railway reform draws a clear distinction between the order, the performer and the carrier. The Directorate shall be entrusted with managerial and coordinating tasks, while operational tasks shall include, inter alia,: the operation, maintenance and development of infrastructure is added to the infrastructure undertaking Bane NOR SF. Transport is put out to tender. The use of tenders is well known in public transport. In many counties, the bus transport is put out to tender – as is the ferry service. The experience is good. In the case of tenders, new and more stringent requirements may be imposed on the carrier – both in terms of material, capacity, frequency and environment. This has given customers a better offer. And that's what I meant!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3820	Today's debate has shown that the government has great faith that giving more to those who have the most from before contributes to increased prosperity for all. In the Labour Party, we have no faith in such a choice because it contrasts so strongly with the policy that we social democrats stand for, summed up in these four words: we stand stronger together. History shows that work for all, prosperity for all and well-being for all are best created through a strong community. This community is slowly but surely shattered by the policies of today's government. The result has been pointed out by many here today. I'm not going to repeat all that now, but the message and seriousness of the slogan "Work for All" are being challenged in these days. The disappearance of jobs due to fluctuations in economic cycles hurts those affected, but there is reason to point out that it also hurts when jobs disappear on the basis of policy decisions on centralisation. In Finnmark, public workplaces are moved out of the county in large mons. Even the county position is not illuminated otherwise than as a temporary position, even the man or woman of the country is important for the government to have in Finnmark. The representative Svein Harberg and others celebrate the government to dry up changes in access to public services. Everything is going to be so much better the longer away from the service the people are, is the government's mantra. New technology has to open all doors to these services, but the truth is that when you call or contact the centralized Nav office, the answer is usually: You're still in line. In such meetings with the public, the way is not long to use expressions that would have been beaten in this room. Similarly — and proximity to — health services throughout the country is a noble idea. I can't help not mention that sick people in Alta and Kautokeino have to travel for up to 14 hours for a specialist visit to the University Hospital North Norway in Tromsø without the Minister of Health caring. He also sits still and sees that Health Nord is building down the ambulance flight offer to the population of Finnmark. Equal health services only become words when such inaction and lack of political governance in health policy are made so evident. The government of Solberg went to the elections to say that they would change Norway, said among other things. the representative of Ebbesen in his statement. They have actually fulfilled that election promise, but not as they themselves perceive it. I want to quote what a man from Tromsø wrote on social media about the effect of right-wing policy in the north: I don't understand that people from the part of the country can sit and mistook the Right and the Advance Party to give away the resources of the part of the country to Norwegian and foreign billionaires. The local economy has not been strengthened. They have taken money from poor municipalities and given them to rich municipalities – exactly the same model they use most of the time: they are taken from them with little and transferred to the billionaires. The Labour Party takes this message seriously because we want Norway to be a country where differences are small, opportunities are great, and where we get freedom and security through strong Community solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3841	The most important thing we can say to young people is that now there are enormous opportunities within a wide range of occupations in Norwegian working life, in Norwegian business. With a significant contribution from the Left, starting on its own has become more attractive. We're going to do our utmost to make it even more attractive – not least in relation to social arrangements for those who start their own business, which I've been in for before today. I'm glad that we in the Left have had an impact on many business policy issues since the last time there was a debate on the throne. We have delivered to entrepreneurs and other entrepreneurs, as we have provided for agriculture, tourism, fisheries and aquaculture – not least more money for stock research – and the food industry, just as we have had a significant impact on a greener course in maritime policy. But the left is impatient and wants more. With new requirements for more environmentally friendly ships, there will be more activity for the shipyards, the supplier industry and neighbouring businesses. In parallel with this, concrete action must be taken on hydrogen solutions for ships and other modes of transport and infrastructure must be built with shore-side electricity in several ports. And then it has to be put on transportation, not least to connect housing and work regions more closely. In my part of the country, we need the ferry-free E39 throughout More and Romesdal, and we need Nordøyvegen as we need the Trollheim connection. More and Romsdal have a low share of government jobs compared to other counties. The county is almost at the bottom. Although we had a decision to place new pay and accounting jobs in the police department of Kristiansund and More and Romesdal – about 70 jobs – after a lot of time and again, this is little in the big context. There is therefore no reason why this should stop. North West needs more. In this picture, it is a little tragic that it may at all be relevant to lay down the State Treasury's office in Ørsta with around 20 employees. It's really creepy. I have great respect for the fact that many are in a difficult situation because they have become unemployed. For this reason, it is important that projects to be and must be carried out, for example: the construction of new Kristiansund Opera and Cultural Houses is under way to create more activity in a city and region affected by the oil and gas challenges. We have to see the possibilities and not the constraints now. I want to see an even stronger commitment to post school and higher education at NTNU in Ålesund, at the colleges of Molde and Volda and the University Centre of Kristiansund. The same applies to research at Nofima at Sunndalsøra, Møreforsking, NIBIO and NORSøK. These institutions are among the key factors for skills and business development in my part of the country and for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3858	There is something unhealthy about a policy that aims to increase the differences between people, which helps the unemployed to get less and the wealthiest to get a lot more, which benefits the unemployed from being cut by 2 billion. NOK, the money that has made it possible to cut the property tax. The 50 who receive the most tax relief will receive a thousand million dollars each year in splits – today we have heard the Right parliamentary leader call it ‘wonderful’ – while the unemployed who come to work again will have to take unpaid leave the following year. At least it's not amazing. There's something outrageous about such priorities. The list of measures that act to increase the differences between people is long: cut in the child supplement, not adjustment of basic and auxiliary benefits, cut in car arrangements, cut in commuting deductions, tax on termination benefits. The government's efforts to increase the differences between people may best be made visible by introducing taxes on termination benefits for older workers who lose their jobs, while those who have the most in the past receive large tax credits. The working party wants to move in a different direction. Our goal is to reduce the differences between people. There's something unhealthy about a policy that contributes to the opposite. In the census, it was found that there are too many health-related benefits in Norway and that it is demanding to achieve the goal of more people entering work. Today we have met with Nav Hadeland on the Upplands bench. There have been several politicians from the government parties visiting, because they have good results in their work of getting those who are the furthest away from work into work. They have succeeded with tailoring and close follow-up. A project aimed at those with mental and drug problems has received 70 pst. out to work. The results raise awareness. Targeted effort works. But the project is shut down, the funding disappears. How is the government going to achieve its targets for more people at work and fewer benefits when the instruments disappear? So far, the Inland has not been met by the unemployment crisis, but the challenges are not gone for that reason. The Inland Committee concluded that there is a need for greater attention to be paid to the negative development of the population and for new jobs. Now we haven't heard anything about the domestic adjustment in a long time. On behalf of the Homeland, we have great expectations of the current budget. We expect the Right Party and the People of the Advance Party in Stortinget to ensure that the vote is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3878	A little cross of thought: what would the Workers' Party have had to bite if it hadn't been for these kingdoms and this wealth tax? It would have been little, I think. But now leave it. I take the glove up to the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Gahr Støre, whom he left in the pulpit. Three years with the Right and Advance Party in government is enough – well, today was 15 minutes with Gahr Støre enough. His posts were spectacularly marked by a political loss of memory. Gahr Støre said that the government spends three years on the defense level and pushes on the problems for the Army. It was the Workers' Party that pushed the problems for the Army. In 2012, Jens Stoltenberg said that the defense was strutted by health, and that the changes were almost complete. Eia, we were there. The right smear smelled already in opposition – that the state of the defense was not so good, and there was magic in words when we entered the government offices and got the defense chief's military counsel and an external investigation into the situation in the defense. It wasn't out of health. The gloss picture that the Workers' Party had drawn had nothing to do with the realities. Defence of our territory and sovereignty is the central role of the state. The government promises and prioritises defence and preparedness policy. The police have been strengthened by three billion. kr until the 2017 government budget is presented. There will be 1,000 new policemen, and there will be more in the state budget for 2017. The government wants to re-establish the country's defence capabilities, along with the Workers' Party. But then the Labour Party and Gahr Støre must show something with more substance than what the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party did today. The defense is the country's insurance. The government is now proposing in its long-term plan that the defence should be administered to 160 billion. more than 20 years of age than the rest of the Workers' Party's defence policy plans. That's absolutely necessary. Years of lag and a changeable security policy situation mean that we have to have a better place to live than we have done today. All sectors of defence shall be strengthened and the country's overall response capacities shall be better exploited. Unfortunately, the Labour Party did not use the economic space they had for eight years to strengthen the Defence. Now there's no way out. The government takes responsibility and will lift the defense, so that our protection of the country is good enough, and that the state carries out its primary task.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3895	We have a government that prioritises big tax cuts for those who have the most from before – yes, a whole billion. Today, we belong to the 50 richest, in front of the development of welfare in the municipal sector. We have a government that increases differences in Norway: between rich and poor between those who have a job and those who do not have a job between those who have safe jobs and those who have unsafe jobs between city and country between men and women I claim we have a government that doesn't understand North Norway. We look at it in the light of the case, and the last example we now received with a proposal for a long-term defence plan. The message from the government is attempted to be sold as positive, but the reality shows something else. We've heard it before today: they're blinking to the left, but they're turning to the right. Norway’s strength lies in strong communities. The working party has the tradition of solving the big problems together. We've always been a driver of a society with the small differences and fair distribution. We know that work for all, prosperity for all and well-being for all are best created through the strong community – the Norwegian model. The Labour Party will strengthen the economy of the municipal sector. In this way, municipalities will be better able to develop key welfare services for citizens, such as kindergarten, school, elderly care and health care. The counties are better placed to invest in rural roads and to improve the quality of secondary education, with a specific focus on vocational education and training. That's why we proposed 3 billion in the treatment of the municipal bill. kr more than the government in 2017. We have a government that has put my homeland, Northern Ireland, in a serious economic situation, and challenges peak from 2020 due to the new cost keys. If this doesn't change, the county will have nearly 300 million. kr less to well-being each year. There is a cross-political consensus on focusing on digitisation. But we have a government that won't expand the digital infrastructure across the country. Here you have to make the market decide, and this gives you a digital distinction. We have a government that is more concerned with the municipal boundaries than with the municipal offer. Yes, it is difficult to be rapporteur in many municipalities, and I remember from the time I was rapporteur. Then Erna Solberg was Minister of State. It doesn't look like it's gotten any easier with her as a prime minister. We have a government that weakens agriculture in the north. We have a government that won't use the fish resources locally. We have a government that will weaken municipal income from the hydropower sector. The country needs a new government that turns the same road as you blink.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3934	The policy of government parties in this debate must be measured by whether it contributes positively or negatively to social development. Does it get any more jobs? Does it provide a basis for new industries? Does it reduce differences? Is it the case that the rapporteur in Kvännangen or Tierøy has more room to bet on early action? Is it possible for state politicians to support local businesses? Do the elected ones gain more power over their own development? From the north, the answer is too often no to these questions. There is no doubt that North Norway has a bright future with great opportunities. It's just that the government has to stop stretching bones on the continent. The examples of centralisation are too many, and the examples of cut are too many and too large. If the possibilities are to be fully exploited, the continent must have its own means and power, so that development in the north is more controlled from the north. I honestly don't know if the government understands that. On the contrary, evolution shows that we have a government that doesn't understand North Norway. The government shows that they really don't understand North Norway when they think that a consultant at the innovation office in Norway in Oslo can pick out the local projects and ideas that are important to Troms better than what local people can do. They show that they don't understand North Norway when they cut money to the County Council in Northern Ireland that they can spend on their regional business life, and they want to send the same money through Sanner's state minions. The government doesn't understand Nord-Norway when they think it's better to control even more centralised than that there are job opportunities in Finnmark. Nor does the government understand North Norway or Norway when they repeatedly crush the piglet of our children and grandchildren, use more and more oil money and spend 20 billion. kr on tax cuts, with no special effect, than on the community. I am aware that the Right and Advance Party say that we black paint when we address this development with cut and centralization. But it's because the Workers' Party has faith in the development in the North, that we believe that the Northern Norwegian people's elected representatives should have more of the money to control themselves for their part of the country. It is because we believe in development that we will strengthen the industrial clusters, the bioeconomy, technology development, aquaculture and fisheries. It's because we believe in the development of the north, that we want to revitalise the north, and it's because we have faith in the development, that we are increasing the municipal budgets, and that we believe that you can control more of your own development where it actually happens, and not centralize.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3943	A few weeks ago, a new six-year-old coal went into the school gate for the very first time — excited, full of anticipation, full of curiosity and full of learning. These six-year-olds have some of the most important years of their life ahead of them right now. During the first years of school, they're going to crack the reading code, learn to calculate, learn to write, learn the first words in English and much, much more. It is in the first years of school that the basis for further learning is laid, and therefore the first years of school are so crucial. I have a hope that we will look back on 2016 as the year when we politicians seriously took responsibility for all children getting a good start to school, because unfortunately it is not like that today. We have a good school in Norway. Thousands of teachers do a great job every day, but nevertheless there are some students who feel that they are not getting the help and follow-up they need, who may need a little more time with their teacher to get grips on plus and minus or to be able to crack the reading code, but who experience that the teacher doesn't have time. The result is that knowledge gaps arise, and these students get a worse basis for further learning than they should. Some people keep repeating that the solution is better teachers. I don't think the problem is that the teachers aren't good enough, I think the problem is that the teachers don't have enough time. That's why I think the most important thing we can do is give teachers enough time — enough time to follow up on each student. Then we need more teachers at the lowest class steps. Early school effort and more teachers in 1–4. class has therefore been one of the main priorities of the Christian People's Party during this ageing period. The Christian People's Party therefore wants a national standard for teacher density at school level. My hope is that we will be able to have a majority for this policy this year on the Stortinget. But – school is not just about basic skills. Schools are also about socialisation, attitudes and values. The school shall develop whole people, not human calculators. That's why it's important that the circulation is also assigned to the school. Ten years ago, we got the promise of knowledge in Norwegian school. Now, in the Christian People's Party, we believe that the Knowledge Promise must be followed up with a value pledge – a valuelift that ensures that the values drawn out in the school's purpose paragraph not only become honorary in a legal text, but values that permeate school life and help to shape the students and in that way also the society they are to be part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3959	As a good lubrication, I am generally happy with things that are negotiable and can be sold! But as a social democrat, I say no to the government's desire to sell Norway. In the Working Party, we want to own resources like water, forest and fish together – not sell away from the feet because of what can only be described as right-wing ideological convulsions. The same indebtedness in labour policy. The Working Environment Act is the labour movement's legacy, which the Right Party and the Progress Party will now sell to the highest bidder. We now see specifically from the Right an attempt to copy the strategy from 2013 – a bridge will be decorated one year before the election. Policies are packed into so many layers that it may be difficult to see differences between Michelin and the Minister of Labour. He who was a red cloth for workers is replaced by a government council that walks around and thinks she's a kind of motivational coach or career counsellor. However, policies and objectives are far too far-reaching – justice and regulation in the labour market should be removed. Where Right Laughs as if nothing should happen, fortunately, the Progress Party is liberatingly honest at what they want. Since the 2013 national meeting, where Siv Jensen said she wanted to replace the Norwegian model with the Progress Party model, the party has systematically worked to weaken ordinary people's rights in the workplace. The new draft Progress Party application shows its right-wing policy its true face. The sum of the proposed policies is a total violation of the Norwegian working life model. The lot will have more use of temporary additions, the lot will weaken the trade unions and have local contracts for longer working days. It has no ambition to fight social dumping and even assesses even less pay and the day of retirement for people who get sick. The most serious thing about it is that we've seen that the Progress Party has got through at Right in this period, and the result of four new years with such a combination will be very serious. It will provide less security for work and less security in work, greater differences between people and a colder society where someone is inside and someone is outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3969	As soon as the Labour Party joins the government next fall, we're going to reverse the general right to temporary additions, so that the main rule of Norwegian working life becomes firm again, whole settings. We want to remove work contracts without pay between jobs, we want to tighten the rules for hiring labour, we want more effective action to fight social dumping and crime at work. The labour market has many challenges. The problem is that the government does not meet any of them. Therefore, Norway needs a working party that is at the forefront of the safety of all workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3972	For us in the Workers' Party, work for everyone and evening out differences is the most important thing. After three years of dark blue government, the differences have been greater – between poor and rich, between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs, between women and men. Then the answer is not tax cut to those who already have the most. We will then need to take action to get more new jobs. Then we have to use the policy to smooth out the differences. In eight years with the red-green government, 360,000 more jobs were created in Norway, two out of three in the private sector. Under this government, 25 000 new jobs have been created so far, and three out of four of them are in the public sector. It appears that tax cuts do not lead to more jobs, which has long been claimed by the Right Party and the Progress Party. We're content to bet on more innovation. It's a shame when Norway loses on international rankings when it's up to being good at innovation. In the Global Innovation Index, we have fallen from 14th place to 22nd place. This is not good enough. We need to become more innovative. We need to facilitate more innovation through challenge, through the instrumentation and through economic policy. Entrepreneurship, innovation, ICT and coding must become a major part of education – as basic knowledge, not just as an optional subject. We need to provide more places of study within ICT, and we need to have a professional career – and we need to make sure that the equipment is up-to-date in a professional field, because we know that when it comes to both automation and ICT, there is a great lack. We can't live with that. We also need to get more girls into technical subjects. If we're going to become more innovative, we need to use all our forces. Norway has the sexiest labour market in Europe, and young people to choose, very traditional. I want young people to have twice as many opportunities, and everyone to take advantage of their talents. Then we have to have an instrument that is constantly renewing with regard to today's needs. We have to make sure that good ideas get capital to develop and commercialize. We can do that with, among other things, the accelerator programme, which we have now proposed for several years. I have contact with many entrepreneurs, and the message is that capital access is a major challenge. Another response I often get is that it is too difficult to use our tool. It takes too long to search for what they get. Then it doesn't hold with a rule board like this and still hasn't started its work – we just have to start doing something.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e3991	Meetings with individuals on the sidelines of the world of work always make an impression. The insecurity that has affected both individuals, entire families, children and communities has now overshadowed most. Too many people have desperately had to find out whether the mortgage can still be paid, or whether the sale or transfer is the only possible. With that as a hindrance, I can admit that it has been arduous to go home to the West during the weekends of the last few years. The focus of the Party-Fremskritsparte government has had three main ingredients: tax relief – barely new jobs are created; 25 000 new jobs are created in three years and actually two out of three in the otherwise right-hand public sector sales of Norway and privatisation in different ways — both of major joint investments such as the Fly train and also of State forest and fishing quotas; increasing disparities — through tax cuts to those who have the most history, between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs, and through social insecurity by generalising temporary jobs and underestimating social dumping; The Norwegian model is now challenged by high unemployment rates, deliberately increasing disparities and a lack of respect for the importance of party cooperation. Many will remember the party leader and finance minister Siv Jensen, who thought that the Norwegian model was in the way of the Norwegian people. Now we see the dismantling. In Rogaland, there are nearly 11,000 unemployed. If the government actually believes — as was stated in the census — that work is Norway’s most important resource, they must stop piling with initiatives that work. For example, the trade power was totally absent when the parties required an improvement in the law of the permit to make use of Norway’s most important resource. In Haugesund, Labour Party rapporteur Arne-Christian Mohn strives to balance the municipality's budget after 20 years of right-wing rule. When you start the year with 165 million. kr i minus and the country's highest unemployment rate, you have to be pretty close to the Right-Top to come up with the idea that it is tax cuts that are the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4014	We have an unusually demanding year behind us for our country. Strong fall in oil prices, increasing unemployment and extreme refugee situations have seen the government, the Stortinget and many others on trial. Thanks to a powerful government, we are about to reverse the negative developments in record time. The impact of refugee policy has been tightened, business policy has gained momentum in other businesses, and an action package of 4 billion. South and Western kr has slowed down in this part of the country. Today, the government is also launching a 650 million package. kr. There is no doubt that Norway is on its way out of crisis, and the government has delivered it monar. The government has facilitated growth and value creation in the districts by providing companies with good conditions to create more jobs and bet on innovation. Workplaces are the basis of all communities. Therefore, the government has reduced taxes and prioritised knowledge, infrastructure and innovation. In total, the government has reduced taxes and charges by 18 billion. kr since 2013. For industry, specific reductions in the taxation of enterprises, reduced taxes on wealth, the extension of the tax FUNN scheme and simplifications of the VAT system are important. This gives business more money to spend on creating jobs. The government has also strengthened its commitment to industrial research and innovation by 2.4 billion. kr, including the tax deduction realised for the TAX FUNN scheme. It provides more research and development in industry and the basis for new products and services that provide new value creation and growth. The government is dedicated to stimulating entrepreneurial activity and delivering the country’s first business start-up plan. The plan was followed up by 400 million. kr. extra to entrepreneurs in 2016. In Sogn and Fjordane we see the results of this. When we look at the list of companies that are engaging in exciting development and which are creating future jobs, both in our state and nationally, more have been supported by the national support apparatus. We'll find you, among other things. nLink in Sogndal, which makes robots for the construction industry, the Brothers Aa in Hyen, who make fast boats with carbon, the Lefdal Mine Datasenter, the Avans in Dale in Sunnfjord, the Moods of Norway and the GRS Riflestock, which create goggles in my home municipality Hornindal. There are many reasons why these companies have grown up in our state, such as the exciting entrepreneurial environment in several places in Sogn and Fjordane, local capital and natural resources. Most people also benefit greatly from competent people locally, including those in the community. Innovation Norway. When we take with the government its important yes to mineral extraction in the Engebøjellet, I am very proud to say that the government is making an important contribution to creating future jobs in Sogn and Fjordane, and in this way it is helping to create growth and development in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4031	As individuals as well as as as society, we notice when people are having trouble getting a job. It's always been like that. The new thing is that we have a government that doesn't take unemployment seriously enough, while most of us know someone who's struggling on the labour market. Of course, the major challenges we have heard related to the oil regimes in the South-West are spreading to other jobs and businesses in municipalities and counties that are a different part of the oil business. Westfold is a good example of this. We have several skills companies that have had to reduce the number of employees due to the decline in oil extraction, such as the United Kingdom. Agility in Tønsberg. So Westfold is one of the states where unemployment increases most. About 3,800 were registered without a job in September, 7 pst. more than last year at the same time. The horticulture is highest at 4.1 p.m., and the unemployment rate is also increasing strongly in Tønsberg, especially high levels of unemployment among engineers and in the field of ICT. Everyone knows that it is not just the individual who has no job, who is hit, but the whole family – and the kids. In different ways, they may risk experiencing the extravagance that arises when family income fails and explanations are to be given as to why mother or father does not work or what they work with. That is why the struggle for work is one of the main issues of the Workers' Party. Our joint efforts to ensure the proper integration of refugees are also affected when unemployment increases and jobs are lacking. I want to point out the good work done in Larvik and at Thor Heyerdahl high school, with combination classes that provide rapid education for young refugees who want to go to work. It provides the basis for a better everyday life for those who want to find a place in Norwegian society – an example and an arrangement that we should use in all schools around. But there are also expectations about jobs as well as the ability to support themselves. Therefore, we need jobs and measures that can accommodate all those who need a job. There are a lot of reasons to want a new government. The most important thing is to replace the idea that tax cuts to the richest are the most important, and to put work to everyone and a serious working life at the forefront, as the Workers' Party wants. It is only a strong community that will continue to be our safest card to provide work for all in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4046	In the census, it was pointed out that we need to understand that change is required to achieve our societal goals, but also that it will require ability and will to change. We need a further development of the Norwegian economy, and we need more jobs with high value creation – we need more bones to stand on! The Mantra from the Workers' Party today has been that the transition has almost stopped, and that it has not been stimulated to grow in private business during this period. It's clear rhetoric! I choose to believe that the Norwegian people see that the guard that the sitting government has had has been more demanding than the time that they had red-green. Despite good times, the employment actually went down then, and the Labour Party did not use the action space to rig Norway for tougher times. This has suffered from Norway, and the job of arming our country for the future must be done today! We must ensure that jobs are created before both existing and new areas. We must ensure that technological development benefits everyone. We need to ensure a management tool that will be able to provide the best services to our citizens. Norway is one of the most digitised countries in the world. Many of the services we use today did not exist five years ago. Development will continue and it will accelerate. Both residents and businesses will expect Norway to become a smarter society where good growth conditions for the future are certain. Old tools cannot be solved. We see that Norway is now handling the conversion. It has worked with new policies and targeted actions: record bets on the road and the track public sector reorganisation and simplification strengthening incentives for research and development; grapple strengthening Norwegian ownership But we still have great tasks ahead of us, tasks that will need both optimism, momentum and cooperation. Norway needs a path that points to, and that opens up, to take advantage of the possibilities that our country has. No one knows the future, but we can facilitate good growth conditions, with an interaction between technology development and digitisation that will solve our future challenges within both transport, energy, climate, environment and health. And maybe it's right here that our "new oil" is lying. This government has both the ability and the will to participate in the changes of a digitized and smart society!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4086	If we're to secure work for everyone, make the differences between people less so that the nation together gets stronger, we have to use the whole country and give opportunities to everyone. The Labour Party, through its history, has had many good slogans, which clearly represent political direction and priority. Two of the slogans for which I am most enthusiastic are the «All the people at work» and the «By and Land hand in hand». They're timeless and equally topical. In particular, after three years of right-wing policy, they have increased inequality in the labour market, between people and between cities and countries. In the languages of the throne, we could hear that we should create values throughout the country, both in central and districts. The rest of my post shall be about high-speed broadband – or, to put it more simply, the lack of such a type. Good broadband is absolutely essential for us to create values across the country. For the future of District Norway broadband coverage is particularly important for good development. Distances are erased, well, notice if you have network access and it goes fast enough. But the situation is getting critical. Digital development, which only accelerates, which we politicians support, is not followed up with the necessary infrastructure. That's when people in too many communities in our country are put on the sidelines. People with energy and ingenuity, businesses, children and young people do not get the opportunities to expect in a modern society, are not allowed to unfold as they could. These are people we expect or demand to use the digital solutions we in the public sector rigged up, more and more without alternatives. It can't go on like that. My home country, Uppland, has the worst broadband coverage in the country. Not long ago, I met politicians from the mountain region in the interior who had great faith in the future, but who were reasonably doubtful about the broadband situation – impatient, natural enough. Network problems do not only affect peripheral municipalities. I recently talked to the sole proprietor in Snertingdal in the municipality of Gjøvik: a workshop that had to travel several kilometres to find cover each time he ordered car parts, which he did quite often, and another one, who had to go to a café in the city to attend video conferences with his international employer and his colleagues. According to the Class Fight, the Right Party and the Advance Party have made sure that the country’s 50 richest have averaged 20 million. kr each in tax cuts. At the same time, they have gone in to cut the state aid for broadband development by 100 million. kr both in 2015 and 2016. 50 million. kr would remain in the budget line, if not the large majority had put down their feet and got back a good part of it. So for the government, it's more important to give tax cuts to three of the richest countries than to ensure broadband expansion, because the amount of the three richest ones is higher than the government would actually spend on broadband. Then it becomes fairly free to talk about creating values across the country, both in central and districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4100	There is no doubt that the fall in oil prices has been reflected in Norway in general and not least in my own country, Rogaland, in particular. Many people have had to adjust to a whole new day of work, and many, especially among young people, have lost their jobs and have had to change their future plans. I am therefore very pleased that we are now seeing that the measures that the government has taken are starting to work. Slowly, but I'm sure the unemployment rates in Rogaland are going down. With a blue-blue policy that contributes to activity and conversion, I am optimistic on behalf of both Norway and Rogaland. While there is no quick fix on changing labour markets and assumptions, targeted and sensible measures have an impact. In the revised national budget this year, 250 million were spent. kr channelled to the municipalities of the South and Western countries for the maintenance and rehabilitation of roads, buildings and installations. These are good investments that contribute both to improving the infrastructure and to improving the labour market. I would also like to highlight some concrete measures that the government has taken and which I am convinced will help to improve the situation for many. In order to prevent the perms from discontinuing education, the government has been amended to allow the perms to continue training without losing their daily allowances. This encourages both education and change. Money was also allocated to 1,000 additional action places in a youth initiative. This was added to the current system, where young people under 30 are already a priority group. Facilitating young people who are affected by unemployment to take on-the-job training is very important, in addition to the fact that more young people will be able to complete secondary education, whether they are lacking individual courses or need to improve their grades. Here, too, the government has delivered. One key element here is also the large increase in the apprentice grant. Since the Right and Advance Party took over, the apprentice grant has increased by NOK 17 500. We know that apprentices are a particularly vulnerable group in a situation of economic decline and rising unemployment. Such a concrete and strong commitment to the apprenticeship grant is important and helps to give a clear signal to the companies that the government is serious about its professional investment. We in the Progress Party are going to work on this to continue, so that we can provide a basis for increased employment and value creation in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4117	Last right, four years in government, the voter's answer was clear: one would no longer have large tax cuts, the privatisation of the school and the starvation of the municipalities. Right in the government was met with one of the most poor elections in the Right Party, and Erna Solberg led the party out of the government. After that, Erna Solberg wrote his book «Humans, not billions». You should have a softer Right – not a calculator party, but a Right that spoke more like the parties on the left: more about well-being, less about tax cuts. It would turn out to be a strategy that worked. The right won the election three years ago. And what has happened now? Well, at the end of the period we know the answer: the right part is the same as the right part that it has always been. «Humans, not billions» was a fine slogan, but when we see what they have prioritised, we should think the book had a spelling error. Erna Solberg's book should be called "Humans With Billions", because that's really what we've been given – a government with the greatest heart for those who have the biggest wallets. The poor have been cut off from the holiday money, the elderly have lost their culture, the school children have lost their school fruit. The promotion party proposes a large cut in the sick pay – a small cut, and those who have been hit do not have to wonder where the money has been spent. The money has been spent on those who have the most. Today we have again received proof. The 50 richest people in Norway have received a thousand million dollars in tax cuts from this government – triple loads of millions driven out to those who have the most. It's so unfair that you hardly think it's true. I challenge the right parties to find the voices that think this is the right priority. Ask their neighbors, their children, their siblings or their grandchildren: Is it true that the 50 richest people in Norway will receive 20 million dollars. Who? Or could we spend that money differently, at school, at health or to create new jobs? I don't think many people think this is a proper priority. I don't think you'll find anyone. On the contrary, it tears in our sense of justice. But in this room we find more. This morning we got clean words for the money. What does the Right really think about the fact that 50 people have more tax cuts than 2,000 people make a year? Well, it's quite ‘fantastic’, the black Right parliamentary leader. We have a government that operates a policy for greater differences. I understand Right won't talk about this, but that's the brutal reality. That's what the Norwegian people will answer if they want to continue next year. Then I think it will go as the last Erna Solberg ruled Right in the government: the people say no to unsoldarian tax cuts and yes to a new majority and a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4132	One of the prerequisites for succeeding in transformation and innovation in the future is that welfare systems make those who actually need them. These schemes are the social security networks and contribute to the functioning of the labour market. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary for the sustainability of the welfare society that the arrangements are not burdensome, bureaucratic or – even worse – exploited and eroded by those who do not really need them. It is that the welfare systems are largely administered by Nav, and if you make work one of the most important jobs for Nav, as former Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson wanted, you will get to secure people's work and, I would say, a more meaningful everyday life. It creates greater self-respect for those involved, and it increases the value of society. It's a win-win situation for everyone. This fall we will be dealing with here on the Stortinget Nav message. In this regard, my colleague Wiborg and I have traveled a lot around here in Norway. Among other things, we have host to NAV Tvedestrand and NAV Veggershei, both of whom are in my home country, east of Agder. There we learned about the challenges and opportunities that Nav's own employees see, and it's been very instructive. I have also made it an important task to receive recordings from individuals and their experience with Nav. Often I hear stories both about things that work, and about things that don't work. Among other things, I have have received many enquiries from young people who experience that the rules are rigid and difficult. That's why I appreciate the youth effort we're going to deal with in the state budget this fall, and one of the most important things for me is that Nav is getting better with youth. Nav needs to understand young people and their needs, and Nav needs to have the right tools. Then also the youth has to understand what Nav says and needs, and they have to take responsibility for their own lives. So a little bit of traffic while I'm at it: Rv. 9, which goes through both East Agder and West Agder, has been and will be one of my heart matters as long as I am a staging representative and can be involved and influence. Rv. 9 is important for all those who travel between the South and the West. There's a lot of heavy traffic going on here, which makes it dangerous for those who live along the road. But we're now working for yellow middle stripe throughout the Seatesdal, and so it was with great joy I could travel to Seatesdal last week, with an ever so small budget leak, yes actually two. The government proposes in the 2017 budget that there will be a path to walking and cycling between Valle and Harstadberg – a road that is not yet developed – it is very important to ensure that children and young people get a safe and safe school path. In addition to this walk and bike path, there is also money, 30 million. kr, to the next construction step in Seatesdal, which is Skommedal. This makes it continuous expansion, we get cheaper and faster roads, local entrepreneurs get the expansions, and it's safer to live and travel in Seatesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4149	If there are three things that happen when the right parties take power all over the world, then there is great welfare protection, there is great tax cuts, and there are ideological privatisations of great state-owned resources – owned by the people. In Norway, we have the highest measured unemployment rate of two decades in our country. Nevertheless, it is hardly mentioned enough in this debate on the throne by the Right and the representatives of the Progress Party, but it is often produced in glossy images, led by Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Economic policy is strong, says the Prime Minister. Yes, so strong that around 140,000 individuals are unemployed — or what the government calls being relocated. At the same time, 15,000 students drop out of school every year, because they can't master their own lives. The response of young people and the unemployed is tax cut. What was the really question? Even if you think that Nicab is the government's job no. one when you heard the representative Nesvik today, it is tax cut to the richest – even if it is not mentioned in writing. It's not popular a year before the election. Nor does it have to be a parliamentary leader or to have come to side 420 in the social economist Stoltenberg's book to understand that there is a difference in the spending of money in a state budget. My grandfather also spent a lot of money once he dug out the plot and built a house in which my family and grandmother were to live. I think it would have been very unpopular if he were going home to build that house with materials he had bought, rather had gambled away the money. The criticism of a visionless government does not necessarily depend on increasing the use of money, in terms of spending money, on financing the rich's tax bonds with our common pension funds. Instead, we could have prioritised welfare. You could have said that we want to clean up old nursing homes where there are older people. They're not worth that price. We could have gotten more people working. It seems that the only goal of the entrepreneurial policy is to sell out companies that succeed, instead of building clusters of skills. And we could have invested in all those who don't get the learning space. During 2017, the Workers' Party will carry out the biggest transformation our country will see. We're going to replace the whole government. And as a common acquaintance of us, I have ten advices for them: one is that you have to be converted. It's important to make a self-help effort. It is important to have mobility and be willing to move. It is important to be willing to try new industries and be willing to fill the gaps in the CV when you are converted, when Jonas Gahr Støre becomes prime minister in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4164	I want to tell you a little bit about the stand in Telemark, and it's not random, because Telemark is often characterised as a Norway in miniature. Large, scattered and complex Telemark needs a government that understands us better than what today's government is doing. I'll illustrate this in three ways. Firstly, Telemark has a large industry, with employees who are on too high productivity every day and contribute to value creation – an industry that manages a lot by itself, but which also depends on good framework conditions in order to be able to operate well in the future. I want to bring out the INEOS in Bamble in this context. INEOS produces plastic raw materials exported to large parts of the world. The British INEOS owners want to invest $8 billion. kr in the Bamble factory and therefore asked the State to provide the guarantor for loans from the banks. But so far the government has said no. Bamble, Telemark and Norway need a government that understands the need to use more State instruments, such as: loan guarantees, in order to help increase investment in the mainland industry. It is about securing both value creation and jobs for the future. Secondly, in industry, people have to perform and deliver. Good health is an important prerequisite. The Telemark Hospital is in the process of implementing what has been called a development plan, such as: has led to the closure of two local hospitals. In other words, it's taken quite a rough hold in our county, but we feel that we're getting pretty little left. We need a government that pays attention to the health services in Telemark, which ensures that existing building stock is rehabilitated and which provides not least for the construction of a new bed building in Skien. Thirdly, do not sell Norway – do not sell Telemark. In Telemark we have a lot of forest, and the forest thrives in Telemark. It is not without reason that Drangedal, the municipality of forest, has the slogan ‘Four million trees can’t be wrong!’. The government has ensured that ever-increasing forest properties are offered for sale, properties that are also located in Telemark. Our common forest is our common resource. Forests contribute to value creation and recreation. We need a government that understands that that's enough now. The solution is not to sell, but to facilitate growth also in our common forest. We need a government – a new government – that understands Telemark and Norway better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4177	We have come to that department in the debate that is much about Norway around, and a report from Uppland is not as gloomy as many have been in the pulpit here and described. In Oppland we've set Norway's record in the number of nights spent in the summer. July was the first time Uppland had most nights in the country. With over 612,000 overnight stays it was actually also a new Norwegian record in one month – with good margins. So it's not all flat in Uppland and Inland. In fact, most of them are working in Uppland. The availability is stable – on record low 1.7 pst. Yes, we have so many jobs that both travel and agriculture depend entirely on foreign labour. With a varied and small-scale travel life in the Gudbrand valley, in Valdres and in the flatlands, many small business owners are pleased that the wealth tax has been reduced and the money can be spent on skills and product development. It's a small, but green shift going on in Norwegian travel life. This year is the first year in which my home town, Gjøvik, is a university city. NTNU has come to the East and has chosen the Gjøvik High School as its base. It will be a major contributor to further growth and innovation, for Gjøvik, of course, but not least for industrial clusters on Raufoss and for the whole of West Oppland, even the whole Uppland and the hinterland. But we're not going to rest on the green bay leaves. We need the state to help lift material technology clusters on Raufoss to the Global Centres of Expertise status to contribute to the green industrial shift in Norway. Next year, the first of ten new trainsets will be delivered on the Gjøvik Railway. There will be new crossing tracks on the track and a new station area. Today's majority have promised double tracks to Lillehammer by 2030. The previous government stopped Hamar and put everything on Gjøvikbanen until after 2023. Four-field E6 will arrive at Mjøsbrua by 2021 and will proceed to Øyer. In the long-term plan for the defense, it's set at $9 billion. kr the following years for the gathering and development of the Cyber Defense at Jørstadmoen. This is an important investment for Norway the most, but of course for Defence and for the whole of the country. So there are significant investments, significant opportunities. Then Uppland and Hedmark also have some serious challenges. Our counties top the statistics on suicide among young boys. We have a high rate of dropout in high school, and we have quite a number of overdose deaths in the two counties. These are the welfare challenges we face, and we need to take political leadership to solve these challenges. I call on the Labour Party, which has the county rapporteur in the two counties, who has the rapporteur in most municipalities: where are you to equip that youth for future working life? That's what the job is in our two counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4196	The head of the SV and some of his colleagues were earlier today on a topic that concerns many in the big cities, and also in my hometown, Oslo. Of course, I'm thinking about housing policy. So SV made sure to start the session by putting housing on the agenda, and I am happy about that. The representative Lightbakken believes that we need ‘a housing policy that assumes that housing is something you live in, not something you wonder about’, as he said. But it's just rhetoric. If we look at the practical policy SV has proposed in the last few weeks, we see that they want to introduce a national housing tax that will just ensure that we do not look at people's homes as a place where they will live, and a place where their children will grow up, but rather as a tax item in which they will pay even more to live. Can anyone in SV refer to a single economist in Norway who agrees that a national housing tax will dampen the price in the press areas? Can anyone in SV tell the Norwegian population how high housing tax must be in the whole country to reduce the housing price? Can anyone in SV tell us why they believe it is fair that a single mother in the village has to pay housing taxes to dampen the price pressure in Oslo? Both the Workers' Party and SV are trying to appear to be very hurt and despaired about the situation in the housing market, but they have no credibility. Let's erase all the rhetoric and look at the politics of these parties. SV voted in favour of 1 100 fewer dwellings than the City Council of the Right provided for in the period 2011-2015. The Labour Party also voted for fewer dwellings than the City Council provided. The working party and SV participated in pressing through a proposal in Stortinget just before the summer that will make it 100 000 kroner more expensive to build a house of 60 m2. The working party and SV forced through an apartment standard in Oslo that has set a roof for the construction of small dwellings in Oslo Centre, so that we build at least one of the things that is most sought after, and they still refuse to remove the norm. In the summer, SV launched a proposal that the state should build all dwellings, and that we have to have government price regulation, so that we can go right back to the time with money under the table, and then I ask: Who are the lucky winners of this Lotto prize that SV will distribute, and what about those who don't have a lot of cash to pay under the table? No answer. The light hill went out earlier this summer and said it is cowardly not to introduce a national house tax. But if we look at the policies they have implemented, I believe it is cowardly to come back to the Stortinget now and ask for a national housing tax in response to the fact that you have not even delivered it when you were responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4214	I represent a state that the government doesn't want, not want to bet on, but build down and dismantle – strong words, yes, it is, but then real people in Sogn and Fjordne have also got a sense of what right policies are in practice. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have helped me stop the closure of the Fisheries Directorate in Måløy, the Fureneset Research Station in Fjaler and others as well. Work for all, prosperity for all and well-being until all are best created through strong communities. The Right Party and the Progress Party increase differences by giving tax cuts to those who have the most in their life, rather than investing in work, education, health and school. Differences also increase between those with safe jobs and those with unsafe jobs, between town and country, and between women and men. And then we're talking about conversion as if this is a new word. Hydro Elkem in my state has been working on conversion for as long as I can think. The farmers have changed and changed, and the fishermen have changed as well. But it doesn't just help with conversion, it has to be arranged to create new jobs, and here the speech clearly shows that the government is using the wrong medicine. At the Labour Party's watch, about 360 000 new jobs were created, under today's government only 24 000. The solution will be tried to explain it to you. The government is not even concerned, they even have rented prison places abroad, instead of building in Vik at half price, and have Norwegian jobs. And why does the government not respond to this debate on the main challenge no. One? How should they facilitate more new jobs in the private sector? How to get more people to work? It would be an entirely honest matter if they had fought and lost. But no, when they don't even try, yes, the government has failed. So to the government's exaggeration of faith in the market and the private. The commercialisation of the airport in Florø has led to the cutting of evening routes and morning routes, and more expensive tickets are the consequence. Good for business? No, no, no. Good for the people? No, no, no. In our county we have a new private Christian school with two – two – elephants. Is there a proper use of community resources and a good enough professional and social use for students? No, no, no. The labor party wants to build the country, we don't want to sell the country. We want the people to have water, forests and fish together. We're supposed to be the guarantor that the fish resources are going to belong to the community. The fishing fleet shall be owned by the fishermen and the nationality requirement shall be maintained. We don't have to put ourselves in a situation where quotas can end up on foreign hands. The fish is an eternal resource, he belongs to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4231	When times become troubled, it is human to seek security: security in everyday life, for one's own economy, for work and for the family. Work, activity and conversion have marked the government's political work in the year that went on, and will also do so in the coming year. An important challenge has been to ensure that unemployment affecting parts of our country does not snap to a long-term high level, as it did when the Workers' Party ruled the country in the 1990s. This is why the government’s targeted measures for the regions most affected by unemployment have been so important. Fortunately, we now see signs that trends are turning around and policy is working. In my home country, West-Agder, which has been severely affected by the fall in the oil sector, Nav Director Per Lund was able to conclude last Friday that unemployment is now down to 3.4 pst. It's actually below the level at the same time last year. He assumed that the bottom was now reached in the South, and that the leave would fall beyond the harvest. It gives hope to many families who have experienced this body uncertainty. The instrument has been put into use, start-up grants, TaxFUNN, research funds, eco-innovation funds and Enova funds have contributed to activity, innovation and re-establishment. A good example is a small three-man company in Kristiansand that I visited last week, where three engineers are involved in product development for the oil and energy industry. They are soon ready to launch a new product by means of the tool package for which the Minister of Industry has broken down, and it can lead to more work in the coming period. Together with the fiscal and action packages, the instrument contributes to both employment and turnover. This is also documented by the Statistical Central Bureau, which states that economic policy has made a significant contribution to the fact that the fall in oil has not led to an even more significant decline in the Norwegian economy. And the Cappelen Committee was clear that fiscal policy has been and is expansive, and that this has dampened the decline in the economy. I also want to say a few words about education policy and how it has worked in our part of the country. While teachers complained a lot about a lack of further training before the government change in 2013, we now have almost 1000 teachers in the Agder counties who have been granted such an offer under the current Minister of Knowledge. Gågebostad and Audnedal municipalities have become language municipalities, Kristiansand, Arendal, Risør and Gjerstad have become real-class municipalities, and in the Songdalen municipality, "kidsa" encoding is optional. It's forward-looking knowledge policy that works, that's going to track.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4242	It has been a long day, but nevertheless it has given an interesting clarification, namely that the Workers' Party has indirectly said that the ratio between private employment and public employment is important. It is simply because it is the private sector that finances public welfare. Without profits from business activities, without the ability of enterprises to pay wages to their employees, of which the state once again receives its abundant share, the municipality and the state and their politicians had not had a single crown to distribute for good purposes. That's why it sounds a little hollow when the Workers' Party accuses the civil government of three-quarters of all job growth in the last public sector. This must necessarily be the case when a large and important sector and its suppliers are being scaled down. Until this comes up again, this will of course be the picture. At the same time, it is discouraging to hear red-green rhetoric take into account the creation of value in society. Do you understand what you're talking about in the Workers' Party and SV when you're talking about value creation? Some of their representatives remind – with all due respect – of people who have not put their legs in a private enterprise other than perhaps with a protective helmet on which it says ‘guests’. It is also noted in the mention of policies and jobs. It seems that safe jobs are something you can buy or regulate. It's not like that, it's the ideas, the patents, the efficient production and the sale that decide whether a job once it's established remains safe. It is the general conditions and competitiveness of enterprises that prevent job creation or relocation. Then, of course, it is self-contradictory to attack businesses for profit, or – to use a frequent red-green-sided example here in the debate – that they are commercial. The commercials have like impure motives. But it's just the profit they generate, which makes jobs safe, that provides profitability, and that attracts private savings for further growth. You can mark the entire palette of the most demeaning characteristics of those who fund the welfare state and who give politicians – us – money to appear generous. But money must be made in the private sector before it can be used in the public sector. We have heard in today's debate, tuned to the red, words such as 'welfare profitors', 'commercial' and 'profit-making'. So it's the red-green talk that wasted money. This is especially true when private actors do not exist, but that is what we need to do if we are to achieve a better ratio between public and private employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4253	The government signals great ambitions to contribute to the reduction of emissions of harmful greenhouse gases. The Paris agreement testifies that Norway takes the green shift seriously. This gives our nation great potential with the technical competence and the innovation power that lies in different knowledge clusters in our country. We have a highly competent maritime environment with regard to both language technology, electrical frequency technology, hybrid propulsion system and gas-powered vessels. Norway has a knowledge environment to make progress from research to green revolution. It is only for decision, requirement and implementation. Many Norwegian fleets, shipyards and technology companies are slipping over these challenges. The conversion gives room to tighten up the course. It is Norwegian maritime competence to address the challenges of low-emission technology and the green shift. Energy-efficient vessels can best be developed in Norway, and the world will ask for Norwegian solutions. Then it must also be built in Norway, by the Norwegian shipyard. In the next six to eight years, a series of new ferries will be built for billions of dollars. There we have to put the strictest demands in the world on clean energy and green technology. Our technological advantages will also be a competitive advantage – there must be so stringent demands that Norwegian innovation power is needed to resolve the contract requirements. With financial support from Enova, we record that many companies provide viable solutions. International cooperation agreements must exist. Nevertheless, we see that agreements are bypassed, given the conditions of competition. Financing schemes are changing the investment from Norway to other countries, tax leases and other foreign grips are being raised to win contracts. This must be overcome — and with this also the technological environment race. It is good to see that the government has given clear notice to build three new coastguard vessels, both to maintain safety in the Norwegian territory and because the vessels are to be built in Norway. Sovereignty can also be further developed first with new low-carbon technologies there. We should also have the ambition in the future to focus on maritime innovation and technological innovation. Here, the government provides the necessary solutions to support more jobs, better jobs and more value creation, which we will live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4269	Today we have 29,000 young people under 30 who are out of work. Nav will assess and determine whether they are able to work, but many of them will not receive much follow-up. After four years, most people are longer away from work than they were when they joined the redundancy fund scheme – or what we call the AAP. It can't go on like that. Fortunately, we have a government that is capable of action and will do something about this. The government set up an expert selection that went through Nav thoroughly. Last year the sample came with the report «An NAV with opportunities», and now in the autumn we will deal with the grossing up message «NAV for a new time – for work and activity». The government is proposing a number of legislative changes. The aim is to reduce the number of young people on health-related benefits and to increase their participation in education and work. The work clearance system has not worked as intended. The goal was to get more involved in a follow-up course that could lead to work, but many young people experience getting more paid in social benefits than they would get in an unskilled job. It doesn't give any incentives to try out in the workplace. Until now, there has been too much focus on constraints, more focus needs to be moved to mastering and to what you can get to even if your health is not quite 100 pst. The government will give priority to young people’s efforts. A new youth effort shall replace today’s fragmented guarantee schemes. It does not help with constantly new and empty guarantee schemes, for which the Workers' Party, in particular, has a preference. It needs content and action. The government wants Nav to be more action-oriented and to provide more individualised and labour-oriented follow-up to the young people under 30 years of age. Many of the young people who fall out of school and work have mental health challenges. Recent research and experience say that work is good for mental health. Work and treatment should be carried out at the same time as far as possible. You don't have to be 100 pst. fresh to work. Work can be good medicine and drive improvement processes. So we need more employers that give young people a chance outside of work. Nav has to be a good co-player. Last week I read in my local, Asker and Bærums Budstikke that the Nav leaders in Asker and Bærum, in cooperation with the nutrition councils of the two municipalities, have taken the initiative for the campaign "The Most Outstanding Manager". I think it's great with such creative measures, it's important to go new ways. Someone needs a reminder and a call to dare to meet people who are different from themselves, with openness and generosity. I'm going to follow closely on this campaign, and I hope that a lot of bright and inclusive bosses join the competition to become the brightest boss.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4284	Three years ago, the Right pledged to do something about the health cows, engendered in transportation and too little commitment to research and education. The country has been given a new course. Health queues and waiting lists have fallen, especially in the area of drugs and psychiatry. The road and rail maintenance run is being reduced for the first time in many decades. Research efforts have increased significantly. We make sure that the students learn more in school, and never before have so many teachers received continuing education. We give more children access to kindergarten. And we're renewing and improving the public sector. In recent years, some challenges have increased. Prior to the elections, the Right warned against dependence on the oil sector, without leading to the necessary conversion measures. The oil price has been more than halved since the takeover by the government of Solberg, which has led to increased unemployment, especially in the South and West. Targeted actions are now being used to create short-term activity for the regions and sectors most affected, while facilitating safe jobs in the future. Fortunately, we now see positive signals in the economy. Unemployment has decreased in 14 countries in the last year, and Norway’s Bank, the SSB, the NHO and the Working Party all believe that the economy is on its way up again. September was the fourth month in a row where Nav reported fewer unemployed, including in the South. Travel life has had a record summer. The farming industry is doing very well, and so is the construction industry. There are challenges, but there is no need to blackmail the Norwegian economy, as the Labour Party is doing. It seems that the Workers' Party is unable to enjoy anything about brighter prospects for business and jobs, as long as they do not control themselves. An SSB report ordered by the Workers' Party shows that tax incentives create jobs, but the Workers' Party nevertheless considers the most important finding in the report is that public investment is more efficient than tax incentives to create jobs. It is easy to create more jobs in the public sector. The problem is that there are jobs in the private sector that create the values, which can in turn provide jobs in public enterprises. As a member of the Business Committee, I travel a lot and meet large, medium-sized and small businesses across the country, women and men who spend time and money creating jobs and products the world needs. I am impressed by the commitment and the foundation of the Norwegian business community, where there are many examples of this small country creating world-class products and technologies. To date, I have not met a single manager who wants more tax, but I have met many who are concerned with less tax and with framework conditions that enable them to compete with other countries and survive in Norway. Therefore, growth-promoting tax relief for Norwegian business is so important. It strengthens Norwegian ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4301	I'm very happy that we're reducing differences. Because we're reducing the waiting times in the health care system, and that means a lot too many. More people get treatment faster. The quality of the treatment of life-threatening diseases has improved. Wrapping processes for cancer provide rapid diagnosis, predictability and safety for each individual and also for its relatives. We've implemented the golden rule, i.e. that those suffering from mental illness are prioritised in line with those suffering from other diseases. We've legalized the right to happiness's care. The state assumes greater responsibility for the development of care for the elderly, and we have almost doubled grants for the development of care facilities. Persons with a need for assistance have been given the right to help with what they want, when they need it, through the introduction of user-controlled personal assistant. The strategy against child poverty ensures that more people can participate in social arenas, and – as if not enough – free core time in kindergartens for 4- and 5-year-olds in low-income families and lower parental payments for low-income families, also in kindergartens. We have re-registered a free PC for students with difficulty reading and writing after this was an unsocial cut from the Workers' Party. We lower the threshold into the labour market, and we strengthen the fight against the crime of working life. This is to reduce differences. I hear someone in this room has not brought this. It may be a call for not only listening to your own rhetoric, but actually being able to read inside and follow along. That is why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has given priority to refugees in the municipalities. That is why this government, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, has given priority, and not down priority, to the integration grant to the municipalities, in order to get asylum seekers to work more quickly. That's why this government, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, has lowered, not raised, the barriers into working life to get more of those who feel pressured out of work back into working life. That's why this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has reduced, not increased, the waiting time in healthcare to help those who are struggling, back to their everyday lives. It's just all of these things that I've just mentioned, which reduces the differences in Norway. A lot can still get better. Still, this government is needed to do important work, but we are doing well to make changes in important areas that matter to people in everyday life. It is precisely in meeting with the individual that the policy is up to the exam. Then it doesn't help to be just rhetorical about not interacting with private, public and ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4314	One of the things that was up in the throne was the green shift, and over the last few days, there has been a lot of focus on the disagreement between the government parties and the left in terms of environmental policy and the green shift. I'm sure we haven't heard the last of it this fall. What I want to talk about, on the other hand, is an area where we've gotten a lot already, but where there's still a lot of work going on. I want to talk about education policy. For the last three years, we have together followed up the agreement in the cooperation agreement on a teacher's vow in school. There has been a historical commitment to continuing training, and I am convinced that it is both important and necessary. We've started a career opening for the so-called non-qualified teachers in Norwegian school, we've got a health sisters lift in place, and we've got free core time in kindergartens for 4-5 year olds from low-income families. In higher education, the left has received 11 months of student support, we overfill the number of student housing, and there has been a significant increase in both basic and academic appropriations and scholarships in the last three years. Much of the good that has already been done is things that we still have to work with. But there are also other things that are important for us to raise in the future. We have to keep working to secure more skilled teachers into school. Teachers in all courses must be covered by the continuing training obligation. Today, many people with important competences are not given priority because the basic subjects are in line. We know that the future labour market does not exist today, and that our students must be both creative and adaptable. The practical-esthetic subjects are no less important in the future. It is necessary that we also look at the teachers in these subjects, and the Left believes that, in the long term, there should also be a requirement for competence in teaching in these subjects. The left has been for a long time for a certification scheme for teachers. We believe that being a teacher should be a title reserved for those with education and competence. A certification model may be implemented in many different ways, but there are several professional groups that currently have it, thus ensuring that the whole profession remains professionally up to date. We also need to be able to create a daily life for children who act socially equalizing and mobilizing. Knowledge is power, and nothing is so important for social mobility as education. We have to include those that today fall outside due to. economics. After we have introduced free core time in kindergartens, the time has come to look at the SFO price. It is a very important leisure service that many children are not allowed to participate in because it is too expensive. In higher education and research, there has been a lot of this ageing period. But we still have a situation where the old universities have a much better funding than the new universities and colleges. We still have to work to balance this so that we get good education across the country, and so that these institutions too can assert themselves internationally in the areas where they have their advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4333	In the throne, the government determines that the labour force is Norway's most important resource, and that the consideration of our future well-being requires the highest possible participation in the world of work. It is also pointed out that, over the last two years, many have been through a difficult time, that unemployment, especially in the South and West, has increased and that the situation is still severe for many. Much of the foundation for the difficult employment situation in the region is found in the dramatic fall in oil prices from about $110 per barrel in the summer of 2014 to less than $45 per barrel in the summer of 2016. Income and earnings in the oil industry and the tax revenue of the State have fallen. In such difficult times, driven by unbridled international economic conditions, political governance is just so important that it can remedy the difficult employment situation that affects the individual, several communities and now a whole part of the country. This is where the government has failed the most. The measures taken have been too small and too late, and the priorities are wrong when tax cuts have come instead of effort to exploit the most important resource in Norway, the labour force, and ensure that the most likely participa­tion is made in the world of work. In my home country, Hordaland, is 3.3 pst. by the labour force now entirely unemployed. And in my municipality, Stord, is 5 pst. no completely free. That's an increase of 48 pst. in just one year, and the prospects are also very uncertain. When we can also see that in the last three years, only 25,000 new jobs have been created in our country, and that three-quarters of these have come in the public sector, and that doesn't promise a offshore-based industrial community. Through budget leakers, the government has now announced that it will give 650 million maintenance crowns to Western and southern municipalities to reduce unemployment. That's a good promise. Many necessary maintenance and upgrading will be carried out, and some local firms and workers will have an activity for a period of time. Nevertheless, much more effort is needed in order for this part of the country to exploit its potential for value creation. On Monday we received the ‘report on the state of the kingdom’. It is to be hoped that the budget to be presented by the government will stimulate more jobs and that it will not be the ‘report on the state of the kingdom’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4348	The speech of the throne was well received. When you read it afterwards, it's understandable. It describes a well-equipped, modern society, a society with a highly educated population, where there are little differences among people, and an open, robust economy. However, if we are to further develop our society, it requires part of all of us. We must have the ability and the willingness to make the necessary changes and find new solutions. This applies in both the public and private sectors. And not least, we need to maintain a high value creation. It's only with this background that we can maintain what we're talking about as the Norwegian model. We have also experienced in the past that jobs disappear, and companies have to cut down. The problem we have is that there are too few jobs created in the private sector. There are several reasons, and some politicians can't always do anything about it. What we can do with it, we have to do. It is particularly in the field of economic policy, especially fiscal policy. If we're going to get people who have the opportunity to invest in Norwegian jobs, these have to feel like they have something left to do it. Then it has to be, for example. do not differ in the framework conditions for Norwegian owners compared to non-residents. Then it must not be the case that municipalities impose large property taxes on business, which weaken the operating economy and thus jeopardize jobs. In that case, the State tax policy towards the private sector must not lead to such a situation. And once again, the property tax, which affects the many thousands of smaller Norwegian companies, has to be abolished. Maintaining this particular tax inhibits investment and weakens existing operations. It's interesting that representatives from the red-greens kind of deny that the property tax has something to do with this. Perhaps more should be listened to by those who wear the shoe, in this case by the many private owners. We need to protect the Norwegian model. We're proud of that. The finance committee was just in Sweden. That's where they refer to it as the Nordic model. They describe it roughly as we do for the Norwegian. In Sweden, they have budget deficits and loans each year to balance the budgets. In Sweden, they have a slightly higher unemployment rate than is the case here, but they do not have property taxes, they do not have property taxes, and they do not have inheritance taxes. Everyone agrees that such taxes harm the nation and will lead to greater problems than they do. Next year, it's a big shot. We can imagine what we're waiting for, to say it like this. Finally, the policy must be credible. It must provide security for people, and it must provide trust. The individual must be put in the centre, and we must secure the community. For us Liberal Conservatives, this is a matter of course. That's what we call trust policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-04.ana.ud197e4365	So the first day of the debate is over. The President reminds us that the debate on the throne will continue tomorrow at 4 p.m. 10 a.m. and the first speaker is Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like. The meeting has been cancelled.
