ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e84	The former temporary deputy representative of the South-Trøndelag County, Audun Otterstad, has again taken up his seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Marianne Aasen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Ingerd Schou on leave from 30 May to 2 June – all in order to take part in the appointed Grand Delegation to the Czech Republic and Slovakia from the High Council on the leave of the representative Frank J. Jenssen on 30 and 31 May to take part in a study tour of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to Greece from the Workers' Party on the leave of the representative of Hadia Tajik from 30 May to 10 June in order to take part in a strategic crisis management course at the Defence University College These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Akershu County, Are Health, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Marianne Aasen, due to illness. From the first alternate of Oslo, Prableen Kaur, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget from 30 May to 3 June, under the authority of the representative of Hadia Tajik, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For Akershus County: Anne Odenmarck 30 May-2. June For Nordland County: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen 30 May–2. June For Oslo: Vegard Gröslie Wennesland 30 May–3. ==References====External links== June For South-Trundellag counties: Marvin Wiseth 30 May-31. May For Østfold County: Tone Damsleth 30 May–2. June
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e166	The representative of Une Aina Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e169	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to strengthen the system of free legal aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e174	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e190	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e201	The Council of State concentrated its presentation on five key challenges. It is important to remember that the most serious of these – the refugee and migration challenges and the weak economic growth following the financial crisis – are not created in Europe but outside. They are not the result of EU cooperation, but of war and the collapse of countries in the Middle East and Africa and the banking crackdown in the United States. On the contrary, we can wonder what the situation would have been like without EU cooperation, without the institutions and instruments that the European countries have through EU cooperation. We have seen the currents and forces under the pressure of the flood of refugees last year, because the countries together have not been able to get the Schengen and Dublin cooperation to deal with the difficult situation. Many countries turned their backs on common responsibility and instead took the matter into their own hands. We can only know what would become the situation if the option had not been to make these institutions work better, as it is now working on, and as the government supports. We agree that Norway has to do so. We are in both Schengen and Dublin and therefore also have a responsibility for this cooperation to work well, including in new and more demanding situations. What the EU is proposing is in line with our policies: border control, distribution between countries of those in need of protection, prevention of people spending their lives in the hands of traffickers who want to make money, not helping people. In the wake of economic problems, unemployment, migration and terrorist events, we see a worrying emergence of right-wing populist forces in several countries: the presidential elections in Austria between the candidates of the extremes, the populist and anti-democratic forces are strengthening – in Hungary, Poland, France and Russia. We have to stand up to these cancers. If we in Europe do not, how will we succeed in other parts of the world? I support the government that it is in our interest that the EU succeeds in developing its security and defence cooperation, and that Norway should be an active partner in this, not least in relation to Russia, as pointed out by the Council of State in its presentation. It must be central to us that our experience and our relationship with Russia are also involved in the European debate and analysis. We support the sanctions. However, it is also important to maintain areas for cooperation and dialogue, as we have in the north, on important common tasks: fisheries resource management, search and rescue, environmental management. This must be brought to the table by the government in cooperation with our neighbouring countries, both in the EU context, in NATO context and in Nordic-Baltic cooperation. Governments are concerned about the referendum in the United Kingdom. A majority to go out would create uncertainty. For us, it is important to bear in mind that in case they are not just leaving the EU, they are also leaving the EEA and therefore us. We will, once they have in that case snorted out of cooperation, also stand without a trade agreement with one of our main trading partners. It's worrying that the government doesn't seem to be preparing us for such a situation. The only answer from the Minister of Economic Affairs when I challenged her in a recent interpellation was that they were coming along. That's not good enough. I hope there are some members of the EFTA Secretariat in Brussels or Geneva who do more than just follow along. If the United Kingdom stays in the EU, and that is probably the most likely outcome, the Council of State says that the government sees an opportunity for increased flexibility in what Cameron has negotiated, in terms of the possibilities of reducing child welfare for children in countries with lower living costs than for us. Well, this has emerged from time to time in the debate over several years. However, it remains to be seen the thorough analyses of the extent of the problem of so-called social security exports — in addition to Norwegian pensioners who enjoy a warmer climate, whether in southern European countries or beyond, for example. in Thailand, and as there is an agreement to keep your pension, of course, as it is. There will be one side to purchasing power-adjusted child welfare that we cannot ignore – this will also apply to Norwegian children of Norwegian parents abroad, for example. diplomatic children, seafarers’ priests’ children and Norwegian employees of Norwegian enterprises abroad. That I think will dispel reactions. Governments are looking forward to zero lags in the implementation of new legislation after it has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. It is good that the government's efforts in this area have succeeded – I would like to congratulate the Council of State on that result! We deserve the same legislation in the internal market in all countries, including ours. But from zero there's only one way to go. So I think the Council of State is aware that the pressure on the government colleagues has to stay up, unless the next measurement is going to be a slowdown. In the presentation, the Governments quoted the government platform: our European neighbours are close friends and important trading partners, and therefore Norwegian foreign policy must start in Europe. I would like to add: the EEA Agreement means that Norwegian domestic policies also start to a large extent in Europe. If implementation has been good in its own administration, 430 directives are in line to be included in the EEA Agreement. The reasons are different. Many are linked to the third energy market package, many to the financial supervision package, and several packages come – summer package, autumn package, winter package – in the energy union. In addition, there is agreement in the Storting that we should negotiate an agreement with the EU on common compliance with climate objectives. This means that we should deal with the legislation that the EU countries agree on, including in those sectors that are not subject to the quota obligation. In other words, we are facing quite extensive EU integration. This also raises the challenge that the Council of State did not address in its statement: how are we going to deal with the development of ever larger sets of horizontal policies? How are we going to solve the challenge of giving the EU competence, including fines, to businesses that do not comply with the rules of the agencies that are being set up? The second is that these packages often also contain policy objectives, as we do, for example. received in the Renewable Directive. Are the EEA countries to be included in these policy objectives, or only in the instruments? This is about the boundaries of the EEA Agreement and what I want to call integrity. One example of the issue is that we have now been dealt with on participation in the European Financial Supervisors. Finally, a solution was found by using ESA as a monitoring authority, in line with the two-pillar system of the EEA Agreement, a natural solution that it should have landed a long time ago. Should this be the model of other supervision, like Acer, and more coming? Or should this be dealt with on a case-by-case basis – time-consuming and more uncertain about the solutions? The last European Minister launched a long time ago the concept of ‘Europe Communication’, a more brief announcement on more comprehensive issues that the government would clarify with the Stortinget. Until now we have not seen the spin of such a message, and I have in all modesty proposed several good candidates. But the issues I point to here should at least be appropriate for such a message, so I challenge the Council of State on that. We will discuss the matter of financial supervision later, but let me only express in this context amazement that it seems to create a bit of drama because we are going to use § 115 in this case. That doesn't mean anything but that the transfer of sovereignty to ESA is something more than so-called little intervention. Otherwise, the matter is quite normal. We must follow the common rules for the financial industry in the internal market. Our own financial supervision is to oversee Norwegian financial institutions under this legislation, and ESA is to ensure that this is done – that is, a quite normal procedure. I believe that ESA expects a fairly affordable amount of work, because we have sound financial institutions, because we have sound financial supervision. So so far they've seen that they need to hire only one year's work for that job. The advantage of this solution is that the supervision of the financial industry throughout Europe is now strengthened and must follow the same rules. That should be reassuring. We have another important issue for consideration, and this is the agreement on a new period of EEA funding and the Norwegian Financial Mechanism – it is under discussion in the Foreign Affairs Committee and will be debated here later in the Chamber – and the fisheries agreement. In this respect, I would just like to remind you that a unanimous committee in the position on globalisation and trade pointed out that, although some improvement has been achieved in the forthcoming agreement, the market access of Norwegian fishing industry in Europe is unsatisfactory and would be threatened if there were a TTIP agreement between Europe and the EU. That's why it's necessary, I think, to start thinking as creatively as you can, to see if we can get better market access for an important sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e256	Let me first thank the Council of State for a very broad, thorough and good presentation. A Europe in continuous crisis response over the last year marked the debate on the EU/EEA statement six months ago. We can certainly say that we are still within what we can call a time of destiny for Europe – a Europe of instability. Last year's Paris terror was followed by bombs to the airport and metro in Brussels before Easter. Migration challenges weigh on several countries, and although inflows decreased over the winter, it now rises. There are vulnerable states in a belt around Europe, an aggressive and unpredictable neighbour in the east, Russia, as well as a number of other demanding conditions: high economic conversion needs, a growth that is waiting for itself, polarisation within the EU, lack of common positions and opposition to interest, emerging from extreme radical forces. One has what is described as a rebellion against the elite/the establishment, that Europe's small power is scattered from all sides, new protest parties are emerging in Europe, and there is uncertainty about political developments in the United Kingdom and the United States. Distances are no longer a guarantee of safety. The situation may still have a potential for significant political and institutional setback. What has been built, what has been achieved over the last decades, the common basis for rights and obligations that are binding on all EU members, the basis for freedom and growth in Europe – that is what this is all about. The only thing that is certain is that most things are uncertain and unpredictable, and that the rate of change is very fast. Migration challenges are a key keyword. They characterise all policy areas in individual countries and at EU level and have brought Schengen into a serious situation. A broad approach is needed to control inflows and external borders, with measures targeting countries of origin and transit, and to mitigate conflicts that generate refugee flows and mass migration, and to establish more effective measures in Europe. The agreement with Turkey on effective cooperation arrangements has been important in this way, and Germany’s leadership plays a very crucial role. The EU security strategy, which includes the fight against terrorism, organised crime, trafficking in human beings and online crime, must also be mentioned. During the EEA Council this week, we noticed that an important theme was on the agenda: the migration crisis, Russia, Ukraine and cooperation in the Arctic. And yesterday, the good news came that Greece gets about 10 billion. kr in emergency loans because they have delivered under the EU and IMF requirements for tightening up and reforming. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the government for its offensive European policy, based on a four-year overall European strategy, the annual work programme and coordination here at home through the Government's European Committee and, not least, the involvement of the Storting through frequent meetings of the European Parliament Committee. Work is systematically and proactively to be early in processes of importance to Norway. It is the interaction, coherence and synergies between what we do in Norway, in cooperation in the Nordic region, with the Baltic region and with the rest of Europe that will ensure Norway for the future. Europe’s foremost priority is its ability to cooperate in meeting common challenges. Yes, cooperation is the ‘only dangerous road’ that the government council of Aspaker so strikingly fixed in the nation on Tuesday. Compromise is policy at its best. Although solutions are not always equally popular in all countries, international cooperation is about giving and taking. Norway has been able to contribute to joint solutions, in close cooperation with the EU institutions and the Member States. The internal market is the bottom line of European cooperation and Norway’s partnership with the EU, and it is more important than ever in the light of the challenge picture. However, the relationship with Europe is equally important as a community of values: the importance of the EU and the EEA Agreement for Norway, for the creation of value added and well-being at home, cannot be overestimated. 75-80 pst. of our exports go to the EU, and the agreement gives us duty-free market access to 31 countries/500 million people. In an area of energy security, Norway now plays an important role for the EU as the largest supplier of gas to the EU market. Russia has been a major supplier, a monopolist, and, in addition to the economic burden it has imposed on some countries, at artificially high prices, it has also been a not insignificant element of political control. Now that Norway is relieving Russia as the largest supplier of gas to the EU, it offers new opportunities for several countries. It is an important strategic choice for many of the eastern European countries to bring their dependence on Russia to what can be called the scrappowder of history. Poland's President, Duda, just underlined that during his Norway visit this week. The EEA Agreement is about something more. It is not only about market access, but also about cooperation on innovation and research, creating new products, strengthening jobs – thus facilitating the transition to the Norwegian economy. The size shall, in a short time, deal with the consent proposal on the EEA financial instruments. It is Norway's basic position that we should contribute to economic and social cohesion in Europe. It also serves Norwegian interests. Norway’s contribution over the year is now referred to as voice by the European Parliament. New financial instruments for the period 2014-2021 were finally signed on 3 May of this year, following a fairly long procedure on the EU side. The term of the agreement is extended to seven years and has a total framework of 26,6 billion. kr for the EFTA/EEA countries. Norway finances all of this materially. Depending on the currency situation, Norway’s annual contribution will be about 3.4 billion. kr. The negotiations on market access for fish and fish products have been conducted in parallel and it has been made clear from the Norwegian side that agreement on the EEA contributions provided for a satisfactory solution in this area for Norway. It is essential that Norway establish a more strategic use of EEA funds. Through the focus on research, innovation, education, climate, green economy and measures in the field of migration, we will be able to contribute to increased security and security and to strengthen the EU’s competitiveness and growth – a growth estimated at about 1.8 pst. this year. Two separate funds totaling 100 million. the euro has been established reserved for youth employment and regional cooperation projects. Own resources have been set up to strengthen bilateral cooperation between Norway and the recipient countries. ‘Bremain, or not to Remain, that’s the question. What will this have to do with trade, community of values, stability and Norwegian interests? The United Kingdom is an important partner and one of our most important allies. It's about long historical lines. We got our first trade deal with the British in the 1200s, on fish. We share many values and views relating to economic issues and the internal market. The United Kingdom also plays an important role in foreign and security policy in Europe with its resources. 23 June is therefore an important day for Norwegian interests. Let's hope for continued British EU membership after June 23. It will be in the interests of the European Union and Norway. In securing Norway for the future and securing Norway’s interests, Europe and the EU are an essential part of our security policy and value anchoring. Norway and the EU share a common history and culture — and not least we share a common value base: democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Norway shall contribute jointly. We're part of a solution. We must avoid the Europe of national egoism and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs described it in a previous statement, we are replacing walls with quickly. Norway depends on Europe, we have to stick with our most important friends and allies. Europe's challenges are our challenges. Lack of management of the situation in Europe will have consequences for Norway. A weak and fragmented EU will weaken Europe's security. A strong and united Europe, on the other hand, will also stabilise the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e296	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and very good presentation. She focuses on issues that concern the whole of Europe at the moment, so it can be said that the presentation is very topical. Mr Elisabeth Aspaker, Minister for the EEA and EU, began his half-yearly presentation to the European Parliament on 19 May on important EEA and EU issues with a quote from the Government's political platform: ‘European countries are Norway’s close neighbours, friends and main trading partners. Therefore, Norwegian foreign policy must begin in Europe.’ I very much agree with that. Europe and European cooperation face many challenges, and the Council of State focused on five of them that are particularly central. It is the refugee and migration challenges, a more demanding security policy situation for Europe, the future relations of the United Kingdom with the EU, the need for more sustainable growth, migration and global competitiveness and climate and energy. I don't intend to address all these challenges – this was very well explained by the Council of State, but I want to point out what is at least a point of light, and something we all, I think, have been waiting for a long time. Finally, we have reached the goal of negotiations with the European Union on new financial instruments and increased market access for fish and fish products. Negotiations were initiated in January 2014. Earlier this month, the government and the EU signed the agreements on new Norwegian contributions to the less prosperous countries of the EEA and the EU. Norway will contribute about 3.3 billion. So it's NOK 391 million. EUR, each year in the period 2014 to 2021. This is now for ratification in Stortinget – finally. It is a little strange that Norwegian media do not mention this much more. This is a lot of money, and it's a positive thing. EEA funds will contribute to a greener and more competitive Europe. Two of the main challenges facing Europe are likely to contribute to sustainable growth, change and global competitiveness and, hopefully, will contribute to more innovation in climate and energy. In the coming years, the EEA funds will focus primarily on stimulating innovation and growth in Europe based on cooperation between Norway and the beneficiary countries. I think it is very good that the government will give priority to using EEA funds for innovation, research and education. In addition, the government wants to give priority to energy security and to extend police and judicial cooperation between Norway and the recipient countries. That's good. The EEA funds have undoubtedly contributed to strengthening links and cooperation between Norway and the beneficiary countries. Further development of bilateral cooperation shall be emphasised in this new period. It will now be made possible, for example, to: Norwegian enterprises, researchers, municipalities, social partners and non-governmental organisations may continue to participate in programmes and cooperation projects. It will provide Norwegian players with international experience and access to important networks in Europe, which is our largest export market. Since the programming period for the financial instruments 2014-2021 applies from 1 May 2014 to 30 April 2021, I hope that the agreements will enter into force as soon as possible and that, when they are now being dealt with by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, they will, of course, be dealt with promptly there. There will be a new debate later. The programme period for the new contributions has increased from five to seven years. As the negotiations extended far into a new contractual period, a period of seven years ensures a more sound development and implementation of the programmes of the individual beneficiary countries. The objective of both of the new arrangements is, as for previous schemes, to contribute to the reduction of economic and social differences in the EEA and to the promotion of bilateral relations. In the negotiations, it has been very important that the experience gained during the previous period be used as a basis for the new arrangements. At the same time, the impact of the financial crisis has been considered in 2008. It has contributed to increased focus on growth and employment, including inclusive growth and sustainable growth. Sustainable and inclusive growth and employment will be a key priority for the EEA financial instruments in the coming period. In that case, particular attention is paid to what I said: innovation, research and education, especially in relation to energy and the environment. I think these are good measures for what the minister started with: ‘European countries are Norway’s close neighbours, friends and main trading partners. Therefore, Norwegian foreign policy must begin in Europe.’ That's what this actually is. The beneficiary countries will be the same as in the previous period, with the exception of Spain, which was phased out, but with the addition of Croatia, which has become an EU member. The exciting thing here is that cooperation with third countries, bordering on the countries of destination, such as the United Kingdom, is now being opened up. Ukraine and Moldova. It offers great opportunities for Norwegian actors and in many ways also other actors in the voluntary sector. Unfortunately, Norway did not get through its demand to eliminate a number of insignificant tariffs, which would have simplified the trade regime between the EU and Norway. The EU considered this to be outside the framework of the negotiations. However, the agreement is considered to be a significant improvement in market access to the EU. Only if it is seven years old also means more predictability of the industry and improves the possibility of exploiting duty-free import quotas. I cannot get enough emphasis on the importance of the Norwegian industry and the population of Norway, and the respective recipient countries, becoming well aware of this scheme. Here, when this comes into place, I think that much better information and marketing measures need to be taken on EEA funds. But there's going to be a debate about this later, I think, so then it'll probably be a little bit more about it. So over to a case that takes me, which might not be that positive. It is a directive I hope Norway can oppose if it remains in its present form. On 18 November 2015, the European Commission proposed amendments to the EU Arms Directive on the acquisition and possession of firearms. These proposals are justified by the increased terrorist threat and by the fact that several terrorist acts involving firearms have been committed. If the EU Arms Directive is adopted in its current form, it will undoubtedly affect the law-abiding hunting and shooting environment in Norway. It is totally wrong to want a safer country, given the fear of terrorism and the use of weapons. It makes sense for measures to prevent terrorism and armed crime, but the EU directive goes far too far, and many of the measures will primarily affect law-abiding hunters and sportsmen in this country. I, and hopefully the Progress Party, believe that we already have a strict and balanced arms law in Norway. All owners of legal weapons have been allowed by the police and are engaged in hunting or shooting competition. These are activities that have long and good traditions in Norway. It is a very large sports organization with several hundred thousand members through the Voluntary Skyttervesen, the Norwegian Shooting Association and the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishers' Association. If weapons legislation is to be amended, this must be decided by Norwegian politicians who know Norwegian conditions. The Party cannot accept any changes which in practice would prohibit almost all types of semi-automatic weapons. Such a ban will in practice put an end to gun shooting and organised shooting through the Sports Association. The same applies to the proposal for a ban on the acquisition of weapons before the age of 18, which in reality affects only top shooters. These are deprived of the possibility of participating in international competitions where they currently have all the rights and international arms passports. The intrusions that deal with hunting weapons have no proven effect on the fight against terrorism. I have understood that there has been more input from EU Member States, which also responds to this proposal. So I have a hope that this will change in Norway's favour when the negotiations are concluded, and that agreement will be reached by the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers in the next month, as well as by the European Parliament. Otherwise, I would like to conclude by warning you that Norway is going to have great opinions on what Britain is going to do in its important debate and referendum on its relationship with the EU, and not to conclude by what is best for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e351	I would also like to thank the Council of State for its work. In this issue of EU and EEA issues, the Council of State of Aspaker placed great emphasis on strengthening Nordic cooperation in European policy as well. It's a perspective we have in the Christian People's Party. We have a lot to stick with in the North. And together, the Nordics can show way in many questions. In 2017, Norway will hold the Presidency of Nordic Cooperation, in the Nordic Council of Ministers. We must use that position to actively promote Nordic European political cooperation and strengthen the Nordic competitiveness. Another review theme was the active use of Norway’s potential for impact on the basis of the EEA Agreement and the other cooperation agreements we have with the EU. Especially in sectors where Norway is a heavy player with a lot of expertise, such as: energy and shipping, this is important. But we also have to be active in other fields. It shall apply, inter alia: European Arctic policy, with the EU focusing on research and innovation in priority areas such as climate and environment, sustainable development and international cooperation. As a central Arctic nation, Norway has a lot to offer and a lot to gain from increasing knowledge about the Arctic and the challenges we face there. When it comes to the situation in the EU, and in particular in the eurozone, the Council of State specifically raised five key challenges. Then the situation analysis – which is natural – became more problematic. Last autumn, the flow of migrants creates the major challenges in Europe. The result was almost chaotic relationships in some areas. The conflict over asylum policy is exacerbating. The contradictions in the EU became more open to all. It turns out when in one year there will be a million people, half from Syria, one fifth from Afghanistan and 15 pst. from African countries. Agreements have been concluded in the EU on the relocation and resettlement of asylum seekers. Following the EU Commission's timetable, it should, for example: be relocated 20,000 people before the middle of May. But in total, there are only 909 people relocated from Greece and 591 from Italy. And several EU countries are refusing to participate in practice. The challenges are great. The willingness to solve problems in cooperation has been low in practice. A report from the British House of Lords found that the EU maritime operation to halt migration across the Mediterranean from Libya to Italy is not working. They have just enough arrested some tens of people at the lowest level in the smuggling networks, but it doesn't have much effect. The important backers go free, and the business model of the smuggling networks is not broken. It is good that Norway actively supports European cooperation solutions to provide refugees with the right to protect a dignified and fair handling, while we are trying to stop the human smugglers who are stifling cynical trafficking in poor people from many countries. This year the European Commission is expecting a 10.3 pst unemployment rate. in eurozone. In non-participating EU countries, the situation is somewhat better. Collecting in the EU is expected around 9 pst. unemployment. The work to get the job done is running late. It's tragic for many, not least for the many young people who don't get into the world of work. Greece has the hardest chance, and they need a debt reduction or a very long down payment period to get into growth mode. The International Monetary Fund has dared to withdraw from cooperation with the EU in order to resolve the euro crisis if there is no agreement on a better debt solution. Nevertheless, ministers in the euro zone did not agree on a new agreement at their meeting on 8 May. Eurosona has a long way to go. It also applies to countries other than Greece. Finally, the Christian People's Party is also content that the Council of State focused on the crime of the labour market in the distribution to the Stortinget. Black Work is a problem and a major challenge that also meets Norway. Black work must be combated. Hence, the Christian People's Party is content with Norway through, among other things, EEA funds can contribute to this field, which is important. Together, we can fight against undeclared work and crime in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e370	I would also like to thank the Minister for his statement on the status of many issues relating to Norway's relationship with the EU. Cooperation in Europe is important, but the EU is unfortunately the wrong response to the challenges we face. It clearly shows the European people by the different choices that have been made in recent years. EU funding schemes are signed after a long process in the EU. One would think it would be faster when the gift package from Norway is so big. The growth is staggering, and only the bureaucracy to distribute the money is more than 80 million. kr in year. That it was the Progress Party in the government that would stand for such a use of money, no one had believed that their rhetoric was possible before they went into the government offices. From a four-word point of view, growth in bureaucracy has been a goal in itself. The centre party believes the extent of EEA funding has come out of all proportions. We are also not overconfident that the funds are used in the best way possible. The center game is to help those who need it the most. We can do that without going about a superbureaucracy in Brussels. The EU and EEA ministers stressed the importance of Norway’s implementation in the new agreement on fish exports to the EU and that it provides significantly better access to the market. The truth is that the new lights at customs are of marginal value only for Norway. Nevertheless, there have been extensive internal procedures in the EU, which have delayed much of the entry into the agreement. The fact that one has made a redeployment of unexploited free allowances against obtaining new quotas for fillet production of mackerel and herring products is positive, but not decisive. If this would have an effect at all, it would not depend on the EU's quotas, but mainly on whether the high Norwegian level of labour costs would prevent processing that has moved abroad due to the level of costs in Norway from moving back home. Nor has it been agreed at this time on permanent quota arrangements that go beyond Norway already have the Treaty, either through the Free Trade Agreement of 1973, the EEA Agreement or the WTO. The strong EU export growth, both in terms of quantity and value, has failed in all predictions for more than 25 years that customs duties into the EU would have a strong trade dampening effect. All such prophecies are made to be ashamed. The main problem of finished product production in Norway has been high labour costs, much higher than in China, Poland and Latvia. Zero duties have little impact on product groups which already have almost zero customs duties, such as: finished production – fillet, panet, etc. of cod, hay and seine. Neither Frionor nor Findus downloaded due to customs duties; they failed to meet high rates of customs duties. It is a pity that fiction about customs barriers should govern Norwegian foreign policy with regard to trade with the EU. The fact that Norway has a number of duty-free quotas that Norway has now replaced speaks its clear language. Current EU customs duties do not represent a decisive barrier to trade. In the nations we can read that the Article 19 negotiations are going on. Wherever the bulwark leads us, the council won't say anything, so there's little we can say about it. However, I would like to recall the importance of the percentage of customs duties and other measures to provide room for Norwegian food production within the WTO Agreement and other obligations of Norway. I want to warn the government not to tangle with stakes at the Norwegian country-based food production. The majority of the population has clearly said that we should increase food production. The government has to follow it up. In these days, the Financial Committee is in a hurry to deal with the greatest renunciation of sovereignty since the EEA Agreement, where the majority will link Norway to EU financial supervision. The case gives ESA and the EFTA Court a new image in the financial sector. They shall take binding decisions for the Norwegian Governing Council and financial institutions and impose fines. However, the real content of the matter is that Norway is placed under EU financial supervision. ESA becomes a pure copy office. The European Agency shall supervise and take decisions, which shall then be copied via ESA and sent to Norway. Follow-up to the proposal shall only be assigned to one person in ESA to resolve the so-called supervisory task. In addition, a large and robust copier must be purchased. The financial crisis showed us that Norway has a well-functioning financial supervision – far better than its EU, even though it has come after the last few years. We quickly got on the feet after the financial crisis. In the EU, the euro crisis is a continuing obstacle to growth and development. Close ties and considerable impact from the financial industry on EU legislation have been demonstrated, and a playful document from negotiations between the EU and the United States on the TTIP agreement shows that the EU Commission is most concerned with resolving so-called barriers to trade and ensuring capital flow rather than regulation. So why link Norway to EU financial supervision if you want to ensure the proper functioning of supervision of Norwegian banking and financial corporations? Of course, because the majority of population has one, and only one, goal for the eye, simply integrating Norway as much as possible into the EU. Yesterday, we were told that the Minister of Finance was standing in Stortinget and that it is not a renunciation of sovereignty to link Norway to EU financial supervision. It was as if an unbelieved ear had believed. Professors say something completely different, and I'd like to ask the Council of State to do something for what the government's view of it is. Do we relinquish sovereignty to the EU when we link ourselves to EU financial supervision? Or is that what the Minister of Finance said yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e389	These debates tend to focus on what is bad and difficult in Europe and in EEA cooperation, perhaps especially when one comes right after the Centre Party. I would like to start by pointing out the arrows that, after all, point in a positive direction in the EEA area – where we see that unemployment is on the way down, where economic growth is on the way up, where trust in the institutions is on the way up – and that one for Norway, in spite of everything, has been able to find solutions to what has been arduous negotiations with the EU for a long time. It is about fish, it is about EEA funds, and it is about the Financial Supervisory Authority. There's a reason to enjoy. Then, of course, there are some major challenges that we are forced to deal with and that the EU is forced to deal with. I want to start by mentioning the refugee crisis, which was the dominant cause through the fall and winter. Last year more than 1.2 million refugees came to Europe. It's a high number, and it gets particularly high when a few countries have to accept almost all of them. We talk about Germany, Austria, Sweden and partly Norway, who also accepted many refugees. If there were effective distribution mechanisms between European countries, the number of refugees who arrived last year would be completely manageable, but because one does not have it, it would be very demanding. And then some kind of solution finally came up with that. The EU Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the EU agreement with Turkey was a positive development. I don't want to call it a positive development. I'd rather call it some kind of action based on desperation because one was empty for other options. There are many problematic aspects to that agreement. Should a few long-term policies, which allow a clearer to take care of Europe's humanitarian obligations, and integrate refugees in a good way, need closer cooperation with distribution mechanisms where Europe is involved and involved, not just a few countries. On 23 June, there is widespread talk in the United Kingdom. The representative from the Progress Party said he was a little unsure whether it would be in Norway's interest or not if the United Kingdom went out. I choose to lean on the Right-front party government's view, expressed through the distribution to the EU Minister, that it is entirely in Norway's interest that we maintain close cooperation with the United Kingdom through the EEA. It will be at stake if the United Kingdom leaves the EU on 23 June. How it could be in any way beneficial for Norway, I find it very difficult to see. But what is happening in the United Kingdom – we believe that the conclusion is positive – is part of a larger picture and a larger development in Europe that gives cause for concern, the emergence of strong nationalistic forces, strong protectionist forces and forward-looking restraints. This is reflected in many European countries, now at last through the very close and very exciting presidential elections in Austria, which stood between two outer candidates, where the party of the one, who was almost elected head of state, has a relationship with and a view to Islam, the Jewish people, Russia's behaviour, which is very, very worrying. We hope and believe that the will to cooperate, to stand up for human rights and humanity, will be strengthened and not weakened throughout Europe in the future. It should be possible for the whole Biggest to end up over. Finally, I have three specific questions to the EU Minister, whom I hope she will answer, and to whom there was no point of contact in the distribution that was held. The first is: the Council of State, which refers to the mobility package in the EU, is a positive development. What I am asking is what the government thinks about the proposal for amendments to the Posting of Workers Directive, which both Denmark and the Eastern European countries have opposed. I have asked the Minister of Labour about this before and not received an answer. I hope I can get an answer from the EU Minister. The second question is: the Minister for EU Affairs is talking about the desire for a closer job of European competition authorities, for Norway to be involved. That's very good. What I'm asking is whether the government has the same attitude when it comes to data protection and data protection, and whether a job is for them to participate in the European Data Protection Board. Finally, a question left has been raised many times without being answered: why can Norway not introduce a discount on capital requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises, as our neighbouring countries have done, and as we have access to within EU legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e412	I can't let this debate begin in the same way that I started the foreign debate a few months ago, simply by pointing out that too much of the world's population was 2015 the best year in human history. We live longer, we take more education, less hunger, it is far fewer who die in armed conflicts, polio was eradicated – eventually – in Africa. So very much in the world is actually going well, believe it or not. In Europe, however, the optimism of the 1990s has been replaced by a great deal of concern about important developments. Europe has been in a permanent financial crisis for almost ten years, or at least in an economic and social crisis, many countries have had mass unemployment since the 1980s. Immigration is in the process of creating value conflicts, not least around religion, and the refugee situation puts it at the forefront. Both of these things are probably related to that uprising, almost, against the very attack on liberal values that one now experiences in quite a number of countries in Europe, for example. through the growth of right-wing nationalism. What is getting less attention, which is probably less than much of this, is that Europe is also becoming a less important continent globally than we have been. Slowly, but surely, Europe's part of the world's population and economy will be reduced somewhat, and we will be challenging economically. This calls for a European policy from a country that, after all, is a surplus country in Europe. It calls for an alternative to right-wing populism, but it also calls for a new course on important fields for Europe and the EU, which has not been able to respond well to those challenges. With that curtain, I was probably most disappointed with the Minister of Europe's distribution. I probably found the most central sentences in it at the end, and they say: ‘We want something about our relationship with Europe. The government’s priorities in European policy are well in line with the EU’s own priorities.’ The first sentence I had very difficult to find in the rest of the statement. I found very few places where there was a tendency that a wanted something with her. Perhaps it is related to the second sentence, that if one is essentially in agreement with the European policy as it is and is being pursued in the EU, it is very difficult to give the impression that one will do something on his own. And it's absolutely right to be in agreement with others when a real thing is the same. But if there's a goal in itself, and one stops having ambitions, then it's much harder to get such a will. And that will is an urgent need for important challenges. Let me do a couple of short examples. The refugee situation calls for leadership — countries that are throwing in economic, political and diplomatic resources to build an agreement on joint responsibility. One million refugees for a continent of 500 million people are not a big challenge, managed in common, but almost unmanageable if there are two countries that are going to receive almost all of them. It shouts at the path instead of at the bottom of a race. To climate: the Paris Agreement is important, but it is not a global climate agreement like the one we had seen before, which only triggers action. The Paris Agreement is a floor, and all research indicates that he must be overfilled if we are to achieve the objectives we ourselves have. It shouts on land that takes the lead and goes beyond what will be necessary to achieve the goals that stand in it. When it comes to the Middle East, we have to expect, no matter who is now elected President of the United States, that the United States will take less responsibility there, especially when they are now left on their energy balance due to the shale gas revolution. Europe must then take greater responsibility for the Middle East, which is also strong in our interest. Here Norway can play a heavy role. And not least: one must take a clearer position on matters of financial supervision in the TTIP, etc. If we are not to have our own European policy, what are we going to do with our own European Minister? Then it could be the system. So I call for will, direction in European policy, clear our own goals and ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e436	I am very pleased that we have this opportunity to discuss European policy and what is going to be Norway's path to a future and into a situation of increasing challenges. Developments in Europe affect developments in Norway. Europe’s challenges are also Norway’s challenges. Europe’s opportunities are also Norway’s opportunities. The government will secure Norway for the future. The strategy for cooperation with the EU for this ageing period, presented early in 2014, is precisely reflecting this. Our priorities are well in line with the efforts made by the Juncker Commission later that same year. It shows that Norway and the EU are largely in agreement on what our common challenges are. It is about creating more competitiveness, more innovation and green transition. Thus, based on the different areas of activity of the strategy, we draw up an annual work programme to closely monitor these objectives. It ensures the necessary coherence and structure of EU work at home. Cooperation with European partners helps facilitate migration into the Norwegian economy. A prerequisite for finding good common solutions is proximity, trust and broad support for the proposals adopted at European level and in each country. Only in this way can we succeed in moving towards a green, competitive and inclusive Europe. At yesterday's meeting in Brussels in the EEA Council, we discussed the European Commission's Better Regulation Agenda. It is that new rules should be more thoroughly prepared, that they do not impose unnecessary burdens on businesses and citizens, and that new rules should only be introduced when necessary. An important principle for us is that new measures should be decided as closely as possible to the citizens. To put it another way: EU level should only intervene if issues cannot be resolved at State or regional level. We have recorded this and been clear to the Commission together with our EEA/EFTA partners Iceland and Liechtenstein. EU internal market legislation also applies in Norway. The government therefore welcomes the measures and believes it is a step in the right direction. Simplification of rules can also be supported by our own motto, and our own work here at home, to simplify, renew and improve, specifically targeted at the public sector and small and medium-sized enterprises. Together, we are concerned that simplification must not weaken standards in areas such as health, the environment, consumer protection and food safety. Our cooperation in Europe is even more important in demanding times like these. That's when it's about being solidarity. It is now about contributing to good common solutions in Europe that take Europe further, but which in the next round continue to take Norway further. We need cooperation that can enable us to deal with the diversity of challenges we face, whether in terms of migration, the follow-up to Paris on climate and green change, or the major security challenges, where we are also challenged in order to combat terrorism and other serious international crime in a good and effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e457	I challenged the Council of State in my post and could not hear that she responded or related to it. There are two developments that we have had for a while and that challenge EEA cooperation, namely horizontal policy, where broad packages are made, where there are a number of measures that are obviously EEA-relevant because it is also about competition policy, but where policy objectives are set at the same time. We now have a harvest package with a new renewable directive, and that is an example of a goal – where we were able to negotiate a somewhat lower objective thanks to the hydropower, but still – where we have the agencies that are responsible. We still have no solution to ACER. And there will be a European Data Protection Agency, which I believe the government wants us to participate in, and which will have the same problem because it can make binding decisions in individual cases. Will the Council of State help us to have a more fundamental discussion on how to address these challenges in the EEA framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e466	It is quite right, as Svein Roald Hansen says, that the trend in the EU is moving towards larger packages. There is enormous dynamism in the development of policies in Brussels. It confronts us with great challenges of being able to keep pace so as not to increase the lag. It is also a matter of being able to assess, at any time, the EEA relevance of policy making. Svein Roald Hansen also raises the question of all these agencies in which Norway has expressed the wish to participate, and how the arrangement of them becomes. Now we have found a solution to financial supervision, which is targeting both public and private. In the case of Acer, on the other hand, we're talking about public regulators. So it's necessarily not that one solution is appropriate for all kinds of agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e473	It was the agencies. I hope and believe that the sensible thing is to use the financial agency solution and the two-pillar system with ESA and with the court as a conflict solver, if that comes to it. But the second part of my question, to which the Council of State was not able to answer, concerns horizontal matters and whether we should be bound by political objectives set by the EU. The interesting thing in this room is that if it is considered positive in relation to increased renewable share and so on, then any batches will not be bound by the EU in any context, very eager for us to take it in. But I think this is in principle. Whether the objectives are positive, good and well-meaning, I think we need to assess whether they are not outside the EEA Agreement, the means of achieving the objectives that you are doing will be that. Perhaps we should also have a fundamental debate on this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e480	It's an important question Svein Roald Hansen is now traveling, and it's a little back to what I said in my first answer, that the dynamics in Brussels are great. It is quite clear that we need to think through the changes that are taking place there, in relation to our apparatus and how our way of interacting with the EU system is going to be in the future. It really just underlines what has been the government's goal: we have to be even earlier on the ball. We need to be able to read the processes in Brussels in an even better way, to ensure that we get in early enough, and that we have the opportunity to influence and decide on how to deal with matters at home as well as at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e485	Like the previous representative, I also call for a more in-depth debate on our relationship with the EU. It's time to get it up in the public room, and maybe outside this hall. In my post I asked the minister a question that I did not hear a proper answer to, so I want to ask the question once again - very clearly. I would like to ask Minister Aspaker, in respect of the Stortinget and with her constitutional responsibility for this matter, to do justice to the government's view of linking Norway to the EU's financial supervision is to regard as a renunciation of sovereignty. If the answer is no, I will ask her to explain why the government is adding up a process where the matter is to be decided according to Section 115 of the Constitution, a paragraph that will otherwise be useful when Norway renounces sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e494	Let me start by saying that I disagree with Mr Navarsete's representative that we do not have an in-depth debate on Europe. I feel that we have always. We have a business that is concerned about how they can interact with Europe. We have exporters who have Europe as their most important market, and we have many who have Europe strongly in focus, whether they are working on migration or combating crime. So to the issue of renunciation of sovereignty. We do not relinquish sovereignty to the EU, but we have a limited transfer of powers to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. That is what is in the proposal on financial supervision. It is the two-pillar system in practice, and it is in this way that Norway can resolve its relationship with the financial supervision system in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e501	In my post, I concluded with the big challenge we actually have with black work and crime in the workplace. This is also a known challenge here with us. The economy is asking for action. Governments said that EEA funds can be used here. I want to know how this becomes a priority area with regard to the EEA funds we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e506	This can be done in such a way that, when the EEA funds are now published, work and dialogue with the various countries on the most topical and priority topics and projects are started. On the Norwegian side, we have put the Labour Inspectorate's competence at the disposal. They're program partners, they're in projects. In addition, the social partners in Norway, with LO and NHO at the forefront, also have their resources and opportunities to cooperate with countries that employ workers in Norway, and where we see that competition and pay and working conditions are important to ensure, as well as health, environment and safety. So this is definitely a priority area. The Minister of Labour and the undersigned have addressed several countries, and we have received a positive response. So this is definitely an area that has priority in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e513	I asked three questions in my article, which I have not yet received an answer to. I'm going to repeat one of them, and that's what the council should have had the most time to prepare, because the left has asked that question many times in this room, and I'm going to ask it again. It is about the so-called SME discount, that is, the possibility for banks to impose lower capital requirements on lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, as is possible under European legislation, and the way in which our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark have chosen to benefit. It will, show calculations, give an increase in lending capacity of 31 pst. to small and medium-sized enterprises. And at a time when unemployment in Norway's path, where we need more bets on good ideas and creating jobs, it's hard for the Left to understand that Norway won't take advantage of that possibility. Why doesn't Norway want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e520	It is true that the EU Capital Requirement Regulation contains a specific provision on lower capital requirements for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a temporary transitional provision and the act in question has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement because of this supervisory agency case. We consider that the situation in Norway is different from that in these other countries that have used it to provide this discount. Norwegian banks currently have good results. They are profitable and meet the requirements of these new provisions. We also consider the situation today that the Norwegian credit market is working well, and that profitable investments seem to have access to the capital they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e527	The Council of State answered clearly no to the first part of the representative's questions, but she did not respond to the second part of it, so I'm going to give her another opportunity, that's why we're going to use § 115, which is about the waiver of sovereignty, if it's not about the waiver of sovereignty? Then I thought I'd ask a little more question, because I was a little curious about the post of the representative Rhytman. My question is quite simply: was his posts such as somewhat expressive of the government's positions when it comes to the Arms Directive, or are those positions completely different?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e535	I just have to repeat the answer I gave to the representative Navarsete. It is not a renunciation of sovereignty to the EU. It is the use of the two-pillar system and there is limited transfer of powers to the EFTA Surveillance Authority. However, considering this transfer of authority as more than ‘small intervention’ in the sense of the Constitution, § 115 is used in this case. With regard to the Arms Directive, there is a major debate within the EU, where the same reactions from hunters’ and fishermen’s organisations in Norway have come from similar organisations in other countries. There are also other countries that have responded, as to whether there will be too radical a change, as contained in the Commission’s proposal. We are thus in the process of this, but the matter will be clarified if not too much time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e542	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e545	I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation, and I would also like to thank all those who have spoken before me for their good and interesting contributions. We have tried – as Sveinung Rotevatn had in mind – to focus on the challenges, but we must not forget the opportunities, because they are very many. But I think that my contribution will also be marked by the challenges Europe faces, they are many, and they do not pass away by themselves. It must cooperate to this end, and no country alone solves the challenges. ‘We are strong together’ is a well-known expression that can not only be used in this context but must be used. The migration challenges in Europe have been widely addressed and have also been addressed in the debate so far. It's a challenge that we all know about the body. I agree with the Council of State that efforts to reduce the migratory pressure, gain control of who knocks on our doors, and get a responsible distribution of responsibility between countries, must and must be high on the political agenda. Most countries and the EU take this seriously and try to reconcile these challenges, but unfortunately we see that forces on the far right in European policies choose to ignore joint solutions. Their solutions are to close all doors and literally build fences to prevent access to their own land. It challenges Schengen cooperation, and unfortunately we see the rhetoric of the right-wing populists reaching people. The elections in Poland and Hungary are examples – people have made their choices. The Norwegian term 'live Toten, shit in the world' is probably an expression that can be used in this context. I hope that the Norwegian authorities have whispered a few words to the President of Poland, who has been visiting Norway these days. Two days ago we got the election result from Austria: 31 026 votes were enough to prevent the country from getting a president from the far right. Hurray for it, I think. We are already seeing signs that Europe is divided between countries that want to take responsibility and countries that want to shift responsibility to others. These cancers split more than they collect, and that's something we have to and should take seriously. For this reason, I think it was a little surprising that the Council of State, in its presentation, did not address the challenges of the political extreme right in Europe. Europe needs to stand together to combat the causes of refugees. It's going to be a cool problem. One of many challenges is the conditions for agreement between the EU and Turkey. We see that there is disagreement about, among other things, visa freedom for Turkish citizens between the European Parliament and the Commission. I share the European Parliament's clear feedback to Turkey that they must meet all the 72 demands the EU has made on them before this can happen. We note that President Erdogan has called for the EU to have visa freedom for Turkish citizens by October. There is a threat that Turkish authorities will contribute to the non-introduction of the EU ‘flooding’ of refugees on visa freedom. Here are high-level threats. It merely confirms that the EU and others must meet their demands against Turkey. Where are the reasons why people are on the run? There are, of course, an incredible number of answers, we can link them to climate challenges, we can link them to war and other misery. But that the use of a ruler to divide the Middle East on a map 100 years ago would have such huge security challenges for today's Europe and the Middle East, few had in mind at the time – and of course many today, including me. In 1916, France and the United Kingdom shared the Middle East, and the Middle East’s fate was sealed. Why this division? Well, in order to protect the interests of both countries — without thinking about the people and the culture that they lived there were part of. But what we know is that this line on the map split people groups. Jan-Erik Smilden had a very interesting chronicle about this in Dagbladet on 18 May with the title «100 years of war». And he's right – today, May 26, there's a full war going on both in Syria and partly in Iraq, two of the areas that were divided by the two nations. In order not to forget Palestine – which was the British mandate area in 1922 – where today there is a struggle between Israel and Palestine. The conflict is described as "the mother of all conflicts" and is the root of most of the conflicts we see in the Middle East. We've become part of these. So close has the world become. The smile says it so strongly: ‘This is a story of Western imperialism, betrayal and cynicism’ – which Europe is facing today. I think we can agree with him with a little kindness. We can't change history, but we can do something to prevent history from repeating itself. Just knowing that part of the cause of the world's security challenges today can be not understanding and respecting the belongings and relationships of peoples gives me a bad feeling. In the wake of this, human smuggling has become a big business, with more people in it. People on the run have become billions of industries. It hurts me when cynical people in the human smuggling networks literally go over equal to making money on these poor people who are looking for a better future. Surveys show that this type of smuggling has become the largest source of income in organised crime. While the challenges are great, it will again be essential for the countries of Europe and others to work together to find a common solution to them. Yesterday's TV pictures have unfortunately become a part of everyday life – hundreds of people are in danger of life on ships that should have been on the scrapheap and so on. Fortunately, many countries have joined forces to help these people; the crew is doing a heroic job. I've met some of the Norwegians. Their mariners make me proud, the word "respect" for the people they save has a great place. Of course, I agree with the Council of States when she points out that the government is focusing on coordinating our policies and efforts with the EU and other European partners. But I am stunned that she adds «when it is in our interest». Is it only when it's in our interest that this is important? I just ask and hope the Council of State can elaborate on this a little bit further. Personally, I think that such a statement is getting clever and perhaps also a little selfish. Of course, it is in everyone's interest that the EU succeeds in developing its security and defence cooperation. I record that Norway has recorded four main messages for the EU in this context. I agree with all of these four points, but main message number two makes me a little more concerned, because it can be perceived as being challenged by the law of the sea when the EU develops its Arctic policy. The Council of State states that the Government considers that ‘the law of the sea should be based’. Maybe the Council of State can elaborate on this a little bit more. At the end of April, the EU presented a Communication on a comprehensive Arctic policy. It will be exciting to see how Norway and the EU can continue constructive dialogue in areas of common interest in favour of sustainable development in the north. As native Northers, it is with interest and also with some pride that I see that many nations, including the EU, focus on what is happening in the north. Norway must be a constructive and clear partner in this respect. It will create further sustainable development for us living in the north, but it is also important to emphasise that what is happening in the north must also contribute to stronger economic growth in the European countries. In conclusion, I agree with the Council of State and the representative of Aarhus Byrknes when they promote enhanced Nordic cooperation as part of European cooperation. This can happen in many areas, and we have good experience of strong and constructive cooperation between the Nordic countries over many years. That is why I agree with the Council of State when, in her presentation, she is drawing the Nordic view from a European perspective. We have a lot to do for each of us, but even more so when we stand together as the Nordics. The North can show way, says the Council of State, and I agree with her. But then it must not just be words, it must be action. I have great expectations that the Council of State, which is responsible for both the Nordic countries and Europe, will clarify what and how this will happen. And in this context, the Workers' Party will be a constructive team player to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e585	Here in Norway, we are in a transformation of the Norwegian economy. Although oil and gas are going to be an important factor for the Norwegian economy for generations to come, there are many who have realized that we need more bones to stand on, and we will become much less dependent on the oil and gas sectors. The need for this conversion has been known for many. The right went to elections in 2013 with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of Norwegian industry as one of the most important issues. The fall in the oil price, which no one could predict, has reinforced this need for conversion, and the government has put in place a number of good measures for both conversion and competitiveness. In a small open economy, as we in Norway are, we are totally dependent on global rules in the field of trade policy, and we need a well-functioning market for international trade. The low oil price is demanding for many companies, and the consequences for many are reduced activity and cancellations of additions. Then it may be tempting for many to become protectionist in such a situation. Misrepresenting contracts for own industry seems to be the solution for many. The centre party has requested this more than once. Look at Brazil, for example. New requirements will be imposed on vessels and fleets to force Norwegian reiers out of Brazil. Brazil would like to foreshadow its own fleets in Brazil. We have witnessed in recent years that a number of vessels have been sent home from Brazil to Norway and are now in circulation here because of such protectionism. One such development is very negative for Norway. Here in Norway we have more tonnage than the sailors may need, and therefore we need access to others' continental soles, others' waters, others' goods, and others' ports. And we're not going to get it by being protectionist. Market access is so very important to us, and international trade is important. That's what created our well-being. Look at the seafood industry only. They produce more than 30 million seafood meals a day, and this industry is becoming more and more important for the Norwegian economy. The oil price drop and the change we are in is updating the need for better market access than we have had. Large markets such as China and Russia are in practice linked to Norwegian seafood. Other markets, such as: African countries are struggling with their ability to pay. Nigeria is a good example of that. Good framework conditions for our business life are thus important for growth and development, and the government has established several important free trade agreements with EFTA. Then it is that the EEA Agreement can never be replaced by a free trade agreement, as some claim. The EEA Agreement provides Norwegian industry with a range of competitive advantages other than market access, but the EEA Agreement is very demanding for Norwegian maritime food when it concerns just market access. Nevertheless, I will give tribute to the government for the work they have done to improve market access for fish and seafood to the EU. There are several important improvements to the agreement that were signed on 3 May of this year, but there is a lot to be said before we have free market access, and there must be an objective, even if there are demanding negotiations. In the review of Meldnings St. 10 for 2015–2016, A competitive seafood industry, here in Stortinget a short time ago, there was an aggregate increase that said that full market access for fish to the EU is a target. Then maybe we'll listen to the priority to achieve this goal. Norwegian industry is growing in activities in the areas of maritime industry, travel, financial services, aviation, forestry and wood processing, telecommunications and consulting services. These sectors are entirely dependent on the EEA Agreement. A free trade agreement with the EU to replace the EEA Agreement is also no solution. Therefore, the marine food industry should also be covered by its need for market access to the EU under the EEA Agreement, and not just short-term allowances. I agree entirely with Mr. Svein Roald Hansen from the Labour Party, who called for the government to be more creative. Although the EEA Agreement states that we should not link fish and agriculture, I think the government should think again in that direction. I also believe that Norway has a great competitive advantage in the EU with much of what we produce before Norwegian agriculture. The quality product from Norwegian agriculture can also provide us with good export opportunities if we are willing to exploit the competitive advantage of Norwegian agriculture. We have a lot of very good competitive advantages, just look at our nature, our resilient agriculture and agriculture – we have adventurous possibilities for Europe’s large food barrels. I think we have to be willing to consider giving something to get something back – this is for the good of the country, the people and the welfare to be secured for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e611	Let me also thank the Council of State for the presentation. It's obvious that we have a government council that's very committed to these questions, and that's very positive. I have some comments that relate to the difference between the EU and the EEA and the comments that have fallen on the changes in the political picture in Europe. The representative Svein Roald Hansen, the representative Rotevatn, the representative Simensen and a number of others call a popular uprising for the promotion of right forces or right-wing populistic forces or extreme right. I understand that it may be uncomfortable for social democrats and conservatives to experience that the people respond to their promises that are not being fulfilled, but to call it right populism, that is to go too far. What social democrats and conservatives should do is go on their own and see why they can't create it. We see the exact same thing in the United States, where both the left-hand side and the right-hand side react to the policy that is not delivered. And what are they responding to in Europe? They respond to national cultural differences being eliminated, they respond to a flow of migration, they respond to terror, they respond to increasing differences between poor and rich, and they respond to unemployment. It's not right-wing populism, it's a popular understanding of their own situation, and the more we call it right-wing populism, the more frustration and anger grow over the established politicians, the elite and the establishment. Norway is a member of the EEA. It's positive, it means trade on equal terms. That was the intention, and that's what we've committed ourselves to. Trade between countries is positive; it is peacemaking in itself. You become interdependent, and it's also positive. Norwegian domestic policies are also EEA policies, but we need to distinguish between what is EEA-relevant and what is EU-relevant. It may be difficult, and there are moving transitions, but we have committed ourselves to the Norwegian people to work for a good EEA agreement that gives our business life and our innovative power better conditions across Europe, but we have not committed ourselves to anything else, and it is very important to bring it with us – including frustration among many in Norway. National autonomy is positive. It's not something we're going to think of as scary, and so it's very interesting to listen to the representative Simensen, who's talking about the Middle East and about national cultural differences in the Middle East that we've been involved in destroying. Yes, it is possible that we have been involved, but why are national cultural differences also important in Europe? It is a question that should be asked before condemning all those who are concerned about the nation state and national cultures, such as the United States. everything from language to all the cultures and cultural differences we appreciate, whether you're Italian, German, Swiss, Norwegian, etc. We appreciate that. That is what Europe is – nation states. In the end, I find it interesting to experience that there are many people sitting on that side of me, but there is no one sitting over here – there is not one representative from the media who is interested in this. You should be wondering, where are they going? Yes, I know where they are. They're out playing with the game about a fee in Eastfold. That's what they're concerned about, that's what the papers say, that's what the Norwegian media are concerned about. So they are not concerned with Norway's relationship with Europe. Actually, the media should notice that, and we can also notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e631	We are facing a more challenging foreign and security policy situation than for a long time. We are challenged by the migration crisis, violent extremism, destabilization in our neighbourhoods and an unpredictable Russia. We're experiencing an increased vulnerability, a feeling that the word we've built in Europe and globally in recent years is brittle than we thought. In Europe’s southern neighbourhoods there are several areas of war and conflict. From North Africa and Sahel via the Middle East to Afghanistan, it is a belt of vulnerable states struggling with radicalisation and violent extremism as well as weak government governance and high unemployment, not least among young people. European cooperation is under pressure from migration, economic crises, terrorist threats and international rules. We are now faced with a more demanding security situation, and the need for close cooperation with the EU and European partners in the field of foreign and security policy is becoming increasingly important. It is in our interest that the EU should be as united as possible and that Europe should take greater responsibility for its own security. Together, the EU and NATO have a wide range of instruments. There is no contradiction between European and Atlantic orientation in Norwegian foreign policy, on the contrary. Many today demand a common vision of how the EU can develop further. Some countries want closer integration, while others focus on national solutions. The choices now being made by the Member States will characterise the EU’s development for a long time in the future. European countries have always been Norway’s close neighbours and important trading partners. Together with the United States, they are our most important friends and allies and our most important political partners to preserve and strengthen not only regional but also global values and rules of play. Norway is part of this European destiny. The terrorist attack on youth in Paris last autumn was another meaningless attack on our common values, where we too were hit. We have clearly shown this in solidarity with France. Political, economic and in most areas of society, what is happening in Europe has a direct impact on Norway. Therefore, Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. It is in Norwegian interest that the EU succeeds in developing its security and defence cooperation. Norway recorded on the EU’s new foreign and security policy strategy for High Representative Mogherini in March. The Norwegian recording has four main messages. The first is that the EU should develop its foreign and security policy in close cooperation with good partners such as Norway. This is not least important in relations with Russia. Then we believe that the law of the sea should be the basis of the EU's Arctic policy, and that the EU and NATO should coordinate their policies even more closely. Concrete steps should be taken for closer coordination. It is important that Europe stands united behind the reactions to Russia’s international law violations and unacceptable acts in Ukraine. Norway contributes to this European unit by ending the EU's restrictive measures, and we will continue to do so. It is in Norwegian interest that the United Kingdom continues to be a member of the EU. The United Kingdom is an important partner, both for the rest of the EU and for Norway. Without the United Kingdom, the EU will lose its second most populous country and its second largest economy. According to the OECD, a discharge could reduce the United Kingdom’s GDP by 3.3 pst. by 2020, while the loss for the other EU countries is estimated at around 1 pst. GDP. Norway and the United Kingdom share many views on economic issues and the internal market. The United Kingdom is an important driver of the development of the internal market, which is also an advantage for Norway. With Europe’s major global competitiveness challenges, there is a need for actors such as the United Kingdom, who are pushing for economic reform in the EU. The United Kingdom is a significant defence power and an important player in foreign and security policy, both in Europe and globally. It is therefore important for the development and direction of EU foreign and security policy and for EU cooperation with NATO, not least. I am pleased that the EU/EEA Minister is actively working to safeguard Norwegian interests in the wake of the British referendum. Regardless of the outcome, the United Kingdom will remain a close partner and ally for Norway in the future. Norway contributes heavily in Europe. Europe's challenges are our challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e663	I come back to what I said in my speech and in line with the Council of State on the challenges of horizontal policy, where policy objectives are linked to instruments. When I hear from the Council of State, which says we have to be early on and wake up and better in Brussels, I feel that I have not got the problem. It's not about that. It's about when we include the renewable directive, and when we include an energy saving directive, are we going to be bound by a goal of reducing 20 pst, right? I am very doubtful whether it is EEA-relevant. But that we want to be bound by the means to get there -- it's obvious. It's an important issue that we're going to have to keep talking about somehow. It is also important now to enter into the negotiations on joint compliance with climate objectives. There, this issue will certainly arise, even if one does not intend to share the burden on each country, but has a common objective. Then the countries will contribute, and the sum will hopefully be right. So to the financial regulators: I don't know if it's conscious, but in that case, I don't think it's a good idea to try to avoid the word "sovereignty renunciation," because that's what we're doing. That's what we do with the EEA Agreement. We relinquish sovereignty to EFTA bodies, and we are members of EFTA. We have had a discussion generated by a professor in Bergen a year or a half ago about the use of § 26 versus § 115. A part of the legal environment believes that we extend the concept of "small intervention" to most layers. Yes, but let's use § 115 then, so we're on absolutely safe legal grounds. But then we experience that those who have criticised this suddenly feel that the matter gets much bigger because we are going to use § 115. It's not right -- it's a very ordinary thing we're facing. What could be the consequence, namely that ESA can actually deprive a bank of a concession if it does not comply with the rules – it is not ‘a bit intrusive’. It is ‘invasive’. That's why we use § 115. We are going to face the same issue, I think, when the government comes up with the agreement with the EU on the joint implementation of climate objectives, where we are also going to take the instruments out of the quota sector. But there's no reason to make drama out of it. We have tools in the Constitution to deal with both the ‘low intervention’ and the ‘high intervention’. The whole EEA Agreement is based on the foundation that we give sovereignty to the EFTA bodies. It's the top pillar system. A small remark to the Centre Party: The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, started by saying that the Centre Party is for cooperation in Europe, but the EU is the wrong answer. What we'll never hear from the Center Party is what their option for cooperation is. That's the one. The second thing is that even if you have an alternative, if you go out into the street and the rest of the guys play football, it doesn't help much with the handball, because then you'll be alone. The representative, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, says that what we see in Europe now is raised by protests against our having high unemployment, not getting order of the economy in many countries, high youth unemployment, and that we don't get properly managed immigration -- it's not right-wing populism. No, I totally agree with that -- it's not right-wing populism. There are popular reactions to things that don't work. But many of the answers offered from a number of parties, I would call right-wing populism. Bullying the media, for example, and what we hear from the United States, about building a wall against Mexico and denying Muslims access to the kingdom -- it's in my opinion right-wing populism. That's not the answer to the challenges we're facing. And then we have to get better at finding better answers to those challenges -- that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e676	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e679	A lot has been said. But let me start by commending the Prime Minister for the grip she took when she appointed a State Council for EU and EEA matters, which is also the Nordic Minister for Cooperation in the Norwegian Government. This is important, because good relations with Europe help secure Norway for the future, but also because our good relations with Europe start here in the Nordic neighbourhood. And to the extent that cooperation in Europe is scrupulous, it is important that the Nordic corner is strong. Then the government also determines that it will pursue an active European policy. And let me include State Council Aspaker in the rose with which I started, for the work done, we see – not least of the offensive statement she made here in Stortinget – that is exactly that: an active European policy. Our members of government are frequent in Brussels to promote our interests. We have a European strategy with annual work programmes, and we here at the Stortinget have frequent presentations in the European Committee of the Stortinge. The Councils of State said, among other things: that, as the Council of States responsible for both EU and EEA cooperation and for Nordic cooperation, she is committed to exploiting the opportunities for a more active Nordic European policy. I agree with the Council of States that the Nordics have a good starting point to influence, that the Nordics can show the way, and that we need to think more about the Nordics in Europe. In 2017, Norway has the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Nordic Government Cooperation. There will just be a golden opportunity to promote active Nordic European political cooperation. Europe and European cooperation currently face many challenges. The security policy situation has been mentioned, as has the United Kingdom's relationship with the EU and the need for more sustainable growth, migration and competitiveness. I would also like to highlight the major refugee and migration challenges. It is not possible for individual countries to deal with what is happening on their own, and I think it is very right for our government to contribute to finding common solutions through our participation in Schengen and Dublin cooperation. Norway has made good progress in strengthening this cooperation, in order to put in place solutions to limit trafficking in human beings and to put in place solutions such as: prevent the loss of more lives in the Mediterranean Sea. At the same time, we must have a European asylum system that is sustainable and fair. It is important for us to respect international obligations regarding refugee rights and human rights. Those who have a real need for protection must be protected. The Nordic region in Europe is one of three main tracks that the government will pursue in its Presidency work in the Nordic Council of Ministers. It is about the more coordinated Nordic implementation of legislation and the more use of early-stage joint-nordic input into the EU. Let's wish the Council of State luck from Stortinget with that effort in the coming year. It is important for our relationship with Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e698	Norway is dependent on close political and economic cooperation with the EU. Norway has chosen to interact with the EU through different contractual relationships, where the EEA Agreement is the most important and extensive. The EEA Agreement gives us access to the EU's internal market. As part of the EEA Agreement, we also need to have a link with the EU system of financial supervision. Following the financial crisis, which showed several gaps in financial market regulation and the failure of several national supervisory authorities, it has been important to put in place a single European system to ensure a more stable and well-functioning financial market in order to prevent new crises. From EU financial supervision in 2011, Norway has been working to reach a good agreement, and in 2014 there was a political consensus on a model. Since then, work has continued at the level of office until the solution that the government is now presenting to the Stortinget. By incorporating the necessary legal acts establishing the European System of Financial Supervisors, a Norwegian economic operator provides them with the same conditions and the same protection as EU countries in the internal market. The inclusion will facilitate the participation of the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority in cooperation with the financial supervision of the EU Member State. The EEA adaptations imply that the authority to take decisions directly in Norway is added to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, with the right to review the EFTA Court. Parts of this transfer of authority are of such a nature that consent is required with three-quarters plural — with at least two-thirds of the representatives present, in accordance with the requirement of Grundlova § 115. There is limited authority to be transferred to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. These are the supervision of the credit rating agency and some types of registries for securities transactions, the right to prohibit or restrict certain types of financial activity or savings product, the right to decide between national supervision and the right to take decisions directly against market participants in the event that national supervision would not do its job. However, most of the supervision of the financial market and financial activities in Norway remains with the Financial Supervisory Authority. It is important that Norwegian financial industries remain part of the European market and that financial institutions can provide Norwegian consumers and Norwegian business with good and full value. Secures the currently negotiated agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e716	Some of the central themes of the government’s strategy for cooperation with the EU are increased competitiveness and value creation and better quality in research and education. Our relationship with Europe is crucial for Norwegian exports and Norwegian investments, but also for our Norwegian researchers who share valuable knowledge and experience through research cooperation with the EU. The government is heavily focusing on knowledge cooperation with the EU through the participation in Horizon 2020, which is the world’s largest research and innovation programme. One of the main priorities of the government is to invest in research and development. It is because it is a prerequisite for ensuring value creation and well-being in the future. Priority themes include strengthening our competitiveness and innovativeness, addressing the major societal challenges and developing excellence in professional environments. EU cooperation is therefore an important part of these priorities. The government has presented its own EU strategy for research and innovation cooperation, which includes concrete plans for how to ensure that the environment is able to win projects in the EU Framework Programme. The government's long-term plan for research and higher education includes, among other things: within an obligatory escalating plan of 400 million. to strengthen the ability and capacity of Norwegian research communities to participate in the EU by 2018. Participation contributes to improving the quality of Norwegian research and innovation, while making a good contribution to Norwegian research and innovation emerging internationally. Although many Norwegian environments are successful in the EU, it is still a challenge to ensure that more of our environments are left for Norwegian participation. The government's ambition is that 2 pst. of the competitive funds of Horizon 2020 shall fall to Norwegian operators. It is an ambitious objective, and therefore it is important to target the instruments and concentrate research efforts so that we can establish several internationally competitive research environments that are capable of winning. From the 2016 Research Barometer we see that it is the major actors such as SINTEF, NTNU and the University of Oslo that are at the top of breakthroughs in the EU, but also smaller centres and institutes such as Simula and NILU show solid EU muscles. At the top of the list of institutions that have taken the most money, Simula is no. five and NILU No eight. This shows that it is possible to succeed, even if you are small, but it is about targeting the work, it is about high quality and the willingness to get through. In order for Norway to succeed even better in the EU, the Research Council now provides further incentives for Norwegian research and innovation environments. A doubling of the funds for project cancellation, more new EU networks and a separate initiative to increase the eligibility for applications are among the things that take place in 2016. These are important measures to ensure that we succeed even better in the future in strengthening research cooperation with the EU, and that is an important part of ensuring our competitiveness and adaptability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e733	I would like to thank the Minister for a good presentation, and I would like to mention that I think the representative Tybrung-Gjedde had many good points in his post. We are familiar with the more demanding and complex security policy situation in and around Europe. This creates a need for closer cooperation in foreign, security and defence policy with the EU and our European partners. Nordic and Nordic-Baltic cooperation in foreign and security policy has become increasingly important. Pure national solutions are not alone in ensuring national sovereignty, combating terrorist threats or violations of international international law. This week a Nordic-Baltic Defence Committee meeting was held in Denmark. This is an annual meeting that contributes to important networking with good security and defence policy discussions and debates. The theme of the meeting was Danish defence policy, the Arctic and Russian foreign policy. Such meetings contribute to a broader understanding of the security policy situation in Europe and build closer partnerships and ensure important interaction. It is useful to discuss the Arctic and relations with Russia with our close neighbours and allies. Norway and the EU share common values based on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. It is in Norwegian interest that the EU has sound foreign and security policies and that the EU and NATO have close cooperation. Norway is not part of the EU and therefore not part of the EU’s common foreign and security policy, but we are still contributing to the EU’s crisis management capacity. The EU is now developing a new strategy for foreign and security policy, and Norway is actively participating in the development of this strategy. Norway is an active cooperation partner in security and defence policy that regulates relations with participation in EU civil and military operations, on the exchange of classified information, on cooperation within the framework of the EU Defence Agency and with EU countries as participants in the Nordic-Baltic Battlegroup that forms part of the EU’s strength. Norway cannot stand alone in defence of our national interests. So our cooperation and our cooperation agreements with both NATO and the EU will be crucial for our common security.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e744	In its half-yearly report to the European Council on key EEA and EU issues, on 19 May, the Aspaker State Council stated that the European countries are Norway’s close neighbours, friends and main trading partners. Therefore, Norwegian foreign policy must begin in Europe. I know that the Council of States also has a special interest in Nordic cooperation, and perhaps this is Norway’s strength – a Nordic voice in Europe. Europe has challenges in economics and unemployment, but also in security policy and with children fleeing from war zones. We can make a difference in terms of these challenges. When Europe has economic challenges, we need to solve them with interaction and not with isolation – with interaction because we can solve the challenges together, and because European youth who experience unemployment must see and experience that European democracies can solve their everyday problems. Unemployment and, in particular, youth unemployment must be taken seriously, both because young people may lose faith in the ability of politicians to solve their problems, and also because high unemployment can provide room for unprofessional employers, social dumping and crime at work. Europe must therefore have long-term strategies to combat crime at work. The major challenges facing Norway when people are on the move also have a European dimension. We need to find European solutions to common challenges, both in terms of security policy and in terms of human beings. Let's therefore focus on being part-wanderers for those who need a safe port, but clearly and decisively against those who aim to create rift and destruction. Children and young people in refugees are particularly vulnerable and may be exposed to human rights violations. Norway has a tradition of safeguarding children’s rights, both by having a child ombudsman — which not all countries have — and by emphasising the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is now important that children on the run also experience that it concerns them and their challenges. I would like to thank the Council of States for a good account of Europe, but also for their commitment to Nordic issues. It's noticed and valued.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e755	Even when the Schengen Convention was negotiated in 1990, it was clear that mechanisms were needed to deal with a future situation of cross-border crime and migration. This is in place in the legislation in many fields and has been implemented today, unfortunately. We see that the external border of Schengen is under considerable pressure. The fact that several Schengen Member States have now suggested internal border controls must be seen as a response – almost as a healthy response – to the pressure and lack of control at the external border of Schengen. But it would be a very serious situation for Europe if this were to continue. This has not been strictly justified under the Schengen acquis, but this must be done in the most serious way. Control of the Schengen external border is essential in the Schengen cooperation. The fight against organised, cross-border crime must be pursued through cooperation between countries, through the exchange of information, and then the Schengen Information System, the system for the exchange of information between countries, is absolutely essential. It is an extremely important tool for the authorities of the Schengen countries – customs, police or road authorities – to be able to control a mobile crime situation, to put it that way. This system provides information on persons refused access to the Schengen area, persons sought for crime, cars stolen and contains important intelligence information. Similarly, it is essential to have access to the Schengen visa registration system in order to control the immigration situation, and it is also an important tool for the PST in the fight against terrorism. These are tools that Norway has access to through its cooperation and participation in Schengen, and it is superfluous to be able to have access to them in the future. What is good for Europe is also good for Norway. It is therefore important to maintain cooperation through Schengen. What is good for Europe is good for Norway also in the field of justice policy, not least in the fight against and work against organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e764	One of the most serious things we elected people can do is to give up national sovereignty. In such a decision, it is essential that we try to have a long-term perspective. We must avoid making decisions that may have unintended and major consequences a few years in advance. The big picture is that Norway has been better off through the latest financial crisis than most other countries, especially several of the EU countries. In Norway, we have also learned from the experience of supervision and supervision of banks during the banking crisis that was 25 years ago. I would like to remind you that the Financial Crisis Committee underlined the importance that Norway itself can choose to operate with stricter rules than the EU system. When the Financial Committee recently held a hearing on the Financial Supervisory Authority, neither the Minister of Finance nor the Head of Finance Norway could give one single example of the Norwegian failure to join the European Financial Supervisory Authority causing problems for Norwegian companies. This has now been the case in the EEA system for more than five years. Despite this, the manager of Finans Norway could report that Norwegian financial companies continue to be received pragmatically in the EU system. The Norwegian market is an important arena for the EU. The EU exports services to Norway for an amount higher than that for which Norway exports to Europe. The EU and Norway have a mutual interest in maintaining good relations, including with regard to financial services. The strong economy in Norway and not least our petroleum fund make the Norwegian financial market an attractive market for European financial institutions. We saw this, for example. in the number of non-resident financial corporations currently operating in the Norwegian market and also represented by Finans Norway. This is the view of the Centre Party that there is reason to expect a significant EU-wide willingness to find solutions other than those proposed by the Government. Now, when you're considering relinquishing sovereignty on a permanent basis, you can't be careful about how things are and the situation is showing up right now. Although we can't predict how the future will be concrete, we know that it's going to be different from today. There is reason to recall the nature of the situation and the discussion in advance of the EEA Agreement. This is central in this discussion, because it shows how different economic conditions can be in a ten-year period. Unfortunately, we must expect new financial crises to arise, and we must realise that the EU system can address problems of considerable size and complexity. During the hearing on the case, economist Erik S. Reinert showed that the EU has managed the financial crises in several European countries in an unfortunate way. We must remember that Norway has a very different monetary policy regime than the EU. The EU is a monetary union without a corresponding financial union. This has created challenges that Norway does not face and that we must be absolutely sure that we cannot be involved in either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e779	I would like to thank you for many dedicated and good posts. Then I want to add that the important thing in this debate, and as I think most of the speakers have taken over, is that it's not about being yourself enough. It is about recognising that Norway is part of Europe. It's about recognizing that many of our challenges here at home are the same challenges that are in Europe, and we must not lose sight of the opportunities and benefits that this cooperation can actually give us. The EEA Agreement itself is the bottom plan in cooperation with the EU. It has also given us access to important education and research cooperation, we actively participate in Schengen, we have good dialogue with the EU on defence and security policy issues – at all important and large areas, where Norway as a small country benefits greatly from the international cooperation we can have with what are our closest neighbours and key trading partners. I recognise that the problem that Svein Roald Hansen raises, linked to the setting of concrete objectives in these directives, can be a challenge. We always assess EEA relevance in terms of legislation, but we do not determine in advance whether a legislation is EEA-relevant or not. But we are also busy looking for adaptations when it is in Norwegian interest, and when we believe that that is what is the best way forward. The representative Rotevatn asked what the government's view of the broadcasting directive was. We have been very clear that we want the Commission's new initiative to ensure a proper balance between the free movement of services, the protection of workers and fair competition between local and foreign businesses. We welcome it. Then we just have to recognise that there is considerable internal disagreement in the European Union about the proposal, and a group of Member States have recently asked the Commission to reconsider its proposal through a so-called yellow card procedure. So that's what the Commission is doing, and they have to consider whether to maintain, modify or withdraw the proposal. But it's important for the government, and we're going to follow this process further, and we'll also engage ourselves, of course, in the continuation of whether there's any new proposals here. Several have focused on the importance of Nordic cooperation and the relationship between Nordic and European cooperation. I believe that the Nordic region has great potential to cooperate more closely in the Nordic region, but we certainly also have great opportunities to become even more effective in Europe, if we can use the Nordic Channel.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e790	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e804	First of all, I would like to thank the whole Committee for its very good cooperation in this matter, a matter that has been going on for over a year and a half. The case includes a comprehensive correspondence, and two major hearings were held, one on 30 April 2015 and one on 26 and 27 November 2015. This case concerns the sale of military equipment by the Defence Agency and is an initiative matter on the part of the Committee, the background of which is a series of articles in Dagbladet in 2014 on the conditions of sale of a number of former Norwegian maritime vessels alleged to have landed with paramilitary groups in Nigeria, and also later in other West African countries. The matter was initially quite large and complex in nature, and it gradually became somewhat larger, as the Committee's position on the Storting shows. This case is set for Stortinget in two settings. It's Innst. 213 S for 2015–2016, dated 15 March 2016, and additional position Innst. 213 S Appendix 1 for 2015-2016. The former suspension was first introduced to treatment in Stortinget on 26 April 2016. At the request of the Committee, the opinion was sent back to the Committee. The reason for the request was that on 22 April the Committee received new documentation from the Minister of Defence, as stated. Letter of 21 April 2016. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members from the Right, refers to the large volume of the material transmitted, in which the Committee had in fact only one working day to examine the reports received prior to the examination in the Stortinget. The majority therefore consider that there is reason to criticise the fact that the reports received were too late for the Committee to be able to handle the matter properly in the Stortinget on 26 April. The documentation included two reports with annexes, respectively a report from the Ministry of Defence’s Internal Audit Office on the disposal of material, dated 23 November 2015 and a final report from the Ministry of Defence’s Internal Audit Office on the disposal of F-5 fighter aircraft, dated 11 April 2016. The Committee is broadly in agreement with its comments. However, at some points there are differences, which will be natural in such a large, complex and important case. I expect that the individual members themselves will explain their comments in more detail during their oral contributions today. It was journalist Kristoffer Egeberg who, in the edition of Dagbladet on 14 June 2014, entitled “Frequent Ex-Pirate Uses Norwegian Warships”, made the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee aware of the matter. The insight into the matter was as follows: ‘The daily newspaper can today reveal how the Norwegian authorities sold several marine vessels to a British safety company registered at a campsite in Surrey. Now the ships are part of a private-powered marine power owned by a former Nigerian rebel leader to hunt pirates and collect taxes for one of the world's most lawless and corrupt countries.» A series of articles in 2014 mentioning the so-called Nigeria boats contained a number of serious claims. In view of this, in October 2014, the Committee decided to send a letter to Minister of Defence Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende, asking questions about the facts of the case and whether legislation and guidelines had been followed by the departments and agencies. The boats mentioned in the first row by the newspaper's series of articles relate to missile torpedo boats, or to daily called MTBs, of the Hauk class. This was originally a fleet force consisting of 14 boats, built between 1978 and 80, which reviewed a major upgrade around 2000 for relatively large costs, in order to be able to serve until 2015. In addition, a major vessel, KNM ‘Horten’, was added, which was a supporting vessel to the MTBs and submarines. However, most of the MTBs were destroyed in 2008, when, despite the subsequent upgrade, it was decided to take them out of operational operation. Six boats were decided to be disposed of through a disposal order issued in January 2009. The series of articles of the newspaper pointed out that the defence had not checked carefully the company to which the ships were sold and that it appeared to be a breach of export legislation to sell such ships to private operators who could arm them and provide security services off the coast of Africa. The articles of the newspaper duly stated that it was difficult to obtain information from the Defence Logistics Organisation, the FLO, on the sale of the marine vessels. In the light of the information provided to the Committee through the media in this case, the Committee sought answers to: whether such sales are lawful or under the rules of disposal if those who made the sale knew what they were to be used for and by whom respectively the Defence/Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are responsible for the liability within the Defence for the dialogue between the Defence and Ministry of Defence and, finally, for the openness and willingness to inform the outside world; The main task of the Control and Constitutional Committee has been to clarify how former military ships and other military materials could be ported, inter alia. in West Africa or countries which are subject to the arms embargo and whether the regulatory changes made in the light of the specific cases are considered sufficient to prevent similar issues in the future. The Committee would stress the importance of having a defence subject to democratic control. Under the applicable provisions when the vessels were exported, the vessels were subject to licensing. A concept was developed for the conversion and demilitarisation of vessels so that they were no longer subject to licensing obligations under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' control lists. On 13 February 2012, the defence entered into a contract for the sale of the vessels to the UK company CAS Global. The firm’s end-user statement confirmed that the vessels were to operate under fisheries supervision in the Economic Community of West African States, or the ECOWAS region, which is designated daily, some of which was also subject to the arms embargo. The ships were to be registered under the flag of the United Kingdom, manned by European teams and under the jurisdiction of the United Kingdom. Displaying the vessels of representatives of the company CAS Global, including Nigerian citizens, was carried out and it was then publicly known that CAS Global also had offices outside the United Kingdom, including the United Kingdom. Nigeria. On 20 August 2012, the Defence Logistics Organisation (FLO) issued the Bill of Sale on the sale of the six MTBs to CAS Global. The MTBs were declared export to England on 22 April 2013. The first three boats were sailed to England by their own crew, while the last three were transported from Norway on a larger cargo ship. The Committee points out that for several of the ship's sales there have been some major shortcomings in the absence of any assessment of the "capacities" provision and lack of evidence of the sales process itself such as disposal protocols, purchase contracts, etc. In addition, the customer assessment guidelines have not been satisfactorily followed up. In retrospect, it is easy for the Committee to see that the English companies have only acted as straw companies for the purpose of obtaining approval for the sale and export of the vessels to Nigeria. The Committee refers to the information provided by the customs director during the hearing that during the period 2008-2014 the defence has disposed of 35 vessels, 21 of which have been exported directly to abroad. After what appears in the media, 13 of these vessels are located in Africa, 11 of them in Nigeria. In addition to the vessels mentioned above, the disposal of KV “Titran” and KV “Agder” has also been carried out very poorly in relation to the rules of disposal. For the part of KV, Titran, in particular, it is aspects of this disposal that have led to a police report, and I therefore do not comment on this matter here. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Centre, considers it necessary to have clear implications for those responsible for the breach of the rules in this case. The members of the Committee of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Centre do not consider it to be the task of the Stortingen to impose specific human resources on the Minister of Defence in this matter, but assume that the Council of State itself considers the administrative measures that need to be taken to reduce the risk of recurrence of breaches of the Code. I expect that the parties behind the majority vote themselves will explain in more detail the background to their comment on this point. This case also includes the export of belt wagons to Sudan, the export of military vehicles to Eritrea and the export of belt wagons to Sweden. This part of the case complex deals primarily with the export and not the sale of military material by the defence. As regards the export of the military vehicles to Eritrea, the persons responsible have been required to provide a package of 3 million. kr. They have not adopted the order to bring this part to justice. In the case of carriages for belts to Sudan, the Committee has received confirmation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the wagons are the ship out of Sudan after they have done the service they should for the company that was to use them for oil exploration. The case of coaches for Sweden has also been accepted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Committee is satisfied with this. The last part of the case complex that was dealt with by the committee was the sale of two pieces of F-5 fighter aircraft that were in the United States at the time of sale. In the spring of 2015, the Ministry of Defence received a tip from an external person about possible critical conditions related to the sale of these aircraft. On the basis of the preliminary investigations carried out, the Ministry of Defence's internal audit found the basis for the sale and export of the two F-5 fighter aircraft to be deficient. Based on the results of the feasibility study and the presentation by the Defence Staff, it was decided to carry out an extended investigation. This study concluded with: The defence has not been able to provide evidence that the buyer represents the US authorities. There is no valid export licence from the U.D. for the period from 1 October 2008 to 26 January 2015. It cannot be established whether the aeroplanes have been used in the United States without the necessary permits. The disposal process is so poorly documented that it is not possible to verify whether one has tried to obtain the best price for the aeroplanes and whether alternative disposal methods have been evaluated. Given the potential seriousness of the matter and the possibilities of maladministration, the Minister of Defence decided that the report should be submitted to Ecocrim at the same time as the report was sent to the Committee. During the hearing in Stortinget on 27 November 2015, criticism was raised that the report was not submitted to the Defence for Objection, or opinion, before it was forwarded to the Committee. The majority of the Committee points out that the Council of State had no other choice, since the Committee had expressly asked to be briefed on all similar matters. During the same hearing, both the head of defence and FLO were asked if the sale of the two F-5 fighter planes was to be considered a ‘green sale’, which they both confirmed positive. I want to refer here to what the head of defense said: ‘Yes, I can confirm that. I have here the entire sales protocol from that process, and the last part, with the sale itself, has been completed after the first issues came up. The very decision to sell to the NGL was probably just before the authority was withdrawn from the head of defence. But the authority is attached to the head of defense in the last part of the process, clarifying up against the US Department of State and up against the U.D. We have carefully reviewed this, and we also received a round from the Ministry of Defence with an extra check just after the sales were completed, to verify that the U.D. had received all the information from us. We did, and the U.D. confirmed it." The final report of the Ministry of Defence's internal audit on the sale of two F-5 fighter aircraft dated 11 April 2016, as mentioned at the outset, concludes that: The aircraft in the United States were under Norwegian control and were not disposed of in violation of Norwegian legislation. The aircrafts were sold to operators that had the necessary approval by both Norwegian and US authorities. The sale was approved by both the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US authorities. On the other hand, there are major defects in the sales process itself. There are no or insufficient sales protocols, so that there is low traceability/reprobability of the sales process. There are several examples that stakeholders have not been followed up, have not received the same information, and that stakeholders have been rejected without evidence of why. It is clear that the non-statutory principle of equality has not been followed in the process. From the report: ‘The disposal process is characterised by weak internal control. A risk of maladministration is mentioned, but there is no suspicion or evidence of maladministration, and thus does not constitute a basis for the notification of potentially criminal offences. For FD Led IR’ – Ministry of Defence’s internal control – ‘it appears unclear what key controls the defence has actually taken into account in this sales process.’ The Committee points out that for five out of seven sales contracts there are no protocols and for the two existing protocols there are significant weaknesses. There are further indications that the defence has favourably treated the NGL. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Right Party and the Centre Party, is surprised at the conclusion of the report that both the head of defence and the head of the FLO in the hearing on 27 November 2015 could declare the sale of the F-5 fighter aircraft ‘green’ when there are so many defects in the sales process itself. In a letter dated 29 April 2016, the Minister of Defence briefed that the final report of the internal audit had been sent to Ecokrim, as was the preliminary report. This just shows the seriousness of the matter. The Committee has noted that, by letter to the Ministry of Defence, Økokrim has informed that they do not currently have an investigation aimed at the disposal of F-5 fighter aircraft and that the updated final report of the Ministry of Defence's internal audit is being briefed and will not be subject to further follow-up by them. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, refer to the final report on the sale of F-5 fighter aircraft and to the shortcomings identified by the internal audit and, in this context, will make the following proposals: ‘The report requests the Riksrevision to review the entire sales process concerning the sale of the two F-5 fighter aircraft mentioned in the final report of FD Led IR, dated 11 April 2016.’ The member of the Committee from the Central Party refers to the final report on the sale of F-5 fighter aircraft and points out that the final report states that the role of the Ministry of Defence is limited. The member of the Central Party joins the criticism of the internal audit that the formalities in the sales were not in order, and believes that the head of defence's organisation did too bad a job and finds this very serious. The member of the Central Party of the Committee has, in this context, made the following proposals: ‘The State Auditor’s report requests the National Auditor’s review of the entire sales process, including the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, on the sale of the two F-5 fighter aircraft mentioned in the final report of FD Led IR, dated 11 April 2016.’ The Committee further refers to the report of the Ministry of Defence's Internal Audit on the disposal of material dated 23 November 2015, which shows that the report has resulted in 24 recommendations that could improve internal control. The overview attached to the report shows that 13 of the proposals have been implemented and the remaining 11 are being implemented. The Committee welcomes this. In September 2014, the Export Control Code was tightened up by the introduction of licensing obligations for all materials that have been used for military purposes and that have at some time been covered by the Export Control Regulation List I material — this regardless of the state of the material on export. These changes have led to the Norwegian legislation now being equivalent to the English one, so that circumvention of the rules by using Norway as a transit country is no longer possible, as we have unfortunately seen examples of by way of example. the export of trucks to Eritrea. In these cases, the Committee would commend the customs services for addressing these types of cases and for asking questions about the legality of the export of the respective material. In these cases, the Customs Authority has shown good judgment by contributing to the sale/export of former military material under the provisions in force at all times. In addition to legislative changes, the Committee is satisfied with the measures taken by the Defence Agency to prevent new cases. However, the majority of the Committee considers that the head of defence has not been sufficient for the desire of the Council of State and the Grand Duchy to defend a defence which takes on the seriousness of non-compliance with legislation, which controls what is happening at all stages and which takes responsibility when errors occur. The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Central Party, considers that the Minister of Defence, by letter to the Committee, the replies to the hearings and the measures taken, has emphasised the seriousness of the matter. She has demonstrated the power of action and efforts to ensure that disposals in the future will have a regulatory framework that is both clear and provides less room for discretion. The majority is satisfied with this. The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens are of the opinion that the responsibility for the specific disposals on which this matter is concerned has still not been recognised by the one who has been properly given responsibility: the head of defence. These members consider that this should be followed up by the Council of State. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party consider that the State Council must follow up on the fact that the responsibility for the specific disposals in this case is not recognised by the Defence's senior management. With regard to the follow-up responsibilities of the State Council, the members of the Committee from the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre point out to their previous comment that, in view of the established functional distribution between legislative and executive State powers, they will assume that the Council of State will consider the administrative measures to be taken to reduce the risk of recurrence of regulatory breaches. These members do not want the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to intervene in the defence order lines. The Committee considers that transparency of sales to private operators is essential in order to ensure greater control and verification of compliance with the guidelines, including in particular: For this reason, the Committee shall submit the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for full transparency around the sales processes of the Defence and the sale of out-of-court defence equipment to private operators by publishing what has been sold, purchased, sold, sold and intended for end-use after the sale has been completed.’ As this case shows, it is clear that the sale of defence equipment to private foreign actors poses major challenges. The Committee considers that the time has come for the Storting to address this issue and to promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to consider further regulation of the sale of out-of-court Norwegian defence equipment to private operators abroad.’ The Committee stresses that the amendment to the export control legislation which ensures the principle of ‘once military, always military’ is a significant improvement. However, there is a basis and need for stronger improvements for the future and, in this context, the Committee supports the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the methods of control and documentation for the sale and export of out-of-court defence equipment to the rest of the world and to provide sufficient information on the foreign buyers.’ The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Central Party, has been given the impression through correspondence and consultations that it has been difficult to obtain information on what has happened in this matter, and it is alarming that even the Council of State has had difficulties in obtaining correct information when it has been desirable. In this context, the Committee shall promote the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to take the necessary steps to ensure seamless flow of information between the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Head of Defence, so that correct and up-to-date information is available when such information is requested.’; The majority of the Committee refers to the opinion of the Defence Chief and representatives of the Defence Department indicating that the defence representatives have a different view of the interface of responsibility regarding their function in the event of the disposal of used defence equipment than the view of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. On this basis, the majority of the Committee shall promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the defence has the same understanding of the interface of responsibility as the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the legislation governing the disposal of former military equipment.’ In this case, there are two proposals for proposals such as minority proposals, one from the Left and the Left Party and one from the Left, the Left Party and the Green Party. In its recommendation, the Committee proposes five request decisions, as previously explained. In the Committee's additional position, there is one minority proposal, from the Centre Party. In its recommendation, the Committee proposes a decision. In doing so, I recommend the Committee's recommendations as set out in the Committee's opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e996	It begins to become a habit for the control committee to express the press and grave journalists to reveal serious violations of laws and regulations, which are in fact in their place in this matter. Without Dagbladet’s journalist Kristoffer Egeberg, who had an article on 14 June 2014 entitled ‘Frequent ex-pirate uses Norwegian warships’, the control committee or others would hardly have noticed this case. The incidence is roughly obtained from a Crimea novel: ‘The daily newspaper can today reveal how the Norwegian authorities sold several marine vessels to a British safety company registered at a campsite in Surrey. Now the ships are part of a private-powered marine power owned by a former Nigerian rebel leader to hunt pirates and collect taxes for one of the world's most lawless and corrupt countries.» The first article describes how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs turned 180 degrees in connection with the sale of KNM ‘Horten’. First, it was stopped by the then Foreign Minister Gahr Støre, with the reason that it was not only out of date, but also a violation of export legislation to sell Norwegian warships to private actors who could come to arm them and offer security services off the coast of Africa. However, only one year later, a contract was signed with the British company CAS Global on the sale of the six demilitarised missile torpedo boats ‘Geir’, ‘Hauk’, ‘Jo’, ‘Stegg’, ‘Tere’ and ‘County’ of the Defence. The same company received the purchase of the large supporting vessel KNM ‘Horten’, this time with the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The defense did not check the background of the buyer, which is the company, which is currently in a campground in Surrey, and which later sent the boats to Nigeria, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs based its assessments on information they received from the Defence Department. This is really the background for a joint committee to open up. Such debts relating to the disposal of military material had to go after. Rightly, the Stortinget asked for military material to be sold at the highest possible price, but not outside the code. Of course, it has never been the Storting's intention that military material we no longer use should equip pirates and military forces we far from want anything to do. After many rounds of letters to the departments, two large control hearings, external investigations and the transmission of material to Ecokrim for further research, we still do not know fully how this could actually happen. The first article in a long series contains many of the key questions the Committee has been seeking answers to: whether such halls are legal or in accordance with the rules of disposal if those in charge of the hall knew what they were to be used for, and whether the Defence Department, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are responsible for how the responsibilities within the Defence are the dialogue between the Defence Department and the Ministry of Defence as to whether there is openness and willingness to provide information; It has justly been relatively clear to us how outsourced marine vessels could still be used as military-equipped vessels outside of a country of unrest – a country that has been haunted by terrorism and partly major regional conflicts. But it has also been clear to us that there has been no special willingness in the defence to take the matter fully into consideration, and those involved do not take full responsibility for what has happened. The Minister of Defence has taken action to avoid similar cases, and that is good, but at the same time we note that it is not being treated with the same seriousness from the head of defence. It is alarming that a defense chief does not seem to have taken over the Council of State and the Stortinget's desire for a defence that takes the utmost seriousness that legislation is not being followed, and a defense that controls what is happening at all stages and takes responsibility when errors occur. The Labour Party would stress most strongly the importance of having a defence subject to democratic control. The case spokesperson has gone through the proceedings in the committee, but I still want to make some comments about the process because he has uncovered a thinking in the defence that I think we need to discuss here in Stortinget today. In October 2014, the Committee decided to send the first letter in a row of others to the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs with questions about all the disclosures in the media. The Minister of Defence chose to stress that all the sales had been carried out before she joined, which turned out to be wrong. In addition, she first informed that all the vessels appeared to have been delivered in accordance with the applicable rules and instructions. However, the Minister of Defence also stated that the export control rules were not complied with. In other words, the vessel was sent out of the country without any use or end use being done, and this was critical, said the Minister of Defence. The Council of State made it clear that an internal working group would be set up to review procedures for halls, and the PwC became engaged in an external investigation of completed halls of military vessels. In later correspondence, the Minister of Defense has written to us that the handling of matters has been flawed, and that the defence's handling has been critical. The Minister of Defence has ensured that measures such as suspension of competence, formalisation of internal proceedings and external communication should be implemented and, as an immediate measure, transferred the powers of disposal of material from the FLO to the Chief of Defence. In other words, she has gradually taken the matter seriously and had a desire to clean up. That's what the committee is pleased with. The first hearing was carried out in April 2015, and as I said, the process itself has been important. Throughout this case, it has simply been given different explanations as to who has been responsible for the disposal of military material. In one phase it was more than suggested that this was about one unit added and one department in the Defence. Then came the unclear signal about who has actually had knowledge of what has gone on. For the Workers' Party, however, some of the explanations have been very elucidating in the sense that they have shown how the views of the cases are broken both internally in the Defence and in themselves outside the Defence. The former defense chief Sunde's opinion of as well as the case is interesting. In the first earring, he said, ‘You have to be careful when exporting military material. Therefore, the disposal of these vessels became an agenda item at the monthly coordination meetings held in the Defence Staff.» He also said: ‘there was no secret that when CAS Global came into the picture, these vessels were intended to be used outside West Africa.’ [[...]] Former Chief of Defense Sunde also confirmed that it is the Chief of Defense who is responsible for the supervision of the FLO as a Department of Defence. The Committee on Control, as we know, is primarily responsible for monitoring the Council of State in such cases, but it is nevertheless necessary to find the background for failure to follow up decisions in the Stortinge, and also to give a picture of how a Council of State could have prevented any breach of the rules. The representative Gruvan was among those in the listening ring who put words on it and asked the following questions to Sunde: ‘You briefed instead of having monthly meetings where this was a point on the agenda. How were the Councils of State informed about the organisation and implementation of the sale of these vessels?’ Harald Sunde said: ‘This question must be addressed to the Ministry of Defence. But my comment is that during these monthly coordination meetings, the Ministry of Defence was an actor, and this was a routine part in which a progress process was discussed monthly." So there's nothing in the first one that means that the department, and therefore the state councils, should have some insight into what had happened. No one questioned whether there had been serious violations of the current rules and instructions. Once again, I will refer you to the former defense chief Sunde: ‘This shows exactly what I was talking about, that there is a serious breach here. This is also information that emerges afterwards. Experience and learning have already been included in the instructions of amended sections 4 and 5. But the best and the safest thing is not to dispose of military material." The leader of the committee, Martin Kolberg, summed it up this way: ‘I don’t think anyone is protesting that this is a violation of the law, and that has also been said very clearly by Sunde, and you have also used the term ‘apologies’ — very gross violations and ‘complaints’. So there is already a great deal of agreement between the former Heads of Defense and the Monitoring Committee on the background to this matter." In many ways, the cause might have ended here, but it did, as we know, not. Another central question has been the responsibility between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. Nor are there any clear answers to how the division of labour between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can be understood. Some of the explanations have broken our minds, and they have changed from first to second, which took place on 26 and 27 November. It's serious. In this respect, it is good that the Minister of Defence has initiated a regular dialogue meeting between the Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But it's part of a bigger problem if not the leader of the defense has the same sense of responsibility in these kinds of cases that both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs express. Here, too, we need to use the voice exchange to highlight this. On questions from the representative Tetzchner on the question of why the catch-all rule was not assessed, all the time it was known that the vessels would operate outside West Africa, in the area referred to in the PwC report as the ECOWAS area, where three of the countries are covered by the arms embargo, Sunde replied: ‘The export framework is granted under the licence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, the Defense obtained an end-user statement from CAS Global about who was the owner and where the ships were to be used. It is not up to the Defence to decide that question.’ As we know, CAS Global was a post office – a post office with a financial position that appears to be very weak, with the lowest score on the credit rating of the UK company register and with negative equity for 2012 and 2013. The defence must have made an outright or no background check of the company. But what needs to be highlighted in this context is how the defence perceives the division of labour between itself and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They replied to Sunde, pointing out to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as responsible for investigating the company, but that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is those who have knowledge of the area and nations, and are therefore responsible for making the professional assessment of whether the catch-all rule should be applied. When the current Chief of Defense Bruun-Hanssen was to explain the responsibility, he could confirm: ‘Yes, we are obliged to provide information to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then we have to do the check.’ The Committee was in this first hearing to a large extent congregate on an understanding that the saddle was not regulated. Chairman of the Kolberg Committee said: ‘No, but the boats are in Nigeria, that’s what matters. And if they had sailed under British command, in order to use such a popular expression, the matter had stood out quite differently, but they do not. So both of the assumptions on which the sale was based fall completely away, they don't exist. [[...]] Then the answer from Bruun-Hanssen was: ‘My assessment is that this is a system failure. It has failed in several areas of the Defence Organisation, which means that this has not been seen, acknowledges that the company CAS Global is something other than what they pretended to be. It's up to the defense to investigate that kind of thing and provide sufficient information to the U.D. We haven't been good enough there, and, as Petter Jansen said, that's one of the things we're improving the routines of. We put ourselves on the same standard that happens in the commercial world. We have to be as good as them, and make sure who our potential customers are." In other words, it was proved that the top leaders of the Defense, both current and previous, recognized in the first earring and regretted that it had been made a mistake. It was also recognised that Nigeria, as a recipient of the ship, is not a country to which we wish to export. As we see it, such an opinion is consistent with both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Minister of Defence stressed in the first hearing that routines had to be changed, among others. as a result of the fact that ‘the defence information collection and information exchange with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been good enough’, as she put it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, on his side, was at least as clear as how the responsibility was to be understood: ‘The exporter’s obligation to provide correct and relevant information related to the assessment of the licence obligation In relation to this information, it must contain the purchaser, destination and foreseeable use of the goods. [[...]] As the defense chief Bruun-Hanssen explained earlier today, the defense wasn't good enough to ascertain who their customers were, and had not checked the buyers of the boats well enough – a system failure, as the defense chief insisted." In the second call, on 27 November, it was actually discovered that there was not yet a clear understanding of the responsibilities between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I tried to drill on the question, and I discovered to my surprise that previously FLO Trond R. Karlsen confirmed that they had a responsibility to check the customers, but that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which controls the rule, had a self-evident responsibility to make an additional assessment. The same opinion also had the current Chief FLO, Petter Jansen. To get a final explanation of the understanding of the question, I asked the chief of defence, Bruun-Hanssen, and he said, ‘My assessment after the feedback given by several teams during today’s day is that we have a responsibility, both parties. We have a responsibility to check out the buyer, and we have to do that in a way that meets the expectations of the U.D., but the U.D. is making the decision whether to approve the buyer or not. So we have a responsibility, both." The answer to the head of defence was almost unbelievable – his opinion had changed after the first hearing, while neither the Minister of Defence nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs was in doubt as to how the responsibility was to be understood. The Minister for Defence added: ‘These rules are, of course, well known in the Defence.’ This is a matter that would not have been covered without hard work from the media. Of course, we are pleased that we have an independent and hard-working press, but we believe there is a weakness in the administration that they themselves cannot detect miscarriage. There is nothing to suggest that the Defense itself was in the process of discovering anything. On the contrary, Chief FLO, Petter Jansen, could confirm that Dagbladet was the direct reason why he was attentive to clear indications of failure in several parts of the system. It is serious that the control of such important issues only takes place when the press has revealed that it is not all right. Well so important and serious is what seemed to be a defense that keeps information away, not only for the public, but also for the defence minister, something defence minister Eriksen Soreide said in the hearing could indicate. And then she said, ‘The main challenge for me in the case has been that it has been difficult throughout the process to obtain complete information and documentation and to confirm or disclaim evidence and information. I have also kept the Committee informed of this in our correspondence. The Committee has also been briefed on new and corrected information in the case.» In order to continue with the way in which explanations and opinions change in the course of the case, and which, in our opinion, reveals the seriousness of the matter, I will give that one of the introductions to the head of defence in a round of two of the hearings. He then talked about changing the paragraphs – once military, always military. He also said: ‘Titran’ and ‘Agder’ are now in Nigeria. It's a fact. They are not warships, but they are 25 and 35-year-old holes, respectively, civilly designed to carry passengers. And that's what they're mainly used for. Of course, they can be used for different kinds of control functions, as we did with them in the Internal Coast Guard, but they don't get any greater military value for that reason. They are as unfit to develop the military capabilities of another State as any other passenger boat in the West.’» This shows a defense chief who rather than insist that this is a serious matter that the defense itself should have uncovered and arranged, well to be pleased that the law has changed so that the defense no longer has responsibility. In view of the seriousness of the marine vessel exports that actually took place prior to the change in rules, the total reversing operation to the head of defence appears to be very serious. I point out that this case started already in October 2014. Now write me 2016. The Minister of Defence has seen a series of investigations and sent reports to Ecocrim, but there is still doubt in the defense whether anything has gone wrong at all. When the Minister of Defense also says that she has problems getting information, which I referred to from the hearing, it is natural to ask questions as to whether she can have confidence in her ministry. So she says, ‘The main challenge for me in the case has been that it has been difficult throughout the process to obtain complete information and documentation and to confirm or disclaim evidence and information.’ Summarized, after almost two years, no one can or will really explain to us why the boats end up in Nigeria with paramilitaries. We have a council that doesn't get information from its department. We still wonder if she has confidence in the department, and we wonder if the Stortinget can be sure that this will be arranged for the future. Here my post would have stopped, but three days before we had the debate, there were two new reports – a new report on the hall of F-5 and one report from the internal audit. Then the Storting decided that the debate would be postponed by one month, and the Committee has created a new setting for Stortinget, based on the two new reports. I want to comment on the F-5 in particular a little bit. It shows that the disposal of the two F-5 aeroplanes has not been carried out in accordance with the legislation and that there are missing or inadequate salinisation protocols. And there are indications that the defense has favoured the NGL, something you can read about in the report: ‘It may appear that the NGL has been informed about when it has been relevant to contact the FLO, which does not harmonise with the FLO’s practices that leave the stakeholders to make contact.’ It's serious. It also states that the NGL, who was the buyer of the aircraft, knew about the price that had been agreed with Spain in 2014, and FLO SAS believed that that was what was decisive for the low sum. FLO SAS has said that ‘they had overheard the discussion between the Spanish Air Force and FLO SAS when they were at Fort Worth in relation to the display of the aeroplanes’. It's serious. And it's serious that the report reveals many major defects in the sales of F-5 fighter planes. In view of this, the Committee, which was also referred to by the Advocate General, recommended that the Stortinget ask the Court of Auditors: ‘ review the entire sales process concerning the sale of the two F-5 fighter aircraft referred to in the final report of FD Led IR, dated 11 April 2016.’ I am pleased that there are several figures for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1179	The previous talk was that this case started in 2014. That's not very precise. These things have a long history. Their arrival in the control committee is not the same as their appearance. I understand that the entire defence, the complex, and not least the political leadership, have been denied the critical remarks of the previous representative. We must take that seriously. I understand that this speaker is strongly critical of all the defence ministers and foreign ministers of the Workers' Party, who have administered all of the boat sales up to the binding contract we have mentioned in this position, which was the basis for the first consultation. I expect, of course, that the representative Eldegard, with his independence from party logic and partyism, would immediately promote a motion of censure against his own party traps if they had still been Minister of Defence or Foreign Affairs – if it were not for the voters to give these excellent people new tasks after October 2013. It is a feature of an open society that freedom of information is used to highlight critical conditions. It is also a feature of a liberal state of justice and a well-developed democracy that you can ask the critical questions to the rulers, to anyone, to reveal faults and, above all – that is what we want – to correct these mistakes. It is clear that this also applies to the defence. Of course, we have to take into account the fact that in the information stream there are exaggerations, biases and criticisms that are based on partly incorrect or lacking assumptions. The Court of Justice has received questions to be settled there. In fact, regular techniques have been developed to both clarify facts, assess them against the law and make decisions. In particular, there are procedures ensuring legal certainty for all parties in the legal context. Parliamentary control and criticism follow entirely different working methods. That does not mean that parliamentary control is not important. And precisely because it's important, it has to meet certain quality requirements itself. In fact, there must also be minimum criteria for criticism. If the criticism is to help us correct errors, it must – no matter who makes it – be based on knowledge, have internal logical context, distinguish materially from immaterial, recognise dilemmas, and not least have a good understanding of the framework and the simultaneous assumptions that existed at the time of the possible critical actions. In this case, the Committee has taken decisions since the creation of the sales project. We are talking about – especially about boat sales – binding contracts, which have been concluded five to ten years ago. The export control legislation, as it existed at the time of the sale of the vessels, trucks and belt wagons, opened up discretion by the fact that the sale of demilitarised materials was not to be considered as subject to licensing. Therefore, after the demilitarisation and reclassification, the vessels were considered not to be included. Those of the Defence Vessels registered as civil vessels were also not considered to be included. Correspondingly, the trucks and belt wagons involved in the case apply. On the other hand, the F-5 fighter planes were sold and disposed of as military equipment. In the large picture – and here I have the committee’s words with me – one has therefore carried out more than approx. 10 000 sales. There are only a few cases so far where doubts have been raised as to whether the legislation has been properly complied with. It is worth noting that it is only the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party that do not believe that today's system has operated in all respects according to its purpose, and that it must therefore be continued. When the claims were made on unregulated sales which were resubmitted long before their accession, the current Council of State examined the compliance with these claims and concluded that in a number of areas the rules had not been complied with with with the export control regulation. Ships were sent out of the country without any account of any use or end-use, which is very critical. The Council of State set up an internal working group to review sales procedures, and PwC, PricewaterhouseCoopers, became involved in an external investigation into the sale of military vessels carried out. It's worth noting that the committee with an overwhelming majority, i.e. all except one member, meet in the judgment of the Minister of Defence. They refer to letters they have received. I refer to the answers given in the hearing and the actions taken – which we are sure to hear more about – that have rightly highlighted the seriousness of the matter, but also the seriousness of the cleaning up process. This majority of the committee says: ‘She has demonstrated action to ensure that disposals in the future will have a regulatory framework that is both clear and less discretionary.’ I think there is reason to make this firm so early. From a political point of view, we could have cleared up the matter. As far as boat sales are concerned, it turns out that as you examine them, it does not correspond entirely with any headlines or ingress in newspapers that have mentioned this. But there is reason to commend the contributions that have been made, precisely to see where there have been shortcomings, where there has been a lack of evidence. I would particularly like to highlight the sale of «Agder» as critical. Export authorisation was originally granted from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and exports took place on 17 June 2009. The problem is that there is no satisfactory explanation why several sets of sales documents are available, although the committee spent a lot of time finding out about this, and even though the parties involved were also present. It is also critical that prior to the sale of the ‘Agder’ KV it should have been representatives of the Nigerian company Ocean Maritime Security on inspection of Haakonsværner to inspect the vessel. This company could have been found to have close relations with the Nigerian Navy by simple means. These relationships together suggest that the defense should have known that the ship was going to Nigeria. A summary of these sales is that for some of the sales there are major defects in the absence of assessments, in particular against the catch-alt determination, relating to demilitarised vessels. And there has been no evidence of the process itself, such as disposal protocols, purchase contracts, etc. In retrospect, it is easy to see that the English companies could have acted as straw companies for the purpose of obtaining approval for the sale and export of the vessels to Nigeria, contrary to the intention of national legislation. There we still have something for investigation by police and prosecution authorities, namely the role of some of the defence employees in this process. That will have to be clarified by further police investigation. For the sake of time, I now skip to hearing No. 2, because I believe that we can establish that the first hearing dealt with the substance of the matter. So what did we get out of hearing No. Two? What made the Committee set up a hearing No. 2, we must now – as a summarizing comment – say has been found in order for the defence part in terms of the final result. Trucks were sold in Norway and there was a private person responsible for the export in breach of the export control legislation. The defence was not involved in this export. In the case of belt wagons sold in Norway: it was a British company or person behind this and used Norway as a transit country to circumvent UK legislation. The defense was not here either involved in the export. Two belt wagons for Sweden across Bjørnberg quickly proved to be cleared up as a non-case for the Committee. The defense was simply not involved. Until the first submission, it became clear that, as notified, good documentation was obtained, and as it had met, namely that there would be further evidence when it came to the sale of the two F-5 fighter aircraft, which has now been approved by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US authorities. At no point have these planes been in the wrong hands and in violation of the legislation, but there have been sometimes a lack of procedural and validated statements that what was found was verified and documented at earlier times. It's now settled in retrospect, and we're actually going to enjoy it. I'll end by reflecting a little over this whole process. I guess we haven't gotten as much out of three days of consultation as any new examples of how the committee works, both at its best and perhaps at the opposite end of the scale. I think we have to ask ourselves the question: when do you cross the border of not respecting the function distribution between magnification and government? When does a Grand Prix Committee become a HR? And what is the treatment given to named officials in a governance system that is basically such that the Stortinget relates to and knows only the Council of State? I believe that the Committee in many areas is dangerous near this limit – and on a number of occasions solid above this limit. I therefore allow myself to quote from the Committee's thoughts on this, perhaps not so much about the overall, but as examples of the violation of the limits that we should have, and the division of labour that we should strive for. ‘However, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, have not registered a marked willingness of the parties involved to take the matter seriously, rather that they have taken responsibility for what has happened.’ But we just heard that the previous speaker, the representative of the Workers' Party, Eldegard, had great pleasure in quoting self-critical passengers from the head of defence's conduct during the hearing. It is not difficult to find both system criticism and criticism of fault choices in my own department, as far as I have registered. I allow myself another quote: ‘However, the members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party are of the opinion that the responsibility for the specific disposals on which this matter is concerned has still not been recognised by the one who has been given the responsibility, the head of defence.’ And then it comes, a little bit cryptic: ‘These members believe that this should be followed up by the Council of State.’ Then you might notice that the members of the Workers' Party could not quite stand for the previous anointing, so they're content to say: ‘The Labour Party considers that the Council of State must follow up on the fact that the responsibility for the specific disposals in this case is not recognised by the Defence Chief Executive.’ Finally, I would like to highlight this from the Committee's comments: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Central Party, records that the Minister of Defence has taken action to avoid similar cases, but also records that the case is not dealt with in the same way as the Chief of Defence. The majority cannot see that the head of defence has been sufficiently bold in favour of the desire of the Council of State and the Grand Council for a defence which takes on the seriousness of the failure to comply with legislation, which controls what is happening at all stages and which takes responsibility when errors occur.’ When I dwell on this matter, it's simply for the reason that the reason for weakening the authority of the chief of defence is clearly the impression that was created during the hearing. This is not about concrete neglect, it is not a concrete criticism of service actions, but it is about saying, ‘Do not take inward’, not showing caution, and even referring to the dualistic relationship between the head of defence and the Minister of Defence, as if one could make a clear statement about it, and as if one should make a clear statement about it. I have asked myself the question when I read these descriptions – which are correctly put together in a concentrated form here, but the quotes are they: Have I been present at the same hearing? I heard both self-criticism and self-recognition. This must have been heard by the main speakers of the Workers' Party, since she had found out the same quotations in her previous article. What strikes me is that this strange result is achieved by the rather active intersection of the minutes from several days, several hours, consultation. Of course, you can achieve the strangest results if you want to – if you take things completely out of context. Then I have to say that one tops it with the following: the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party state that ‘This shows a chief of defence who, rather than insisting that this is a serious matter in which the defence itself should be exposed and settled, chooses to be satisfied that the legislation has been amended so that the defence can no longer take responsibility or can no longer take responsibility. The complete reverse operation of the Defence Manager also, with a view to the gravity of the exports of the marine vessels actually taking place before the changes in the rules, does not provide a high level of confidence’. Trust is either something you have or something you don't have. Either you have it in full – you don't have it in sub-measures, you don't have it in centimeters. So this is a direct distrust of the head of defense in an area where human resources policies are being pursued, and almost placing an order for some kind of consequence for the head of defense who can only appeal to the imagination. I will end by saying the following about our time use in the committee: I agree that we should pursue every tip that comes about irregularities in our administration. This has been addressed by the current management of the Ministry of Defence. The Committee expresses its recognition of what has been done. We will hear more later today about what has happened after the suspension was given and we have been in the process of this debate. But I think there are some perspectives missing. We are at a time when the defense must be able to possibly meet some of the greatest threats that our world corner has been exposed to in decades, and then we run with what I want to characterize as – excuse the expression – purely ‘navel pills’. Yeah, well, we're also going to do the little things, but it's total distortion of perspective when that's what we're spending time on. So I want to use from this place the opportunity to distance myself from the point of viewlessness and not least the irresponsible personnel policy that is in the setting, if you add these statements. Finally, the proposal for a decision put forward in the supplementary position. During the surrender meeting, our representative has not found out that we do not support the proposal for the additional order to the Riksrevision to go into the sale of the two F-5 aircraft. We believe that it has been documented, not least in the additional documentation that some of the Committee have protested against. We believe that the Riksrevision has so much else valuable to spend time on – and actually we ourselves, too, if we are to decide later on what might come of new things and new ways to formulate old issues. We simply do not want to vote in favour of this proposal for a decision, but it is clear from the statement – which is incorrect – that the Right is also behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1275	The issue of the sale of used and out-of-court defence equipment has raised a number of key questions as to whether handling is within the current legislation. There is a question of routines on how to capture errors and defects in the disposal process, on current legislation is good enough and on the extent to which the exchange of information between the Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been in line with legislation. These are all serious and important questions as to the extent to which adopted guidelines are followed up in practice, and unlike the previous speakers, I do not see this as detail and little important. But perhaps the most eye-catching in the matter is that none of these questions had been raised if not the press, and in this case the newspaper, had revealed clear breaches of the rules and failed procedures in the defense and between the Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And at the top of it all, we're facing a system that seems to be concerned with keeping relevant information about system failure to itself. So closed, the system has been that, in fact, central actors have kept information away from their own state council. And as Minister of Defence Eriksen Soreide himself said during the hearing in the Committee on 30 April 2015: ‘The main challenge for me in the case has been that it has been difficult throughout the process to obtain complete information and documentation and to confirm or disclaim evidence and information.’ I will give tribute to the case rapporteur for a thorough job in the matter, and I will therefore not repeat his good review of the many aspects of the matter, but focus on some of the things that the Christian People's Party believes are important questions of principle that this matter raises. The normal instructions for the disposal of used and out-of-court defence equipment state that this should be done in the way that gives the most economic benefit. It is also clear from the guidelines that the Head of Defence is the responsible Head of Unit to obtain export authorisation and end-user declaration. The nature of the material subject to this legislation has also been defined and it is underlined that the Ministry of Defence will be kept informed on an ongoing basis of the relevant matters. No transfer of defence equipment according to the definition may take place before a retail declaration and/or export licence is available. It has also been made clear that the end-user declaration shall contain information on where to use the material and a confirmation that the material will not be resold without the agreement of the Norwegian authorities. There is no doubt that this matter has created an impression of an unculture in the Defence. In the case of disposal cases where one has found deviations from the legislation, it has not only created an impression of unculture, but it has clearly revealed an unculture in which one has not been able to see the seriousness of the situation. It has been so important to sell the material that sales have been prioritised more than the integrity of the disposal and the control of who is the recipient. From a different point of view, it can be argued that it has just been politically desirable, and a broad political desire, that one should dispose of the most material at the best price possible, and that is so far right, but it cannot in any case be made an excuse for circumvention or breach of legislation, as documented in this case. I understand the pressure and the ambiguity that employees face when it comes to solving tasks related to the sale of used and unarranged defence equipment, but the conditions that are now revealed are serious, and that is why the Committee has been thoroughly involved in this. A significant reorganisation of the Defence Logistics Organisation, the FLO, was carried out early in the 2000s. The organisation was significantly reduced in size, savings were made, and former Chief of Defense Harald Sunde said during the hearing on 30 April that he was not in doubt that the deviations of the management during the conversion period were due to the conversion. That makes sense, and we understand that. The conversion can explain a part, it can complete an image, and it can help to inform the case, but of course there is no excuse for a breach of the rule that one is, or has been, in a conversion. The handling of the defence has been critical. State Council Eriksen Soreide chose to use the following wording in the hearing: ‘the combination of failure of the system, in large parts of some of these systems, together with the lack of procedures over time. There has been no adherence to routines. [[...]] It is not possible, in principle, to take place over such a long period of time if the control systems are adequate.» We have witnessed a systematic failure in which unwanted operators with intent to export to countries that violate the export control code were not caught. In individual cases, insufficient evidence has been found to demonstrate a totally unacceptable lack of risk assessment related to the dossier submitted, a procedure which has given unprofessional operators virtually free to circumvent the legislation without risk. Without examining the situation, it appears that there has been an uncritical belief that the exporter provides the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with correct information. Instead of spending time checking the exporter, one has been most concerned about the price received for the material that has been sold. The cases have revealed a significant unculture, and in the view of the Christian People's Party it should have clear consequences for the responsible. The disclosures of individual items that conflict with the legislation, e.g.: The circumstances surrounding the sale of ‘Titran’ clearly came as a surprise to the Council of State. It was the newspaper's revelations that brought that information to light. It appears clear that the defence's own control procedures had in no way captured this type of system failure. The case of the disposal of end-of-life defence equipment has therefore evolved along the way. It started with the detection of a breach of the rules in individual cases, which resulted in the launch of a total review of all cases, in fact, from 2002 to the present day. In addition, we are also aware that PwC was involved in an analysis of FLO’s disposal procedures. The Minister of Defence has been clear that the proceedings have been deficient, and the handling of the defence has been critical. As an immediate measure, the Minister of Defence transferred the powers of disposal of material out of the FLO and to the Chief of Defence. There has been an unculture in the field where the disposal of material is given priority over the safety of disposal and control over the recipient. I must express great amazement at the fact that the majority's opinions in this area are not shared by the Centre Party. Instead, the party’s member of the control committee claims that the Chief of Defence has not been objected to by documents prepared by external consultants before being sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee. With such thorough detection of inadequate procedures in the defence management, it is strange that a party on the Stortinget chooses to jump over the stage that has, after all, been responsible for the implementation of the day-to-day routines that have led to the unculture we have now been exposed to. Instead, the scourge is fluctuated across the Councils, which in this case have both helped to detect unculture and to take action to remedy the damage. On the other hand, the willingness to recognise responsibility does not seem to be equally strong at the leadership of the Defence Agency. Now it's like the Storting knows only the council after the constitution. It's important and absolutely central. It is the Council of State that is to be held responsible and accountable to the elected representatives in this Chamber. That is also why all the proposals for decisions in the vote are, of course, directed against the government, against the Council of State. But that's precisely why, with this as a backtrace, it's obvious that a large majority in the committee, including the Christian People's Party, think it necessary to point to the defence's handling of this matter. The majority of the Committee considers, and writes, that it is difficult to see that the head of defence has been sufficient for the desire of the Council of State and the Grand Duchy to defend a defence which takes on the seriousness of non-compliance, which controls what is happening at all stages, and which takes responsibility when errors occur. It is particularly, yes, I would say, alarming when a majority of committee members must strongly stress the importance of having a defence that is to be subject to democratic control. This is very serious. This is constitutionally on the verge of being completely extraordinary, but the committee therefore believes that it is necessary to express itself that way, and we in the Christian People's Party also believe it. We are fully aware of this wording. We see a head of defense in this matter as rather than insisting that this is a serious matter in which the defense itself should have revealed and settled, choosing to be satisfied that the legislation has changed, so that the defence can no longer take responsibility or can no longer take responsibility. We see a defense chief who changes the explanation from one to the other. In the case of the marine vessel and the export that took place before the changes in the rules, we see the positions of today's defence chief who unfortunately does not provide confidence. For the Christian People's Party, it testifies that the responsibility for the specific disposals that this case is about has still not been recognised by the one who has been given the responsibility, namely the head of defence. This should therefore, in our opinion, be followed up by the Council of State. In the setting we find this again with a majority of the parties, and it's formulated just as I expressed myself now. So regardless of what the defence management itself might think about this reality description, it's created the impression of a management that doesn't recognize fault, and it's created a picture of a leader who doesn't make enough contributions to informing the case. This is in itself serious, yes so serious that the Storting believes it is necessary that it be emphasised in writing precisely the importance of our having a defence that is subject to democratic control. I expect, and I would clearly ask, that the Council of State in its further work take this very seriously. On Friday 22 April, the Committee received a classified final report on the disposal of the F-5 aeroplanes and a classified final report from the Defence Internal Audit Office on the disposal of material, together with an overview of the follow-up to the report. This occurred after the committee had concluded its proceedings, four days before the case was originally to be dealt with in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party agrees that it is critical that the reports received arrived at the Committee too late for the Committee to have a proper examination of the matter in the Stortinget at the scheduled time. Otherwise, as regards the examination of these reports in the Committee, I refer you to the rapporteur's review. However, there is reason to note the clear indication by the majority of the Committee of the serious, critical circumstances surrounding the disposal of the F-5 fighter aircraft and the disposal of the material mentioned in the report of the internal audit dated 23 November 2015. In the light of the serious deficiencies of the F-5 report, the Christian People's Party, together with the majority, goes in to take the remarkable step of asking the Riksrevision to review the entire sales process concerning the sale of the two fighter planes. It is a recommendation that underlines the great seriousness of this matter. Lack of management anchoring of ethical guidelines, lack of standardised procedures and lack of necessary independence to assess the risks associated with potential buyers are some of the most serious aspects identified in the disposal of defence equipment which require further review and follow-up. The fact that 13 of the 24 internal audit recommendations have already been implemented and the remaining ones are being implemented is positive. The rules of disposal have been changed. That is good, while, of course, stressing the seriousness of the matter. A number of acts have been taken by the Council of State and the Council of State has done its utmost to provide relevant and correct information to the Committee. According to the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the Council of State has shown that she has understood the seriousness of the matter, and both she and Minister of Foreign Affairs Brende have contributed to the necessary changes. The defence was required to stop ongoing and planned military-looking auctions of material until all matters were resolved and necessary measures implemented. The findings of the PwC-1 report and the internal audit report have been followed up by the necessary measures. As I had in the past, the powers relating to the disposal of material are no longer delegated to the FLO. The governance dialogue with the head of defence is intensified. Ecocrim has been involved in some criminal cases, and the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has drawn up a detailed list of issues that need to be assessed and clarified before sale – to name something. It is positive that the Council of State has been constructive in this matter, but it should almost just be lacking. As I've been to the past, it's the Council's responsibility to clean up. I feel that she's doing well. State councillor Eriksen Soreide has acknowledged the seriousness of the mistakes that have been made, and she has taken responsibility as the revelations have emerged. It promises well for further work so that one can minimise the risk that similar cases may occur at a later stage. So everyone knows -- we'll all understand that -- that you can never guard 100 pst. or that no skeletons can fall out of the closet in the future. Irregularities may occur. We're talking here about big systems that are handled by what a system is usually handled by: people of flesh and blood. Errors may occur, but this is about correcting systems in such a way that risks are minimised, while giving employees confidence in their tasks. A culture must be built where faults, shortcomings and dishonesty are not hidden, where faults can emerge and can be dealt with. And there has to be a culture where leaders take responsibility for mistakes that happen, and don't minimize or blame an individual down the system. It's a leadership responsibility to contribute to such a culture. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the responsibility for the specific disposals that this case is about has still not been recognised by the person who has been given this responsibility: the head of defence. We believe this is serious. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to follow up on the etatate and on the head of the etatate. In the Christian People's Party, we assume that it will happen in the most obvious way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1338	This is a comprehensive case, and I do not want to go into the different sales. They are set out in the statement, and they are set out in the previous speaker's speeches. I want to say that I have a completely different focus than that, among other things. The representative Count of the Christian People's Party has. The representative said that the defence management ‘who does not acknowledge errors’, is responsible as ‘who has still not been recognised’. In my opinion, such statements are not truthful, they are not true. That's my understanding of what's happened. As a result of the new defence policy doctrine, a large-scale conversion of Norwegian defence was launched at the end of the 1990s. As a result, the defense chose to get rid of large amounts of defense equipment. After some materials were scrapped – I remember very well – a political clarification was made that the material could be sold to the authorised end-user. Within the guidelines for sales to authorised end-users with the approval of the Ministry of Defence and, where appropriate, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the sale would be made at the highest price possible. The Committee's position on the matter was based on a series of articles in the Newspaper and subsequent correspondence between the Councils and the Committee and submitted audit reports. I would also like to point out that the legislation on exports of former military equipment has changed to the principle of once military, always military, and this principle, in my opinion, makes export of former military material for civil use impossible. This change in rules was necessary and correct. I consider it appropriate to clarify that the Committee and the Storting will now decide on the behaviour of the Council of State and its enforcement at all times of the applicable export legislation. Exchanges of letters and hearings have shown that there has been a very different understanding of the responsibilities, the lack of procedures and the thoroughness of the handling of export applications, and I would point out that the Council of State is responsible for complying with this legislation. I would like to stress that the hearing and the Committee's correspondence with the Council of State have shown that this extensive disposal of military material has been examined in a number of regular meetings where representatives of both the Minister of Defence and the Head of Defence have participated. In doing so, the competent State Council has had the full opportunity to acquire the necessary knowledge of how the defence manager’s underlying bodies have managed the disposal in practice, has had the opportunity to ask questions, and it appears that the Council of State is doing little to the underlying agencies and enterprises that we have in the Committee. The Council of State is responsible – not only for listening, but also for asking questions and taking action if there is something you think is wrong. The examination of the Committee appears to show that this area of activity has not received particular attention from the political leadership of the two departments concerned. There's been a lot of other big things to deal with, and this has probably been considered okay, but it's also important to get there, because that's when someone who thinks it's been okay, who's responsible for doing it the way it's done. I would like to point out that the special feature of this control case is that normal procedures for cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the head of defence have not been followed, by the defence manager not giving rise to any objection on the very central document. In this context, I refer to the Chief of Defense Bruun-Hanssen's answer to questions from me in the hearing on 27 November 2015, where I, among other things, ask: ‘I am sitting here with a letter from the head of defence to the Ministry of Defence of 29 October 2015 which, as far as I know, has not been sent to the Committee of the Ministry of Defence. It's the defense chief's comment on the sale of F-5B. I guess that's right. Is it a document that the Chief of Defense expected the Council of State to send immediately to the Control Committee?’ Haakon Bruun-Hanssen answered: ‘Yes, in the letter or written, I ask the Ministry of Defence to send our answers to those who have received the initial report.’ Furthermore, from the undersigned: ‘The Minister of Defence has sent a letter to the Control Committee of 2 November stating that the Ministry of Defence has now received new information from the Chief of Defence on the sale process of the two F-5 fighter aircraft. The new information is for further consideration and analysis in the Ministry and an updated report on the disposal of F-5 fighter aircraft will be prepared. I expect the Chief of Defense to be familiar with that letter?" Chief of Defense Haakon Bruun-Hanssen said: ‘No, he is not.’ I would like to point out that it is the Minister of Defence who is responsible for the fact that the head of defence has not been given the opportunity to point out faults and deficiencies before being sent to the Committee of Control and Constitutional Affairs, and I note that the Council of State has not sent the head of defence the comments on the audit report, but has answered the committee that these comments are being discussed in the department. Therefore, the Committee is not aware of the defence manager’s comments in addition to those contained in the hearing. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Defence has had a good opportunity to correct the head of defence and the work of his subordinates in the matter over many years of close dialogue, which I previously had in mind. I would also like to point out that it is critical that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken too lightly on its responsibility to make its own maritime assessments as a basis for its export authorisations. Furthermore, it is critical that the head of defence has not been given an opportunity to object to documents drawn up by external consultants prior to their transmission to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. I cannot therefore agree with what comes from the members of the Committee, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the SV and the Green Party, where one says in a comment: ‘continued not to have been recognised by the person who has been given the responsibility knowingly: the head of defence. These members consider that this should be followed up by the Council of States.’.» - That's right on the head of the defense. It also follows the Workers' Party in its comment, where it says: ‘The members of the Labour Party Committee consider that the State Council must follow up on the fact that the responsibility for the specific disposals in this case is whether or not recognised by the Defence Chief Executive.’ In my opinion, this is the wrong address – the wrong addressee – and it is very special that the Christian People's Party, the Left, the SV, the Green Party and the Workers' Party, in practice, ask for the head of defence to be dismissed. In the Center Party, we fundamentally disagree with such a conclusion, both formally and on the basis of the facts of the case. It is therefore the opposite of the responsible state councils in the Ministry of Defence who have acted critically, and the committee has spent a lot of time on the matter. Hearings and letters have been given a lot of information, and as the matter has developed, I have understood that the core of the matter is that the Council of State has had full information about the sales processes, and the Council of State has received an answer and could possibly ask for more information in order to obtain the facts and thus change the behaviour. That's my understanding. One has been orientated, could ask more, could change the behavior if it was willing. Therefore, when we made our first statement on March 15, he signed that he believes that «the matter has not been fully elucidated by the Committee's proceedings in spite of hearings over 3 days and extensive correspondence with the Ministry». And then we have our second setting. There I would like to stress that the FD IR, the Internal Auditorate of Defence, finds that in 2015 the sale was approved by the U.D., the U.S. authorities and the Ministry of Defence. In the hearing on 27 November 2015, both the Chief of Defense and the Head of the FLO stated that one could declare the sale of the F-5 fighter aircraft green. The Central Party understands these opinions so that at that time it was up to the Chief of Defence to enforce the decisions taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the US authorities and the Ministry of Defence. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the report on the sale of F-5 fighter aircraft, dated 11 April 2016, states that: ‘The role of the Ministry of Defence is limited.’ The centre party joins the criticism from the internal audit that the formalities of the sale were not in order. The Chief of Defense's organisation did a bad job. This is very serious. However, what is special is that the Internal Audit Report gives great attention to what has been done downwards in the range of defence organisations, down to the level of case handlers, while it is striking that the involvement of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US authorities is limited. This is not reliable for the Center Party. The work of the overall authority is most important and must be followed with the greatest thoroughness. That is where the greatest detail needs to be reviewed, because where the decisions are most important, and this has not happened. I recognize it from other things. It's an audit culture that's an unculture. This invites to kick down into the organisation, and the consequence is that the audit does not require top political management to take responsibility. Political management is safeguarded, whether it is documented in this control case that the department's departments were regularly briefed, and I know from experience that the department's departments are briefing political management on the first occasion if important information emerges that needs to be responded to. I am asking for the correction of the Council of State if such an understanding is not correct. In this context, the Centre Party therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The State Auditor’s report requests the National Auditor’s review of the entire sales process, including the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, on the sale of the two F-5 fighter aircraft mentioned in the final report to FD Led IR, dated 11 April 2016.’ It's the internal audit. The majority in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the SV and the Green Party have a similar proposal, but do not specifically mention that one should look at the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. In order to obtain a majority in order for the National Audit Office to address the matter, the Central Party will subsidly support this proposal by the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the SV and the Green Party. I assume that the National Auditorate is going through the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence in a more thorough way than the Defence's internal audit. On this basis, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1414	Then the representative Per Olaf Lundteg mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1417	I would first like to thank Dagbladet for a very thorough work on the matter. If it had not been for the thorough work that the newspaper has done in this matter, we would most likely not have dealt with it. Therefore, it is very affordable that we have a free press with good sources that are able to reveal such major issues. It is, as many people before me have been involved, not thanks to the defense that we are here, but it is thanks to the newspaper and their thorough efforts on the matter. – So all praise to that medium in this matter. Before I go into my post, I have to comment on the posts of the representative Tetzschner. But since Michael Tetzschner is not in the room now, I'm going to put these notes aside, and I hope he comes back, so he gets to hear what I have to say. I'll come back to that piece there if he returns before I leave the pulpit. We are currently dealing with a very serious matter – serious because it has exposed an unculture in the management of the defence, which we, in the view of several parties, and also the view of the Left, cannot accept. It's an unculture where you've deliberately misled and misinformed several government councils, where there's evidence of a breach of the normal instructions related to the disposal of defence material — proven. It is serious because it is obvious that the most important thing has been to sell and less important who the buyer is. It is serious because it has revealed that the defence has partly tried to suspect, partly to blame an innocent third party, namely the company Norsk Medling & Auction, which has contributed to the technical implementation of the sale of several retired ships. Furthermore, it has been found that there are obviously no good procedures for logging and checking visits to the Haakonsvern maritime base. And it's serious – very serious – shocking, really, that the defense has deceived and deceived the U.D., leading them behind the light with double-view of documents, as the newspaper has revealed. They have led a department, and they have tricked another department. It's shocking. Furthermore, two PwC review reports show that central documentation has not been archived in line with the existing legislation. Various electronic communications have disappeared without a trace — in themselves very little reassuring about who and what this is. There are several unresolved issues in terms of resales contracts with NMA. We know that the sale was not submitted to the U.D. related to the ‘catch all’ provision, and for one of the vessels KV ‘Titran’, no purchase documents are available. There are a number of uncertainties related to brokerage commission, sales total or traceability related to payment flows. The latter is very unfortunate, very serious and very critical. It has already been said by several representatives. I refer to what both the Labour Party's and the Christian People's Party's representatives have said, and I join them. The left, together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, SV and the MDG, stands in all material conclusions in this matter. It's basically just one thing that saves the head of defense, and it's that, on the part of some parties, one will be responsible to the Council of State alone and not point down into the system. And it's not about whether you have a high level of confidence in the head of defense, but about whether you've left this to the Council of State to decide. How to characterize the confidence of the head of defense after this, it's impossible to find a precise name for. As several previous speakers have described, this case is primarily about a number of critical issues relating to the disposal of various marine vessels, but also about the disposal of 17 trucks to Eritrea, a total of 30 demilitarised belt wagons to Sudan, two belt wagons to Sweden and two disbanded F-5 fighter aircraft to a company in the United States. At least this is what we know up to now. Then there might be further revelations, because the defense hasn't put the cards on the table. We have been offered the press in this matter, not that they themselves have come and informed this to their own State Council and therefore to Stortinget. We are also in the situation where the Minister of Defence has made it clear to the Committee that the rules of the export control regulation relating to the sale of vessels have not been complied with. Military vessels have been sent out of the country without any clear-cut use or end-use. The Minister of Defence has also concluded that the procedure has been inadequate and that the handling of the defence has been critical. As I said, it is difficult to find an appropriate word for the trust that the head of defence has in this matter. An overall committee also notes the following facts in this case: there are very poor background checks on the part of the Defence Agency related to buyers – whether of the maritime vessels bound to Nigeria, of trucks to Eritrea or of belt wagons to Sudan. It is obvious that more people in the Defense knew that the final destination for several marine vessels was Nigeria, among others. in the light of visits by Nigerian persons to Haakonsvern, painting of several vessels in Nigerian colours and warnings from customs services. So there's not only a great probability that more people knew, it's obvious and shining clear that more people knew, but let's not do anything, turned their faces away and let that happen. It is serious that a British citizen, who was in public light for arms sales, got to buy Norwegian defence equipment without any reaction. The same applies to a Norwegian company with clear links to Eritrea. It shows that there is a systematic failure which means that actors with an intention of reselling or exporting defence equipment to countries that break the export control were not caught. There is system failure or deliberate failure, or not failure at all, but a deliberate act. It seems that the defence keeps information away — not only the public, but also the defence minister. Despite the lengthy process of the Control and Constitutional Committee, with numerous letters forward and back and two verification hearings, a Joint Committee agrees that no clear and adequate information has been provided on the main issues in this matter. The division of labour and responsibilities between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence is at best deficient, and the understanding has suddenly changed from the first to the second hearing. The most perceptive thing seems to be that while the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs fully agree on the nature of the responsibility, the Chief of Defence changed the explanation between the first and second hearings. I don't know what to say about this word trust, and what precise name to put on the defense manager when it comes to trust. Because it's bad to say that, it's not like there's any situation for a big representative to come up here and say that you don't know what name you're going to use about the head of defense sitting there. It is sad to see how little he has contributed. And it's more alarming that you don't have the necessary authority down the system to provide information. When we know what kind of hierarchy the defense is and depends on at all times, it is alarming that the information does not come up to the Minister of Defense. The latter is paradoxical because the legislation has been amended and parts of the case complex have been transmitted to Ecocrime. It is very little reliable that the head of defense changes the explanation from one control hearing to the next. And it's easily incomprehensible that e-mails mysteriously disappear and do not allow themselves to be reconstructed in the defense's internal systems. How is it possible that e-mails just disappear? Is there no control? This is a matter the defense itself should have revealed and arranged in, or at least taken the initiative to settle itself. Instead, the longest attempt has been made to alleviate the blame for a third party, Norsk Melling & Auction, through a number of claims that have subsequently been found not to vote. We have, as I said, been commended to the reporters of the newspaper to get the facts out. They also met the wall somewhere, nor did they come any longer. There are many speculations and lots of loose threads here, and that's not all that can be printed, even if you have legitimate suspicions, because you don't have enough material at your fingertips. It is not because the head of defence has informed the matter, and it is disappointing. And – if you want to put it this way – in the worst case, this can be interpreted as a less healthy understanding of the democratic rules of the game that exist in a healthy democracy. Worse is the unwillingness to obtain facts from the defence, as this case has shown. It is simply alarming when the Minister of Defence has repeatedly said – as the Committee has also pointed out: ‘The main challenge for me in the case has been that it has been difficult throughout the process to obtain complete information and documentation and to confirm or disclaim evidence and information.’ It's to the extent that a total resignation, which is not positive, and even worse if you find yourself in it. If you look down, what does it say about the head of defense, who has put his superior in such a situation? When she does not ask him to take responsibility, it is up to him to take responsibility himself. It is against this background that the Left comes to the same conclusion as several other parties – including the largest opposition party, the Labour Party – that the responsibility for the critical aspects of this case has still not been recognised by the one who is responsible, namely the Defence Chief, and that such a discharge should have consequences. Governments should ensure that this has consequences that are proportionate to infringements committed and that have been achieved. Hopefully there is no more in the matter than what has already been revealed by the newspaper, but there is good reason to suspect that there may be more in the matter. It is a little incomprehensible that neither the Right Party, the Advance Party, nor the Center Party believes that all that has been revealed in this matter will have no consequences for the responsible ones. In the view of these parties, it is up to the Minister of Defence to assess. It is only that – only that – that does not mean that the head of defence gets majority criticism today. It's only the formal service route that saves the head of defense. The majority believe that it is up to the Council of State to say something about trust in the head of defence, but what is the term to use if it has confidence in the head of defence, it is difficult to find an appropriate name for it. In the interests of the Right Party and the Progressive Party, this must end in a misunderstanding of criticism of the Council of State. Well, that's not going to happen, except for the Center Party. There will be an extra paradox when the Central Party, which represents a majority of the government parties against a number of of the most critical comments in this position, believes that there are different government councils in the Ministry of Defence who are responsible, and that the Centre Party supports this in a notable reasoning relating to the lack of opposition to the PwC report, and on a disagreement between the head of defence and the Department on the sale of the F-5 fighter aircraft – which is really the least controversial sale in this large case complex that we are dealing with. I look forward with excitement to the contributions of both Councils to this matter. As mentioned earlier, the Minister of Defence has concluded that the proceedings have been inadequate and that the handling of the defence has been critical. The Council of State has also repeatedly pointed out that it has not been possible to obtain complete information and documentation from the responsible, namely the defence of its Chief Defence Officer. It's a little embarrassing for all of us. It's embarrassing for the Council of State, too. I expect that this is also embarrassing for the head of defense, who is sitting here, because it is embarrassing for us magnifying representatives to have to put words on this. Although there is no majority in the vote asking for such action from the responsible person, there should be consequences, as it is fully possible for the Council of State to do just that. Or the head of defense can take responsibility for himself. The obvious question that needs to be answered during the debate is: What consequences will this case have for those responsible for the defence? Both state councils should respond to this: What consequences will this case have for those responsible for the defence? If the answer is not a consequence, it is also an answer. But there's a lot of line chord exchanges here, so if that question is not answered, I'll get to it in the line exchange. I have the two questions. This is the one, and I'll get to the second question soon. Please – for our own part and for the sake of the proceedings at the main hall now – to address a little of the question that I am addressing now, in their submissions: What consequences will this case have for those responsible for the defence? It is quite alarming that an overall increase today considers it necessary to adopt a clarification on a five-point over-management of the Defence in relation to both future sales processes, understanding of responsibilities and information flows between the Department and the Defence. In addition, the Left is involved in two good suggestions initiated by SV. To me, it's a little incomprehensible that it's just our two parties that will have full openness around all the sales of military material. Well there is a unanimous committee asking for transparency to be introduced around the sale of military material to private individuals, but it may well be so relevant with openness around the sale of material to other state powers or semi-public paramilitary groups. Had it been such openness today, we would hardly have had the discussion we have right now. Two hearings would not have been necessary, it would not have been possible to misplace sales and disposals, as we have seen in this case. It would have been a safety valve for Stortinget, and not been given a large journalistic digging from Dagbladet’s side, as it is now. I have a few comments left. I don't see the Right Representative in the Committee in the Chamber, so now I have to go back to what I was going to say initially. Then I get to hope that someone brings it to him. But some of this is also addressed to the two state councils sitting here, which are from the same party. I don't know how to formulate this, but I feel that the representative Tetzschner is creating a reality. I might go as far as to call it the Tetzschner reality. The rest of us have a different reality, while the representative Tetzschner operates in this Tetzschner reality. And he said that this case is like pilling in the navel – we drive and pilling in the navel. And then he's aiming for that with the great international turmoil we're now facing, heavy tasks that depend on the nation and the defense, and then we're doing this umbilical pill. Now that it's peacetime, and everything's okay and transparent, we're going to figure out that the defense makes two sets of documents to lead the U.D. to get ships out. Tetzschner thinks we should find ourselves in, even if it's time for peace. Even if everything's clear. What would you accept in the Tetzschner reality if it wasn't peacetime, if there were some controversial times – more controversial than it is now? If the defense does not inform the state council now, as it is quiet times – so when it is completely calm and you have plenty of time to go deep into the matter – what does the representative Tetzschner think we should expect from information up in the system if the conditions are more acute, or there is a difficult time for the nation? Should the defense then operate for itself as a separate establishment without thinking that we have a democracy to deal with? I would strongly warn against this post by the representative of Tetzschner. His reality is frightening. It seems that it doesn't matter to him that Norwegian vessels are in these hands, which his own state councils – no state councils – had accepted. It doesn't matter to him that the ships are there. I now assume, since the Right Representative of the Committee has created uncertainty about this, that both the state councils in the Chamber here would rather be this matter ahead, and preferably they would see that these vessels were not where they are now. If the Right believes that this is what we're doing now, that's what's going on in the navel, it's shocking. This is my second question to the state councils – both state councils are from the Right – and I want them to answer this: what we're doing here, what the committee's doing here – is to take a nap in the belly button? I'm not going to give up on this, because we also have the exchange of lines. Use your posts to answer me, so I'll finish it, so we don't have to repeat this. Because I don't give a shit about this. Does the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that the control committee, with its two hearings on the matter, the examination of the matter, the position, that we are here today – that all this is to do with the umbilical cord? Is this the Right View? Is this the government's vision? Are both councillors part of our reality, or are they inside the Tetzschner reality? Let me conclude by saying that I think the whole thing with the sale of unarranged defence equipment is sad for Norway, for our nation. It's sad that our ship is in the hands of paramilitary. There's a big scratch in the paint for Norway. It is fundamentally scandalous that the case has revealed that we have a defence that is not interested in informing neither the public nor the State Council of the facts. It is totally unacceptable that central correspondence has inexplicably disappeared. And it's not going to live with the defense trying to misplace and explain serious relationships. It is sad that different governments in different governments have acted in good faith because they are proud that the information they received was correct, as it turns out it has not been. So on top of all of this, the matter seems to have no consequences for anyone. But I'm waiting for the answers to that question, because the attitude can't be "hit luck" – "hit luck" – done it, let's move on. Finally, I address the proposals that the Left is promoting together with the SV and the Greens in the vote, as well as that I also point out that the Riksrevision, as far as the decision we are making is concerned, should initially look at the whole issue, not just what we are going to adopt a decision on. I also see that the National Auditor is in the Chamber, and I feel that this decision should not be read as a restriction on what the Riksaudition should do. There may well be a call for further information to be provided by the Riksrevision through its review, for more details on the matter to be clarified and identified, and for good advice to be given on how to improve this as a system, it would be a very affordable job for the National Auditor to take on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1494	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1497	Free speaking time has its sides, to say it this way, and one of them is that I, at the end of my post, will comment on what the representative Tetzschner said here now. So if someone who knows Michael Tetzschner, looks at internal television and has the opportunity to give him a hint about it, I'm going to say that I prefer that he's in the hall. This will be available in the minutes as well as in the later video recording. I want to start by thanking the case spokesperson, who, in my view, has done an unusually thorough and serious thing, and independently, working on this matter, which I greatly appreciate – it has been a long time, and I have been impressed by the work. What is a serious matter? When is one thing referred to as big and serious? When does a political matter become a scandal? I have sometimes reflected on that in my years of politics, and it seems that there are at least two pervasive features. The only thing is that the cause has to be about something that's close, about people here, and the second is that preferably a council should have to go, or at least be in the vicinity of having to go. This case does not contain any of these elements, but is still, perhaps among the things I have been working on in recent years, which is almost unambiguous to be called a serious matter. Yes, I would call it a scandal, what has happened, not because the consequences – directly – have been so great here, and not because a government council should have gone or come to go, but because one has discovered something that completely should not have happened, which would be possible to avert, and where it seems that there has been a culture or a system behind what happened. This makes things extremely serious. And then there's another thing about the case: I had thought – from the Stockholm Chair of Speech – to thank Dagbladet. But I am now afraid that the newspaper's self-confidence will grow far beyond what is the actual basis for it, so I hesitate to say that I am impressed with journalism, among other things. Kristoffer Egeberg – who also won a SKUP prize for the whole – and his colleagues as a sitter here. I read in my time, when I work on the matter, the method report that was made in connection with the SKUP award – about how one has worked on this. And I must say, it was like a criminal novel, but it was also very impressive. It brings me to the next point I was going to go into, that it was enough at the beginning of this case was shown what I would call a systematic lack of desire to drop to the media and press – a lack of openness. It was extremely difficult to get answers to demands for transparency – a lot of retention and a lot of time spent on it – very difficult to get an interview, very hard work to get into the case. I would also like to say – to the Councils of State, and in particular to the Minister of Defence – that in my work on the matter I see a clear turn in a very different direction. This means that one might sum up saying that the Minister of Defense, especially because one has had a good time before the second ring and so on, has been both able to act and handle the matter in a good way and is fuelling the praise she gets from a large majority in the committee. Nor do I have anything to postpone at the foreign minister's work on matters. But the case shows, in sum, that it is extremely important that we have independent media with enough resources to do the very lengthy work before it gives anything back, and that it may be necessary that the rules on how to gain transparency – get more publicity – are hacked more liberally than when one sits on the other side, and it may seem reasonable, convenient and comfortable. So that's what I think is an important lesson from the case. So I'll take up one more thing, and that's that there's a mistake in the setting that it's a little important for me to be clarified. I was not present at the delivery meeting, and by mistake I was standing in two comments where I had informed in advance that I did not want to stand in. I then tried to correct it afterwards, but with reference to the regulation, which is so far clear – once an adjustment has been made – was the individual committee members who thought it was wrong. So this is on pages 33 and 34 of the setting, and I'm going to read the comments that SV has in it, where we're not supposed to be in, so it's going to be completely accurate for history. The first one is on page 33, and it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Central Party, records that the Minister of Defence has taken action to avoid similar cases, but also records that the case is not dealt with in the same way as the Chief of Defence. The majority cannot see that the head of defence has been sufficiently bold in favour of the desire of the Council of State and the Grand Council for a defence which takes on the seriousness of the failure to comply with legislation, which controls what is happening at all stages and which takes responsibility when errors occur.’ The second is on page 34, and it says: «However, the members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party are of the opinion that the responsibility for the specific disposals on which this matter is concerned has still not been recognised by the one who has been duly given responsibility: the head of defence. These members consider that this should be followed up by the Council of States.’.» The reason why I think it's wrong to be inside of the two comments is that, when it applies to both, I'm of the opinion that it's not formally accurate, or correct. It can be discussed, but I am of the opinion that it is not right to present that kind of criticism in a verification setting. The second reason, especially for the second part, is that I also think that we don't have the necessary factual basis to know if a given official has, as it says here, «recognised» it. I mean, it's a way of expressing itself that's not exactly accurate, or correct. However, in order to sum up the work on the cases, which many others have gone much further through the content of – not least the case-speaker – this has been a major and important matter of control. She has also been involved in showing how the control committee can and has a very important function in our political system. She has discovered that the decision on the size of the population — and the legislation that follows a decision on the size of the population — has not been followed up over a long period of time. It's very important that it's done. She's got the guts to clear things up. We are left with the fact that some of the factors that the big thing is about have proved to be very serious. Other conditions have been shown to be resolved or to be less serious. I would like to stress that it is not such that a matter in the control committee can only be one of the matters one knows in advance will prove to be the most serious. There necessarily has to be a bunch of things that are the basis for dealing with, where some turn out to be very serious, and others may even prove to be completely unproblematic at some point. And here we have a case complex with a slightly different degree of seriousness. Thirdly, it has led to action. After all, there have been significant changes and improvements in legislation, procedures and follow-up through to this case, and new proposals are being made in the configuration now. Saga has also contributed to openness. It is quite obvious to me that the setting one by one had to meet the newspaper and others interested in it, was different at the end than at the beginning of the case. So I think this is a matter that has contributed a lot. And then I come to the representative Tetzschner's post. I also noticed that he used the epitome of 'navel pills' about his character and then especially about the other earring, if I understood him correctly. Let me put it this way: if one had a representative in a committee here in the Storting, who did all the things – no matter how big and important they were – about an internal, 'gathering' debate about the functioning of his own committee, then one could perhaps call it 'gathering'. For 'navel pills', it's good that a host is so busy by itself that one goes away from discussing the questions of a certain size that we actually have. It could have used such a characteristic, but my opinion is that this is the opposite. This is a big and important thing. Fortunately, she is closed without anyone going – on the contrary, things are well managed in many ways – but it is a significant degree of criticism for things that have happened, and there are major changes in the way things are handled. I also think it's natural for one of the two councils to clarify the views of the government and the Right on how to describe this process after that article. It must also be added that it is not new, either in the public debate, in the Stortinget or in the Committee, that the representative Tetzschner is largely pleased – but a little displeased with this particular matter. I have a seat on the control committee a little shorter than the others here, in about One and a half years, but the constant tone in the big issues we've had is that Right, and especially the representative Tetzschner, have said that they're not really important. This was the case in the case of asylum children, which I believe most people in society thought had a certain meaning, as was the case in the case of hospitals in the north-west, so it is in Telenor/VimpelCom-saka, where there is a hearing tomorrow, and where there has been a public debate around, and so it was in the previous hearing the committee conducted, whether the role of the Sivilombodsman, a hearing that had a broad plurality – except for the Right – behind him, and which led to a very special appearance, where the representative Tetzschner came up with strong criticism directly against the Sivilombodsman. There was a little newspaper afterplay, where questions were asked about whether the Right was really for the Civil Ombudsman's office. I take this up because the representative Tetzschner used the cover "navel pilling", but he also talks about unnecessary time use. At least I feel that we are at a point now that it is well and good, there may be good reasons to discuss the control business. But in that case, it has to be channelled into a process of its own, so that the issues we are dealing with can deal with the issues – whether they are important or not – and that not all of the issues we address become debates about ourselves. Because then Stortinget works terriblely stupid. The second is that if one, for example: If you want to change the Rules of Procedure, there are actually own processes in the Storting – there is even a selection now to review – where it naturally belongs at home, and it does not interfere with all the common things we do. The third is that it will always be so that you can fear some politicization both ways in the control committee, depending on what government you have, but I think he only works if the members of the control committee can show some independence – as I would call it – from the current political situation. Mr Thorheim's case-speaker, for example, found me. has given an excellent example of it in this matter through the way he has handled it. There are other examples of that. Without this happening, it kind of doesn't work. It gets to be a closing apple. I myself have a seat on the other side of the table, I know that it can be annoying – and more than that – and that they may even think that they are making some mistakes both in the Riksrevision and in the Control Committee. But I think we have to admit, in sum, that we are more likely to have both the control institute and the national audit institute. Because when you are in position, or when you are in position, there may be something wrong with having others look at you in the cards, and it may be that a host might be a little bit "biased" of the position you hold. At the same time, there are those who are in opposition not to abuse the institute, but also to act on the same matter, to distinguish between big and small things, and to be able to see things as they really are. Then I give myself those words.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1549	Now I'm the last major speaker in this debate, which is complicated and has a lot of details. It's also a matter where to the most extent the devil is in the details, so it's been very necessary to discuss the details as well. But it is good that the press has helped us not only to get this matter up, but also perhaps to interpret both the debate and the committee's position for the people. Then I hope that what's in the press after, is not about the debate within the committee, about 'breeding' or anything else from the debate, but about the response of government and state councils to the Storting to the content of the position that we have now managed to work out together. My post should be quite short. I'll try, and I hope I can – like that speaker before me, the representative Solhjell, manage – gather some threads. This case has revealed serious irregularities in the sale of used and outsourced defence equipment, and the case has also revealed an alarming lack of understanding of the responsibilities, guidelines and practical implementation of the disposal of the material. It is not the Ministry of Defence and Defence that have revealed these matters. As we've been through, it's the media that has done it – and honour to be the media and the Dagbladet for it. It appears as a recurring problem in the work of the Control Committee in recent years that several departments obviously lack procedures and focus to ensure that the departments themselves detect this type of serious deviation. I have to say, it's very worrying. The fact that in this and several other serious issues, the media must ensure that such important information comes to the Storting must be taken seriously. I'm not going further on this, but the Greens, together with others, will come back to this issue in the Control and Constitutional Committee – more generally, that is. Despite a thorough and lengthy process in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, no clear and complete information has yet been provided on the main issues of the matter we are debating here today. But we know that the control procedures of the Defense and the Defence Logistics Organisation have failed the most seriously. The cases have revealed a culture in which the disposal of defence equipment, including the representative Abid Q. Raja was involved, is superior to the safety and control of the actual disposal with which the recipient is subject. The defence's own rules have not been followed, there is an amazing lack of follow-up and quality control by the defence management and an unacceptable lack of clarity about the division of responsibilities in the defence. To the representative of Lundtigen: it is, of course, political leadership that has the top responsibility for this. That is also what the Greens believe, even though we are in favour of proposals other than that of Mr Lundtigen. The hearings of the Control and Constitutional Committee have revealed that there is a unclear understanding of who is responsible. Explanations have been sporadic and have changed from first consultation to second consultation. The greens are amazed that such a ambiguity can take place and exist over a long period of time in the Defense. So now it has become very clear in one case after another that the defense has problems that their own legislation is not being followed, or does not work as intended. We are living at a time when armed conflicts in the world are characterised by many and fragmented actors, and where both the funding, the agenda of the parties and the participants in conflicts are inconclusive. This is different from the time when the wars were mainly between nation states, and when the actors were states or alliances between states. Such a development is increasingly demanding, we believe, for the caution and control of the placing on the market of materials that can be used militarily and fall into wrong hands. The seriousness of this is evident when Nigerian warlords take care of Norwegian boats that have been military. Fortunately, parts of the safety net have worked as the boats were demilitarized, but they ended up right where they were not going to end up. It's serious. Therefore, it is also very serious that the Chief of Defence in the hearings of the Control Committee changed presentation from first to second hearing, but above all, clearly showed little understanding of the seriousness of the case, as the Storting saw it. That is also why the Greens share in the promotion of minority proposals No. 2, to ask the government to come back with a bill to prevent private, foreign commercial operators from buying Norwegian unarranged defence equipment. That is also why we are involved in the suspension and request of the Committee for more transparency in the sale of discarded material. But we are not in favour, nor are we in favour, of minority motions for resolutions Nos. 1, from the Left and the Left, simply because the proposal goes – I would say – a good deal away from what this matter is about in the control committee, as the proposal also includes new material, not just used. I think I'll end up there. I just want to say that on behalf of our Permanent Representative, Rasmus Hansson, I would like to thank the Committee for its persevering work. It is clear that such a broad, long, detailed treatment over so long must have implications for practice today. I look forward to the contributions of both Councils to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1575	I welcome the vote and would like to point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and other stakeholders concerned, has worked on an ongoing basis to clarify all the issues raised by the Committee. This has been important to ensure good interaction and procedures around the future disposal of unarranged defence equipment. It implies, for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, ensuring that exports are subject at all times to the control imposed by the Export Control Code and in accordance with the practice of the majority of the Grand Duchy. The Committee’s setting covers a number of issues from 2006 to the present. The cases have been thoroughly clarified without any error in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' case being detected in my opinion. However, there is always a link between learning points and such a comprehensive review of such a wide range of issues as the Committee has contributed to. Common to all cases is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has based itself on the information submitted to them by the various exporters in the sales of former defence equipment. Here I would like to point out that the vast majority of these cases relate to the time when civil equipment that would only be subject to licensing through the prisoner-alt paragraph, the current §7(c) of the export control regulation. It is important to stress that, at the time of the application for the matters in question, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not have reason to doubt the information provided by the exporter. In this context, it is important to recall that the exporter has a legal obligation to provide correct and complete information, reinforced by the strict criminal provisions of the Export Control Act of up to 5 years in prison and/or fines, which may apply if an exporter provides incorrect or incomplete information in a licence case. Nor shall there be any doubt that, on a general basis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes a serious view of any possible breach of the export control legislation. There are indications that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been provided with misleading and possibly incorrect information from operators in the context of the licensing assessments of some of the cases examined. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore reported the sales of the six MTBs and the KNM ‘Horten’, KV ‘Agder’, MS ‘Åhav’, ‘Loch Ness’ and KV ‘Titran’ to the Riksadvokat as possible offences and actively contributed during ongoing investigations to the best information possible. It is now important to await further consideration by the prosecution authority before drawing the final conclusions on causality in these specific cases. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs attaches great importance to ensuring good information to exporters. This is done through major seminars, in meetings with individual actors and through information material. The Ministry of Defence and Defence have also been the subject of ongoing and preventive information activities on export control legislation. However, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2014 considered that parts of the export control legislation may have previously provided too much discretion for exporters as to whether or not a product was subject to a licence. In order to ensure that the provisions on licensing obligations for military equipment are as clear as possible, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs chose in September 2014 to strengthen control by introducing a specific licensing obligation for all demilitarised materials which have been specifically modified or developed for military use, irrespective of the state of export from Norway. Once military – always licensing. With this in mind, there is no doubt that demilitarised defence equipment, such as former military vessels converted for civil purposes, is subject to licensing independence from the state at the time of export. I believe that this clarification on licensing obligations has helped to reduce the risk of similar issues in the future by submitting to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs such cases for ordinary licensing assessment. At the same time, I would like to stress that Norway does not practise a ban on the export of out-of-court defence equipment. The Committee recommends that the Government take the necessary steps to ensure a seamless flow of information between the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Defence Director, so that accurate and up-to-date information is available when such information is desired. The Export Control Code is based on the submission to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the necessary and correct information when assessing the obligation to issue an export licence. Everything else is subject to infringements of the export control legislation with its strict criminal framework. As a consequence, following the change in regulation in 2014, the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has worked to strengthen the internal procedures of the Defence Agency relating to the disposal of former defence equipment. In the proceedings of the Defence Disposal, a separate series of meetings has been established between the Ministry of Defence, the Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on pending and planned disposal cases with a view to optimum coordination, and not least a common understanding of the legislation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will further contribute to this work with a separate orientation for key defence sector personnel on export control legislation in order to ensure a common understanding of roles, duties, responsibilities and interfaces between stakeholders in line with the Committee’s recommendations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs feels that the recommendations of the Control and Constitutional Committee, in conjunction with the measures already implemented, will contribute to a reinforced control of exports of out-of-court defence material. I would like to stress that the Ministry will continue its work on the export control legislation in line with the premise of the bulk of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1620	I raised two questions in my article. I choose to interpret the post from the foreign minister to the point where we don't run with what Michael Tetzschner was in on, to take a nap in the belly button. I don't think it is necessary for me to have any further clarification, because I hear in the post that what has happened in the control committee is taken seriously, and you also come up with concrete, very specific ideas about how this can be improved, to make sure that this doesn't happen again. The second question was whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes anything about whether this case should have consequences for someone at all, or whether it is as I put it, that 'hit happens', let's just put this behind us and move on, and then we're going to make sure that this doesn't happen again in the future. What applies to backwards in time, consequences, etc., we shouldn't think about anything particularly now. Is the Foreign Minister of the opinion that this is the way it should be, or should this have consequences for those responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1627	It is true, as the representative also states, that with regard to the debate between the representative Raja and the representative Tetzschner, I believe that I have indirectly addressed these questions in my statement, which also commented on the follow-up points that we have had and will have, based on the position that exists today. We have taken the initiative to clarify the issue of demilitarized military material, which has created some uncertainty, and which is the basis for some of the issues that are now up. In addition, there is an ongoing investigation into these cases, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also reported some of these cases to the National Attorney, so we will also wait. As far as the issue of consequences is concerned, it has probably been addressed to staff who are not under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1636	I thank you for your answer. It is very positive that we now at least agree – after both hearings. 1 and 2, the debate and the matter, and that one of the leading government councils and representatives of the Right believes this – that this is not the same as playing on the navel. And then we're done with it, and we're going to have that statement buried. Secondly, I understand that this does not fall within the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – it belongs to another Council of State – but you can have some reflections anyway. And I understand that the case has been sent over for investigation, etc. There are some kinds of consequences, but then there is something called political consequences and taking political responsibility, etc. The Minister of Foreign Affairs may well have some reflections on this — whether this should end with the fact that there is no need to have any political consequences for any of those employed in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1645	This case has led to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs having prepared the legislation. We have made a change that has been – in my opinion – necessary in the case of demilitarized, once military, material. Licence obligations will always exist there. But as I also underlined in my post, I have not found any points through that review and the hearings that have taken place – neither in the time of former foreign ministers nor in the time I have controlled this – where there has been something that has not been done in relation to what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to deal with in terms of export control. But as I said, we all learn from the processes that have been, and there is a not insignificant need for information about this. I explained all of these points in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1652	On the last question, I will also consult with the Minister of Defence. Another theme that has been raised, as Dagbladet revealed, is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been led to believe, through two documents, that the material was going to a place other than it was actually supposed to be. Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs had any reflections about the way one has been tricked by a parallel department, and has he been led to believe that the transport licences you were about to give were wrong? One was diverted in the wrong direction. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about his department being led by a parallel department in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1659	Now it's not like there's departments asking for an export licence, at least not in the cases we've been up here now. I said in my post that there are cases where the exporter should have applied for a licence, and that has not happened. It is not everyday that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – in the cases in which we believe that they should have applied for a licence and have not done so – has found it necessary to report these matters to the National Attorney. We are now awaiting the review and investigation that is taking place in some of these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1666	I also thought that the tidy and audacious article for the foreign minister was a clear enough article in the 'navel pill' discussion. But I'm going to ask you something completely different, that is, about a special relationship with the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has joined me here: it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that gives export licences, but the information they give comes entirely from other actors, from the exporters, and one is totally dependent on them providing correct information. These include: the customs director pointed to in the hearing, it is a trust-based system that can create challenges if one is dealing with the environment and actors who have no reason to trust. I could imagine asking the foreign minister: has this been a theme that one has followed up internally after this – how one works, how thoroughly, etc. – to deal with these kinds of situations, when there is an actor who obviously cannot trust, which it may be sometimes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1674	I believe that the clarification we have now made – that former military material always, although demilitarised, is subject to licensing – makes the information and understanding of the legislation easier. This is also in line with what some other countries have. This with the export licence and the obligation to apply for it is a serious issue. As I also said in the post, it is so that you can actually be punished with prison for up to five years by both incorrect and non-reporting. The law states the seriousness of these questions. But what we have done, and as I also explained in the post, is that we have now taken the initiative of even more information about the legislation, so that it is known, and also of a better dialogue with the various people who may be about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1683	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1686	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for the work on both hearings and voting. Over the course of a year and a half, we have now thoroughly dealt with several issues relating to the disposal of unarranged defence equipment. Among other things, we have been through two hearings. This is an important matter, it is a complex matter, and it is a matter that I stated at both hearings that I was happy to have been revealed, because it has given rise to a very necessary cleaning work. The matter is also complex because it partly goes back a long way in time, and although we do not currently have any indications of deliberate retention of information, there is a lack of archiving, lack of documentation and traceability over a long period of time. And it's also made that when you're trying to reconstruct, it's of course complicated because there's no more documents. As you know, parts of this case complex are also being investigated by Ecocrim. Let me stress, as I also did in the hearing, that no one is accused or convicted in the matter, but it has been taken out of court for corruption. At the same time, other aspects of the matter are very simple. There are rules on material disposal and those rules must be followed. It has not always happened in these cases. That is why I have implemented a number of measures, some of which are comprehensive. In addition to the hearings and minutes of the Committee's proceedings and the extensive correspondence with the Committee, much of the detail lies around it. I am therefore not going to spend time looking into the details of the individual matters. I would like to focus here on some of the measures that have been implemented, in addition to the measures that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned in his introduction. In the hearings on 30 April and 27 November last year, and in the comprehensive correspondence with the Committee, I have briefed the Stortinget on the improvement measures that have been taken. I note from the opinions given by the Committee that it is ‘fully satisfied that the Departments and Defence have taken action and that the measures taken are correct and necessary’, and that the follow-up is also welcomed. There are important feedback to the ministry, and there are important feedback in the follow-up work we will continue to do. Let me then briefly describe some of what has been done to ensure proper disposal processes, and here it is important to stress that disposal in this sense is both sale, destruction and donation or transfer free of charge. On 20 November 2014, the Ministry of Defence clarified that the powers relating to the disposal of material should be conferred on the Chief of Defence until further notice and not be delegated to the FLO. After the establishment of the Armed Forces Unit, it is clarified that the powers relating to the disposal of material shall be assigned to the entity centrally and not to the executive branch further down into the organisation. It is stressed that this scheme should ensure independent and independent control of material disposal cases. In the context of the establishment of the new establishment from 1 January, the Ministry has placed great emphasis on good internal control in order to provide the basis for sound management of the material in the future. The need for more strategic management of the material area and a shorter and more direct control line across this field were the background. The Ministry of Defence, in dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has drawn up a list of matters which must be clarified before the sale in Norway and before the export of materials. The list was sent to the Defence Agency on 27 April 2015 and is now implemented as part of the Ministry of Defence's material management policy. These so-called checklists specify, among other things. studies on the buyer to be made, the information to be provided to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The lists further lead to case handlers in the defence sector's departments to ensure that the information between the parties on export control issues is good. It has also, as the Committee is familiar with, explored the legal scope for excluding buyers from auctions. We have also established regular coordination meetings between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the disposal and export of materials to ensure the flow of information and build a common understanding. The defence and defence equipment are also involved here. The Ministry of Defence, supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will hold a special seminar on export controls for all relevant parties in the defence sector as part of the strengthening of competence and further strengthening the established understanding between the actors. The seminar will be held for the first time on 14 June of this year and will be a further contribution to ensuring that the actions undertaken and the improvement work will have the necessary effect. A series of regulatory and routine changes is presented both in the correspondence and in the hearings. I have also assessed a closer regulation and tightening of the disposal of material, and I will come back to it later in the article. The defence continues to review all disposals until 2002. That work will take time, but will help to create the necessary overview. I note that in its comments the Committee writes that questions should be asked about whether it is appropriate to review all matters. Of course, we will consider this on an ongoing basis, but until further notice I want to check these matters, which go even further back in time. So far, the ongoing review has not revealed any malaise, but I have said before and I stress again today that I cannot guarantee that it will not show up any more old things, and I cannot guarantee that there will be any errors in the future either. Although most of the things we're going through now have a long story that started years ago, there's no doubt that I'm taking clean-up responsibility, and I'm taking it seriously. The Ministry follows closely the governance dialogue with the agencies with a view to implementing the measures and not least the impact they have over time. The necessary follow-up is carried out on an ongoing basis. Where appropriate, additional actions will be commissioned by the Heads of State or Government. As you know, the new department of Defence must, among other things, handle discards. All sales of discarded material from the defence sector shall now be made by this department. This helps to ensure that the sale of such material is carried out by an environment with dedicated competence in commercial matters, material management including disposal, and with a focus in this area only. Following the revision of the guidelines on material management in the defence sector by the Ministry in January of State, the responsibilities of the Heads of State in relation to disposal and export have been clarified and comprehensive overviews have been incorporated on the matters to be assessed and clarified in the event of the disposal of materials. The Heads of State or Government in the defence sector may continue to carry out donations of material in some cases, with a sum of up to NOK 30000. However, such donations are subject to strict restrictions. For example, all donations of sensitive material and material subject to licensing requirements shall also be authorised by the Ministry of Defence on a case-by-case basis. The Ministry of Defence cooperates with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence to ensure that the necessary measures are put in place and that responsibilities and roles are clearly understood. The hearings of the Control and Constitutional Committee in 2015 and the debate today do not end our work. Improvement measures in the defence sector will continue to be closely followed up by the Ministry until we are sure that the measures have achieved the desired effect, by following established requirements and duly documented. This is ongoing work, which also means that there may be changes in procedures and requirements when we gain experience with the measures implemented. Our aim is to ensure thorough, well-documented and sound management in the defence sector. This is a work we follow continuously, and I want special attention to be paid to the enforcement of the measures taken. The Committee has been kept informed about the issues we have followed up, including after the hearings. On 21 April, I sent two reports that have been notified to the Committee, an updated final report on the disposal of the F-5 fighter aircraft and a final report on the material disposal processes in the sector. Both reports were initiated by the Ministry of Defence as part of our follow-up and improvement of disposal work in the sector. Both reports and the ministry's ongoing work on them have been made known to the Committee through references in previous correspondence, in the hearings and in particular with regard to the report on F-5 fighter aircraft, explicitly in the Committee's comments in the vote of 15 March. Both reports have also been routinely transmitted to the National Audit Office, in line with common practice. In addition, the report on internal procedures for disposal was discussed at both hearings, both in April and November. It was then found that material from the internal audit was being reviewed in the ministry to assess the improvement measures that needed to be implemented. The last part of the ministry’s examination of the reports was the implementation of improvement measures against the agencies in the defence sector. This was formalised on 15 April this year through the so-called ‘Precisions, amendments and additions’, PET, to letters of implementation to the defence sector for the Long-term Plan 2013–2016. That same day I was presented with a summary of the report and the follow-up work by the department. Therefore, it is important that we also added the letter that Økokrim then sent to us, namely that they related to the case of F-5 fighter aircraft do not have an investigation aimed at this disposal. They have also noted that the updated final report of the Ministry of Defence’s internal audit will not be subject to further follow-up by Ecocrim. The internal audit concludes in the final report that the sale carried out in 2015 was approved by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US authorities and rejects the claim from the first report that the aircraft may have been disposed of by others, contrary to the legislation. I would also like to add that the National Audit Office routinely receives all our reports from our internal audit department. In other words, the National Audit Office is familiar with the report on internal procedures for the disposal of material and both the preliminary and final report on the sale of F-5 fighter aircraft. None of the two reports revealed maladministration. The recommendations from both reports have already been implemented or are being implemented. The Committee also commented in its additional opinion that the Committee was in favour. In line with the practice, the Ministry of Defence has also published on its websites — while the Committee was receiving the documents — upgraded versions of classified reports. So to the request decisions I to V in the Committee’s opinion of 15 March: first I and III. The members of the Committee did not specifically mention these Roman Numeral Decisions, but I assume that it is not intended, and I intend to mention them. In the opinion, the Committee asks that the government introduce full transparency around the sales processes of the defence and the sale of out-of-court defence material to private operators by publishing what has been sold, the buyer, the sales total and the intentional end-use after the sale has been completed. The majority also asks the government to assess further the regulation of the sale of end-of-life Norwegian defence equipment to private operators abroad. I would like to ask our offices to facilitate the publication of information on the sale of material to private operators. The government will appropriately return information to the Storting on how best to operate such a scheme and what needs to be taken into account, as appropriate, in response to information related to confidentiality. As regards the sale of discontinued Norwegian defence equipment to private operators abroad, I have, as I announced in the hearing on 27 November, made a more detailed assessment of the regulation of this. All sales of licensed material to non-defence actors shall now, following the revised material management guidelines, be subject to FD approval on a case-by-case basis. In addition, I have assessed the possibilities for further regulation of the future disposal of material. I have decided that any future sale of material by brokers will be approved by the Ministry of Defence in the individual case. I have also decided that all sales in Norway to foreign operators should be treated as sales to the rest of the world. In such cases, it is necessary to clarify any licensing obligation with the U.D. and to obtain approval from the Ministry of Defence. Another constraint is that all sales in Norway of licensed material shall be based on provisions that any subsequent export of the material shall be subject to approval by the Ministry of Defence. As a starting point for the further disposal of materials, the sale of licensed materials to the rest of the world shall preferably only be made to authorised national authorities and operators authorised in the country of destination. All such sales to the rest of the world of licensed material will continue to require approval by the Ministry of Defence. Such a system ensures increased control of the buyer of out-of-court defence equipment and at the same time allows for the disposal of material for particularly suitable purposes, such as: to international relief organisations. I have further to assess a stop in all the auctioning of larger material, such as. trucks, belt wagons and larger vessels, which means that direct sales must then be made instead of auctioning. In my view, this will contribute to the necessary control of the use and end-use of such materials. Such regulation of the sale of licensed materials to the rest of the world and stop in the auctioning of larger materials will further tighten the possibility of selling materials to private operators abroad. It will continue to be possible to sell licensed and larger materials after such regulation, but then through direct sales under the control of and after closer assessment in the ministry. I still want to keep the possibility of donation open, but donation should follow the same tightening that I have now explained. Here it is also important to add that over time experience can show that you want to do things differently, but I think this is a measure that is now right to be implemented. The representative, Lundtigen, had a very central point in his statement, namely that the sale of belt wagons came particularly as a result of criticism of a lot of destruction of belt wagons in the early 2000s. This is the dilemma of these assessments. Therefore, it is important to note that a reduction in the sale of material as a result of such changes will lead to lower revenues from sales, leading to higher costs of storage and destruction. It is difficult to calculate the exact economic impact as it is, among other things, depends on the type of material, it depends on the market situation, but the consequence will be that any resources that would otherwise have come from sales and been channelled for higher priority purposes, inter alia. operational activity and activity, in which case it will not be possible to do so. The framework for the tightening up of the sales of materials will be clarified by means of the budget proposal for the autumn. To give some figures from the last few years: in 2013, materials were sold for 129.4 million. SEK, 2014 for SEK 144,9 million. kr. The reporting for 2015 indicates that it has been sold for gross 44.7 million. kr. The budget for 2016 is 23 million. kr, but the first figures indicate that 6,3 million have been sold so far. kr. It's just to give the committee an idea of what sums we're talking about. I'm going so far to II, IV and V. In this setting, the Swedish Government is asking the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure seamless information flows between the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Head of Defence, so that correct and up-to-date information is available when such information is requested. The Government is also asked to ensure that the defence has the same understanding of the interface of responsibility as the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the legislation governing the disposal of former military equipment. The majority further requests the government to evaluate the methods of control and documentation for the sale and export of out-of-court defence equipment to the rest of the world and to have sufficient information on the foreign buyers. As I've been in the past, on 1 January of this year we established the defence equipment department, and it is now this department that is responsible for all sales of defence equipment. We have established procedures and meeting series between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in which representatives of the Defence and Defence Matters participate. This is to ensure just a seamless flow of information and not least early clarifications on the sale and export of materials. As I've been in the hearings, some of the challenge has been that we've only been based on deviation reporting and not really dealing with matters on an ongoing basis, and that's why things don't come up unless there's someone who discovers that it's a red flag. This is an attempt to rather be proactive and talk about the issues before any exports. We have also introduced checklists for the disposal of materials in cooperation with the U.D. Procedural agents in the defence sector shall use the lists in order to ensure correct and necessary information between the parties. We are also conducting, as I mentioned, a special seminar to ensure that the measures taken and the improvement work will have the necessary impact. The Committee's decisions will therefore, in my opinion, be well taken care of through the measures I have now outlined. The note in the supplementary position of a unanimous committee to follow up the F-5 sale is also made through these measures – and the fact that of the eight measures in the F-5 report mentioned, four are already implemented and the four others are being implemented. There shall be no doubt in any of the actors as to the requirements applicable to the disposal and export of defence equipment. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs manages the export control legislation and the defence sector relates to the provisions in force. As both the head of defence and I stated in both hearings, the defense was responsible for providing the U.D. sufficient information to assess the licensing obligation in these cases. I trust that the Chief of Defence and other Heads of State in the defence sector will comply and contribute to the proper implementation of the measures now in place. This implies implementing the necessary actions in their own organisation, so that adequate resources and competences follow the tasks assigned to them. An important reason for this is also clearly stated by the head of defence during the hearings. In the first hearing on 30 April, the head of defence was very clear that there were shortcomings both in the follow-up to legislation and in the proper handling of cases. He points to breaches of both the normal and export control rules. He goes on to tell about what he feels is a system failure that should have been asked control questions at earlier times, but no one in the Defense asked control questions about. The Chief of Defence is aware that the Defence Officer is responsible for carrying out the necessary investigations in the material to be transferred to the U.D. In the first hearing, the Chief of Defense further states that he stresses that they take seriously the facts that are critical here. The next hearing also made it clear from the head of defence – and I think that is quite right and important – that it is their responsibility, that is, the responsibility of the defence, to provide the right information in this case. So the head of defense also says that there has not been enough control, and that there has not been enough emphasis on this control or these requirements in the normal instructions. The Chief of Defense also concludes by saying that the Defence Logistics Organisation did a job that in many areas was not good enough, and the Chief of Defense says clearly: ‘I’m sorry, it’s my responsibility.’ I believe there are important feedback from the head of defence, and there are feedback I put into the further work we are doing, together with the Defence and the head of the department who is responsible. I will continue to work to ensure the safe disposal of material and, in particular, good, traceable work processes. The Ministry of Defence will evaluate the measures either undertaken or planned to be taken in the area of disposal after they have had their effect for some time, and not least when the effect can be measured subsequently. The clearing work will not end with this debate. It goes on with the same strength. It is incredibly important that this work continues to be followed up. I take the cleaning work very seriously, and we will continue to do so, and new measures will be implemented if necessary. Then I will end by pointing to something that more people in the committee have been involved in, and as I think there is reason to stress and also to say that I fully agree, namely that one of the greatest challenges has been to obtain information and not least to be able to confirm or invalidate the information that is coming. Much of the reason for this was that I was thinking about the whole opening of my post, namely that there is a lot of documentation that is not available and that is not easy to reconstruct. One of the things we do, among other things. has been done by the Ministry, asking for transparency in the currency register – we have received a two-fold refusal – because it could provide more information about some of the transactions. At the same time, neither the department nor the control committee are set up as investigative bodies and therefore do not have all the warrants and powers, but I feel confident that this is a matter such as this. Ecocrime can do something in its investigation of these issues, because there is information that will be valuable and that could help to shed more light on this. I said in the hearings that there is one thing I wish I could do differently, it is to have given more information earlier, if I had it. It has taken time, and it took particular time at the beginning, actually to get an overview of the information and get verified or verified if that information was correct. I feel that it is now in a completely different state, in the sense that it is well-lit, except for the areas I have been talking about, where there is still no documentation. We have, in my opinion, come as far as we can come to reveal this information, but this case complex and parts of it are, as I said in the Ecocrim investigation, and I would assume that it is likely that Ecocrim also has methods and wants to find information that we do not have access to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1769	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1772	The council says that the work continues with the same strength. That should be reassuring. I want to follow something up what that means. The Ministry of Defence's internal audit presented its report on 11 April 2016, which mentions the F-5 fighter aircraft: ‘The role of the Ministry of Defence is limited.’ It is quite special that, in my opinion, the internal audit process goes down to the level of the case manager, while – it is quite striking – the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been mentioned to a limited extent. Do the Councils agree with that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1784	We therefore just started working on the second internal audit report, which was sent to the Committee, precisely to explain whether the department, defence and sector had a large enough degree of internal control and maturity in the processes. That is where the question of the handling of the ministry comes in, and it applies at a general level. We've had a desire to shed light on our own role, our own routines, because we clearly see that there is an important link between our routines and the routines of the Defense and the Departments. That's why we've also worked closely with Special Defense in the first place, to create new routines and new rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1789	My question was reasonably simple, and I feel that I did not receive an answer. The internal audit has fallen to the level of the case manager in a thorough manner, but one writes: ‘The role of the Ministry of Defence is limited.’ Does the Council of State agree that revision should be carried out in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1799	As the representative Lundtigen will remember, the F-5 report from the internal audit came up on the basis of an external tip we chose to act on. This means that there is an internal audit report that is slightly different from the second internal audit report. In the F-5 report, the internal audit has addressed the period 2002-2015 and revised what they consider to be related to the external tip that came. It was particularly about an external tip saying that it was a pre-allocation of the various potential buyers, and that it could have done wrong. I believe that the department had no choice but to act on, within the framework that was then important to be revealed, namely whether this tip had hold of it, or whether it didn't have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1806	I understand that I am not getting an answer to that question. I'm moving on. The departments' offices were regularly briefed on these sales. From experience, we know that the government of a department is briefing political leadership on the first occasion if important information emerges that needs to be responded to politically. Can the Council of State sign that this is the way the department works, even during the functioning of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1813	Of course, the agency informs us when there are things that indicate deviations or challenges, and I also explained that in the hearings. At the same time, my predecessors also explained how they had been informed about the individual sales, and as I mentioned in the hearing: I saw one report related to one of these ship sales, and that was in connection with leaving the port. But there was not a report that was related to that there was anomalies or other things, for this was not revealed at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1818	Does what the Council of State now says, that in the meetings held where the Ministry of Defence was represented, no information has been provided from the people of the Chief of Defence down in the system that is such that there would be any change – that is, that information has been withheld from the Chief of Defence and its underlying bodies against the Ministry of Defence? Is that what the Council of States is now trying to say?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1824	No, that's not what I'm trying to say. I am trying to answer the question asked by the representative Lundtigen about how these meetings worked. The Ministry of Defence has been very familiar with the role of an observer in the past, but these are matters that have not been known – as the Committee is well known through the hearings. So it has not been natural for these matters to come up either. It was only after they knew that we could take care of the cleaning work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1829	Is it such that when a person sits in a meeting as an observer or as a meeting participant, it has a different consequence as to what one hears, what one understands, or what one does not understand, which is then to be passed on from those who are there from the Ministry of Defence to political leadership?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1834	No, and that's not what I'm saying either. I'm just trying to explain how these meetings took place, and at the time, there was nothing to suggest – it was not known – that there was anomaly, that there was a lack of evidence, or that there could be potential mishaps. So that's what's at the heart here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1839	One last question: Is it correctly understood that what the Council of State is now saying is that in the meetings that were regular, it was not informed by the head of defence in such a way that the Ministry of Defence could do something with, among other things. the sale of the boats to Nigeria?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1844	The question of what could be done with the sale of the boats to Nigeria needs to be addressed to former government councils — what kind of information they were given to those points of sale. It has also done so at the hearings. But as I was talking about, this was about what information was available at the time, and that information is explained if you see that there is something that is problematic. That's also why we've changed the system. I do not think it is a satisfactory solution that it is only a deviation report, and that when the cases first come up, it is either because they have been revealed, or they have happened a long time ago. I want problematic issues to be dealt with before they become problematic, and this is to be done in a dialogue between the actors who are jointly responsible for either the export control code or the export, so as to avoid this kind of issue happening and are proactive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1851	I want to start by saying – and I think more representatives will agree with me – that it was a very good post of the Council of State held from the pulpit. It was very forward-looking and thoughtful about the changes that are needed to make sure that similar events don't happen again. I'll praise that in all sorts of ways. It's very positive -- at least with the undersigned. Some of the role of the control committee is not only to look forward and propose how to ensure that such things do not repeat themselves, but there is also something to look back at. A question that still remains unanswered is whether the Minister of Defense believes this should have consequences for some, or whether what has happened needs to be put aside and only look ahead. The fact that there are reactions also says something about the seriousness of the matter, and how you think similar things will have to be handled in the future. Does the Council have any thoughts about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1858	I thank you for the rose, but I also stress what I was about in my post, namely that this case has already had very serious consequences. It has really meant a complete change in the area of disposal, and we have, of course, established new procedures and new rules. There's a completely different focus on this area now than it was before. In addition, I have now pointed out further tightening we are going to do, just to make it even clearer to make sure that there is a good control over this whole area. There may be some consequences in the sense that there will be less income, but I believe that it is justifiable – with a situation that we can get into in the future, precisely because we have a lot of material that will soon go into life – also to dispose of and sell. Then it is important to have good rules and procedures. As I was also in my post, I am confident that the head of defence and other heads of state will follow up on what is now being implemented and will be implemented, and I take note of what the head of defence said in the hearings that he was sorry and took responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1865	With the risk of becoming a bad opposition politician, I would say it was a very good post, on the border of the driver – on the border, right enough. So I only have one poor question: I thought it was very wise of the Council of State that she, in addition to reviewing the case, went through and explained a little reason for what we call the lack of openness, the problems of getting documentation and so on. I would like to ask myself: if a medium were to begin the roll-up of what they think, for good or bad reasons, is a major defence issue or a matter that reveals major, significant errors in the defence sector - can the Council of State say with great certainty that there would be greater openness from the Department and the Council of State than it was in the beginning of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1872	As the representative Solhjell and I also talked about during the last hearing, one of the challenges was that there were a lot of requests for transparency, and that's understandable. We're dealing with almost 3,000 a year – that's quite a lot, and we're going to deal with it in a real way. We have to take into account privacy rules, we have to take into account privacy, and we also have to take into account the information to the public. That means that in some contexts we spent too much time in the proceedings, and that means that in some contexts, especially in the initial phase, we were too careful about what we gave insight into. We've done a lot about that, and we've also started our own project in the department where we're going through our own routines and our own policy to ensure faster processing, and that we always make sure to practice the more publicity and openness we want to practice. It can be done within the framework and rules that exist, and I think it's important that we do it. Because there is a substantial amount of information to the public, including on these types of cases, that the public has both an interest in and a requirement to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1877	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1880	I now believe, after hearing both the intervention of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence in this debate, that there is reason to say that the work of the Control Committee has been useful. Both statements from both state councils show that the respective departments, and therefore the government, have taken the matter very seriously, and I interpret it this way – and I don't think it's any over-interpretation – that that means that it also means that they are very much in agreement with the position and criticism put forward by the control committee in this matter. It is very good, because then we have come to where I, for my part – and certainly on behalf of the committee – can say that it was of great importance that we went into this matter, that one and a half years of work has been necessary and correct, and that we hope that we never get such a case back in Norway. If we achieve that, and I think that – as I hear the Councils now – we have done the right and necessary parliamentary control work, and the approach of the Committee of Inquiry in this matter has been correct. I'll say that first. So I would say – that has already been said, but I would also like to say it – that I would like to thank the entire committee, and in particular the case-law rapporteur, Helge Thorheim, for all his work. There has been a great deal of work, and the rapporteur, Mr Thorheim, has managed this work in the Committee in a very good way. I would also like to express that in my capacity as Chairman of the Committee. So I would say the following – and something has already been said in this debate, of course, so far out, but anyway: how could this happen? I think that's the good question. Because even though we're there now, as I started this post with, I would say that we know now how it happened, we know that military material has been exported in violation of the legislation, we know that it's in places and in hands it shouldn't be – but we don't know the answer to the next question: why did it happen – in Norway? That's what's hanging in the air, and no one can answer. The Control Committee has not found the answer to that question: Why? I don't hear the state councils say that either. I am not asking them to do so now, but I just notice that they are not able to answer that question either. It is, I would say, dear big and dear government – and especially dear lodge – a very concern for us, for all of us, that we are unable to answer the question: Why does it happen – in Norway? We all agree that this is not going to happen, but it has happened. That's why I'm asking this rhetorical question. I can't answer it myself, and that's why I don't ask anyone else to do it, but I want to say it this way. There are some aspects of this that have already been mentioned, but which I must also address before this debate is over; questions that have been asked, but which are so wonderful. Because in all the provisions that the Storting has passed over the years – to which the governments have joined across all the party boundaries, because this has nothing to do with the lot boundaries – there are quite specific rules on how this should be, which we have all talked about here. The questions go from points A to G of the legislation – A to G, completely concrete things. It starts with the question -- this is A: ‘Is the customer a military customer or related to the military industry?’ Yes, so obviously in this case. But it was tried to hide, and that's the ugly thing. It's not just that it was obvious that it was, but it was tried hidden. It's an expression of system failure, well, but it's also an expression of a rather serious system failure that we have to figure out why happens. It concerns us all, in the hall and in the lodge. This is hanging there, but it must be said so clearly in order for us to be able to move forward. I agree with everything the Minister of Defense has said about what she should do. Congratulations on that, it's great – not a bad word. But it's not about that right now. It's about having these rules, but they're going to be broken. That's the problem. So to B: ‘Is the customer unknown or is it uncertain who the customer really is?’ It can be discussed, taking into account the knowledge that you actually gradually gained about who the customer was. It could be discussed, but it had to be perceived as extremely unclear. And is it unclear who the end-user is? CAS Global was a cover operation. There is no other way to say anything about it than that it was a deck operation. And then you say -- and that's what's a little too easy, and now I'm talking very directly here; I'm going to let myself, as much as we've been working on this: yeah, we just checked CAS Global a little too bad. Frankly, President, honestly! It is also permitted to say this after the Norwegian customs authorities, after the UK authorities have contacted them and warned against selling to CAS Global, say they have only checked a little too poorly. No, no, no! I'm just saying, I've been with a few years now, and I won't let myself talk to it that way, to say it right out. I almost can't listen to it. It is clear that there is a system failure – for all things. And it may – and I say it without reservation – that there are cheating servants here who are tricking people. She can. But a systemic failure in general? Of course it is, because it is not possible to export military ships to other countries as postal parcels. There must be a system that knows about it, that understands it, and that is behind this export. There shall be papers out and papers in order for the ships to be allowed to leave the berth. And then no one reacts, and no one discovers it, even though it is going on for a long time and many years, as the Minister of Defence said quite correctly. It's obvious that it's like this. I'll come back to it, otherwise. Then I say again, how can this happen in Norway, when rules and guidelines are as clear as they are? Well, it happens because you use CAS Global as a cover operation and say that this is British legal responsibility and British crew. Nothing of that is right. It's scary, of great importance and a big problem. I would also like to say – and that has already been said by a few of my colleagues, I know, but I should also say it; it was Special Representative Abid Q. Raja who said it – that in this system we are in the following situation – it says here in point E: Are invoices unusual? No, not directly, but we're talking about different types of sales documents. Think about it, then. It's a document fake, it's a criminal act in itself, that's what's going on in our systems. And when the representative Helge Thorheim and others ask about this in the hearing, the people involved say they don't remember: I don't remember this. It is totally unacceptable, of course – totally unacceptable. Then we move on to what needs to be said with great clarity – at least I get very involved in it – on behalf of our government councils, both of them sitting here: that both of them have to go to the police – to the police – to find out what has happened in their own administration, that is constitutional history with negative signs. Think about it! And as we have heard a number of times here, now that the Council of State Eriksen Soreide says again, and confirms today – what the Committee has taken on board in its assessment of her position in this matter, namely that she does not get the information she needs to tell the Stortinge adequately what has happened: Think about it – in Norway! And when the control committee goes into this, it's because I'm going to be able to say the following: we're going to end this. It should not be the case that state councils in a Norwegian government must address the Riksadvokat or Økokrim in order to know what has happened in their own administration. And the good government here in the hall can trust that they've raised 100 pst. in the back. That's why we hit the table – because we're not supposed to have it like that. These aspects of the matter were important to me, because they illustrate the seriousness of the matter and the substance of the matter, and I repeat: nobody in this room can answer why this really happened. Then to some other aspects of this matter: It is a debate about the relationship with the head of defence and the relationship of the head of defence with the Council of State. The representative Tetzschner has clearly criticised the majority's position here, and he has also received an answer. But of course I will also answer that question. I'm just saying formally that the whole process of the control committee's exercise of its function, as it is today, has its origin in the treatment of the so-called Frøiland Committee by the Storting. This has been a long time, but it's lying there. That's what's called the 'processor'. In these preparatory work, it is said clearly, and the Stortinge has joined it, we have found that after this has been so formally criticised, that it is of course so – and it also means the Workers' Party, and I think it also applies to what is called the'majority' here – that it is the Council of State that is responsible for the Stortinge, and the Stortinge knows only the Council of State. Let there be no doubt about it. But it is also clear that it is obvious that we have the opportunity to go in and talk to and ask about the representatives of the administration when it is necessary to ‘explain the matter’, in order to quote the Frøiland Committee in detail. It is also necessary and right for us to have opinions on the work of the administration whenever necessary. What does the majority here say? It is said that the Defence Manager – the current, Bruun-Hanssen – changed his mind from the first hearing to the second hearing. It surprised the committee, and we saw it as serious. We still have, of course, the situation that much of what happened in this case happened in the administration of the defense, and it is recognised. And I refer to everything I've said that we haven't got an answer to what's actually happened. The state council had to go to the police. Then we believe that it is necessary to point this out, as we do in the setting. It is not – as the representative Tetzschner says – to conduct human resources policy. It's expressing an opinion about the current situation, which is nothing but that. But it's in its place. That's what we're saying, with the reason that's in the setting, and that I've commented on here now. This is my view of this. Finally, I will talk about two aspects of Mr Tetzschner's intervention earlier in the debate here. One is that which was the suggestion, with reference to Mr. Eldegard's posts, where he thought it was just to initiate and promote distrust against the former state councils. It is a point of view without any political or actual evidence – a rhetorical view, nothing more than that. What the representative Tetzschner and the committee know very well is precisely this, which is about us going through this matter in the best possible way, and we – when I say ‘we’, I believe the Workers’ Party – have been active in getting our former government councils to consult to hear what they have meant. We, for our part, have not put party politics preferences on this – at all. We are not aiming at the Councils of State on one single occasion. Then it's unreasonable and wrong for the representative Tetzschner to make such rhetorical entries as saying, "Yes, it's just to start against the former state councils." I would like to say that I would point out again and again – because the representative Tetzschner believes that we are doing so much wrong – that both the last hearing and the previous hearing, i.e. both in this case, have been adopted unanimously in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. And I think – and I hope that the representative Tetzschner hears this and takes note of it – that he repeatedly in this room and in the public space, after he has approved the conduct of the hearing in the committee, criticises that it actually takes place. I think that the representative, Mr Tetzschner, should simply end up with that, because it does not fit politically, I would say. So to his characteristics of the committee and the members of the committee: I want to say that it is very regrettable – and here I use the weight in the word 'deplorable' in the parliamentary sense – that Michael Tetzschner gives the work of the committee and its members such a characteristic as he does. He doesn't just do it in this debate. He does it over and over again, and he does it also in the public room. The top of it all was that he characterized the hearings related to Telenor and VimpelCom, which we're going to have tomorrow, as if we were participants in a bad American B-film. If it had been performed from the Great Council's pulpit, it would have been in its place to use the club. What could be the purpose of such demeaning behavior? There can be no point but the idea of weakening the authority and place of the control committee, because it is a majority – and largely a large majority – that is behind the line that has led, among other things. this case. And the representative Tetzschner didn't think at any earlier time that all this was so useless. It's just opportunistic to say it now. And I mark very clearly at this point, because it doesn't have to continue. We cannot have a characteristic of the members of the Committee who are simply so politically demeaning when there is a political assessment that underpins honest political parliamentary work from all of us. We have heard the views of the Councils on this. They thought everything was useful. State Council Eriksen Soreide said she wanted to welcome the vote. It was a nice expression, and it puts the whole post that Michael Tetzschner had in the very right light. I end this article again by thanking you for a great and valuable work. I really hope that it will be that we do not experience such things anymore, that the Control Committee will not work for another year and a half with matters of this nature, that we have been told clearly that we are behind the government and the state councils in this matter, and that it will be absolutely necessary that we take care of the follow-up that the Council of State has now announced, as I think the Council of State Eriksen Soreide did in a good way. This will be adopted later today, as an operational conclusion to this very important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1948	I'm not going to spend a very long time at the end of this debate, but there are a few things I want to address from this pulpit. First of all, I must say I am pleased to hear that all the previous speakers have stated that the Council of State, Eriksen Soreide and Minister of Foreign Affairs, have handled this matter satisfactorily. That is something I agree with, and I think it is very nice that we are getting settled from this pulpit in this debate. It's important. Then there are some things that have been said from this pulpit that require a different handling than that. Firstly, I think we should be very happy that we are living in a state of law where the police have access to coercive measures of the nature we are talking about here, and that it is not the government and the council that sit with the coercive funds. That's good. When the representative Kolberg and others talk about the problem of obtaining information, it is precisely because we live in such a state of law, where the police have access to certain coercive measures after judicial review. That's good, and that's how it has to keep going. So there's another question raised by several, especially by the representative Kolberg: how could this happen? At the risk of perhaps simplifying a question that is quite complicated, there is one answer to that – if you ask me. There was a remarkable lack of attention from policy management on these themes from 2005 onwards. If you take these MTBs, which are now sailing outside Africa, as an example, in the mid-2000s, 3 billion were used. to upgrade them to prepare them for missions in the Mediterranean. Then they carry out that mission in the Mediterranean, and then they're to be disposed of. But what happens? Political management does not ask a single question down the system to hear how it works – not one single question. It was confirmed by former State Councillor Stroem-Erichsen at the hearing. What's going on? Well, former state councillor Barth Eide gets what's being described as a cliché of clear warning that there's an unculture going on in the disposal department. Things aren't what they're supposed to be. What's going on? Nothing. That's why we have a situation where there was no internal control, not something suspicious'mind seen', as customs director Røse would say. All you needed was a self-declaration, and that you promised to use these boats for good purposes, and that was okay. When you have a system that's connected that way, it's about a lack of attention on these themes. Now I'm not going to make this unnecessary polemics, because it's very easy to be watchful. When we're sitting with the information we're sitting with today, it's very easy to say that you should be more forward-looking, you should understand more. But it is still our responsibility politically to point to the responsibility. The responsibility was with political leadership from 2005 onwards. The attention was not there. Finally, I should like to comment on a matter which I think is important to be commented on by this chair. Someone's been up here talking about reality. I'll explain what reality I feel I'm living in. It's a reality where the Control and Constitutional Committee has one control mandate, and it's checking whether the government has done what the Stortinget has told the government to do. So simple and so difficult. So the representative of Kolberg points out that we only know the Council of State, and the Council of State is responsible for everything that happens in the department. Nevertheless, one of the topics on which the most time has been spent on this pulpit during this debate is a criticism of the lack of humility of the head of defence in the hearing. As if it were the task of the Control and Constitutional Committee to judge. Not only have you allowed yourself to comment on facts in the matter, facts in what has happened, facts in what has not happened, but you've gone to some kind of place – almost a dice throw over how humble the head of defence has been or has not been in contact with the committee. It's very special that it gets so much space both in the setting and also from this pulpit. Our task is to check whether the government has done what the Storting has asked it to do, not to shake the dice over whether you are humble or not. I think it is quite important to be said from this chair, and I think it is stupid that the representative Raja is not here now, so that he gets it with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1965	I would like to thank you for a good and thorough debate on a major issue, which is complicated, and which relates to different aspects of the sale of out-of-court defence equipment. I would also like to thank the two Councils for their excellent contributions and to express my satisfaction that the matters dealt with by the Committee seem to have been followed up in a very trusting manner. This case leaves the impression that we are dealing here with a well-developed culture, where loyalty to the legislation governing the disposal of discarded material is not taken care of enough. We see this happening at different levels in the Defence Department, and even the Ministry of Defence is not exempt from this. Unfortunately, an unfortunate culture has been allowed to develop over many years — yes, over many decades — without this appearing to have been corrected over time. It does not help to have good regulations and rules in our businesses if we do not have personnel who comply with the provisions described and determined by both the Department and the Storing. I would like to pay a great tribute here to the Minister of Defence for having demonstrated the power of action in order to help correct unfortunate ways of managing the businesses that are below her domain. I have full confidence that we will see a continuous improvement on this in the future. When it comes to changing culture, this is a long-term work, and I also hope that work on changing culture will be given a great deal of attention in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e1980	We are at the end of the debate. There are probably a lot of people who would like to be freed. I still expect that it will be understood – when the committee chairman, after he promised to start what he could hope to be a rounding, had a very personal visit to the undersigned – that I need to refute at least some of the things that can be discussed in substance. We're not allowed to extend the debate. It is important to be told that the criticism of the control committee stands. The criticism is not signed on its own. This is also due to the fact that unfortunately we have not been able to carry out a single hearing in accordance with our regulations. It says that we're going to figure out what the facts are. We're just going to make comments to the extent necessary to create coherence on the next question. We're not there to assess people's behaviour and attitude or to keep their sermons – so that's what they say. A more serious aspect is that the Committee has focused on areas that have simply disrupted the normal development of criminal proceedings. In this respect, I am pleased that the position of the Frøiland Committee has come into her hands, and that he may also have started to read it. It has just been taken as a pre-requisite that the Committee should delineate its activities against cases pending before the courts, and that is explicitly mentioned in the cases under investigation. When the chairman of the committee says I've been skeptical about some of the hearing days, that's right, but it's not really a hearing. 2nd@item: inlistbox What I said earlier today was that we got little out of the hearing no. 2nd@item: inlistbox The substance was in consultation No. 1, about the boat sales carried out by Kolberg's party traps. It is not correct, however, that I have been thinking of making any mistrust proposals against these. Of course, I am aware that it is an institute that is not available to the outgoing state councils. But if the representative of Kolberg is so confused about how bad the system has been managed in the past, his party traps have, after all, not gone away at death. After all, it is possible to call them and ask how it might be that this system could get through, among other things. these sales in 2009. With his intense interest in the matter, I am sure Kolberg will be able to find out about those phone numbers. The part of the hearing that I have strongly warned against was calling for the war captain – whom I personally do not mention by name here – who has long been admitted to being corrupt. I also had announcements, or reservations, against having a contact meeting with him in advance, even though I was invited there, where one should almost hear what kind of witness he could bear against the legal management. That's also how the committee practices zero tolerance against corruption, so you can use cheating servers if they can give arguments in a political discussion. I know that I strongly warned against the war captain being called to that hearing. That's it. When a criticism of tomorrow's hearing was brought in at the end, I can't remember ever going ahead and saying what tomorrow's hearing will be like. But that's right: I have characterized some of the hearings that have been conducted as something similar to what we sometimes see as fiction. I'm assuming that Hollywood B-film might not be of the highest quality, but I think it's going to pass as a quick characteristic. I think I'll settle for this. I just want to say, to say something positive, yes, we have it interesting in the control committee. I just have to admit that. That's a lot of challenges. I also have to say that in many ways I have a certain admiration for the form of the representative Kolberg if only you had lived up to the form with the content that you think is coming. It is true that if we use so powerful words and expressions that you get your integrity out of doubt if you have a different view than the committee management, it is clear that it is problematic. We need to be more capable of distinguishing between, for example: accidents and disasters. If you have very few tools in the toolbox, for example: A hammer, it's incredibly much like nails.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2002	Again with the former government councils of the Labour Party, which the representative Tetzschner now said I would call. This is not necessary because they have been present at the hearings concerned and they have answered the questions asked. What we have seen from the former state councils, and also from the current state council, is that they have not had sufficient knowledge of what has happened. It is serious for them, and it is serious for the current Council of State. I did not say that the representative Tetzschner said he would raise any mistrust of them, of course not, but my comment was referring to his characteristic of what the representative Eldegard said. That's what I said. I would once again argue that in this hearing and in the work of the Monitoring Committee in general, it is not that party political considerations are essentially based – sometimes to some extent, yes, because it is a political forum and not a legal case, but I am essentially happy to say that the Committee on Control is functioning properly. So I want to say something very precise: the representative Tetzschner now reserved himself for a contact meeting that we had with the current command. Now I don't remember the degree, but everyone understands who I'm talking about – I'm sorry, but I lost my degree. I want to tell the story about it, because Tetzschner now pronounces himself the way he does. He contacted the Board Vegar Solhjell and said he had information he would like to come with. He thought it was hard. The board Vegar Solhjell approached me and asked what I thought about it. I – and listen – contacted the committee's vice-president, Michael Tetzschner, and asked him what he thought about it, and he said it was okay. So there was a meeting between Bård Vegar Solhjell, Michael Tetzschner and me in my office. And I – about forgiveness, about forgiveness – also made a conference with the rapporteur on the matter, and Thorheim said that he too thought it was good. On that basis, I agreed to that meeting. And then Michael Tetzschner comes up here now and says he thinks it was odd. I think that's very eye-catching, because what I'm saying now is the true representation of it. This led – as an extension of it – to this hearing, which Michael Tetzschner did not oppose. While examining it, no one voted against it; it was a unanimous committee that accepted it. It's the truth about it – to say it like that – and not again this attempt to say it was strange, it shouldn't have happened, it was outside, and it didn't fit. So the last thing that I'm giving is characteristics. At least I don't give personal characteristics, but I give politics. I believe that I am very safe as the committee leader, because I rely on a large majority in dealing with it, and I do not oppose a majority of the committee. When a majority of the committee has decided how it should be, it is up to the chairman of the committee and the committee to support it in public, even though on some occasions I have voted differently from the majority. But I don't go out and say it, because I don't think that's right for a committee leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2017	True it or not – in fact, in Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure § 55 it says: ‘The speaker should stick strictly to the matter under discussion.’ There are well up to several violations of that paragraph today, but I still want to say that it is a pity that a debate on such an important matter is so dominated by a form debate. I thought it might be a proper way to end the debate by saying that we are rounding off a long time of work on a very important matter, and I thought the Minister of Defense very clearly expressed that she and the Department have not finished the case, but rather stood before a rather long time of considerable follow-up work on all the cases. I appreciate that, and I expect that the Storting will cooperate in the best possible way on any changes that are relevant to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2027	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2043	We have now completed the national health plan in the United Kingdom, and there was, as usual, a big discussion about local hospitals. There is a big district debate, and birthing is often one of the keys to that discussion. But now that it's over, I want to raise the city's challenges in birth care. The figures I have received show that in 2015 it was so that all mothers reached the hospital throughout Troms and Finnmark – in 2015. The women who did not reach birth live largely in Stavanger, Bergen, and Oslo. When we talk about long travel distances in the context of maternity care in order to get there, we imagine the small district hospitals, while in reality they're the ones that don't get there, city mothers. In the consultation response to the National Health Level of the Association, the focus is also on the small food departments, but they also pointed out that the small ones have fewer complications and that the large ones are struggling with low manning. A while ago, there was a notice that midwives grappled to summer. It has something to do with this hall's decision on the admission rules for kindergarten, which makes us get a tree in the summer. Nevertheless, at Ullevål, in 2014, 185 mothers were rejected just before they were born, because it was full. In addition, we have a funding system that prioritises complicated births. In cities, we also see challenges in culture and language skills. There are complex urban communities, and mothers have different knowledge of languages and different knowledge of Norwegian maternity care before entering the hospital. In addition, we see that follow-up from midwives is probably also different, and that those with the most challenges are Aarhus, Haukeland and Ullevål. What many people experience when they come to a full hospital is being sent between the different hospitals in their region or sent home with a message to wait. The reason so many people don't come forward is that many people are sent home with notice to wait or call the midwife many times, and midwife says that here it's full, I hope you can wait a little longer – and then you wait too long. The government and the cooperation parties together have spent 767.7 million. on prevention measures in municipalities. There's not only a health sister in school, it's also pregnancy and maternity. But the challenge in big cities is different from that found in many districts. When I visited Greenland Health Station, where there are midwives and health sisters who follow up on maternity, I asked if they could tell me what are the most important things they're working on. Then everyone in the entire Greenland health centre was completely more sunny: the most important thing they do is: 1) violence, 2) poverty and 3) maternity care. It says something about what challenges they're facing. The problem then is that these are the ones at the bottom of the ladder, which they must give priority to, and in the usual birth care, for the normal mother with a normal job and a normal life, the challenges you face are not becoming demanding enough when they are to prioritise between the different groups that they have. We see in many places, especially in the east of Oslo, that those that are defined as a little bit more resource-intensive, don't get into the usual follow-up, because there are so many around them that need that follow-up so much more. We in the Left think one should have had a stepping-up plan, to bet on maternity care is one of the most important things we can do for good health later in life. We have a lot of research that shows that having a good birth care and a good follow-up of mothers the first time a parent is among the best investments we can make. Nevertheless, we see that especially in cities, it is a challenge to make it work. midwives have a very heavy workload. Studies were submitted a little ago that showed that a lot of them feel that they are not in line with the objectives that we have said we should be concerned about. This is key staff who are important for the beginning of a child's life. I also have to deal with one thing that worries me a lot, and that may seem like a little problem, but that is an incredible tragedy for all those who experience it. It's about the stillbirths we have, the kids who die in the stomach of the last part of their pregnancy. Here, too, we are not able to come here in Norway. It's not that evolution always goes to the worse, but it's had very little progress. We see that countries like Finland, Denmark and the Netherlands have systematically worked to reduce the numbers of young people who lose their lives in the last part of their pregnancy. This is a tragedy for every family, and it's kids that we can't lose. The Netherlands has managed to achieve a 7 pst reduction. per year since 2000. If Norway had managed to take care of babies as well as they do in the Netherlands, 60 children would have been rescued. What is done then is systematic analysis and research on those very groups. In 2013, there were 2.3 stillbirths in the last 28 weeks of pregnancy per 1,000. That means there were 140 kids who died. In 2014, it was increased to 2.8 per 1,000, which is 170 children that we lost. It has to be researched. We have to try to stretch to be as good at this as you are in many other countries. Then there is something that strikes me, when I visit both large and small hospitals and see the challenges there. For example, I was. in Flekkefjord for the week that passed, which has a maternity ward that has both gynecologists and surgeons present, but which conducts very active screening and follow-up of each individual to know whether there is a birth suitable for their hospitals, or whether a person should be sent to a larger hospital with more professional staff. What has struck me is that if you plan to have a birth in a hospital that has the special competence, you don't get that kind of screening. What happens to them in the districts to be born is that they get a completely different type of follow-up and assessment of whether it is a difficult birth than those who are going to be born in a hospital that is tipping top and ‘fit for fight’ for all the challenges you face. That's why there are many stories in the big-city hospitals about parents who don't feel well enough followed up, and many stories about mothers who are inside because they're worried, are told to take it easy, and then they come back a few days later, and then life is gone. We have to deal with this. This we have to have a plan to stop. If we're going to be as good as the Netherlands, Finland and Denmark to get that number down, maybe there's something we have to bet on earlier in pregnancy. My journey around Norway has made me feel sometimes that many mothers in the districts get a better follow-up than many mothers in the big cities, and we cannot accept that. We can't accept that because a person lives in a city, one has to bear that one doesn't get there, while we use a lot of resources to ensure that everyone reaches birth planned in hospitals elsewhere in the country. My challenge and my question to the Minister of Health is: how are we going to be able to work with these fields to get this similarity, and is it that mothers in cities get a worse follow-up than mothers in many smaller hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2073	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this important discussion. A birth is one of the greatest events in life and is usually attended by great expectations. The expectation of having a healthy child is very often present, but most also have a expectation of the very birth experience. A good birth experience provides a basis for better mental health in the postpartum period and better interactions between mother and child. Studies have shown that the woman’s own perception of birth is more important to her mental state in the future than any medical complications that arise in the maternity ward. It is therefore very important to facilitate the optimal birth experience of the unborn. I am therefore pleased that the representative Skei Grande is asking questions about some of the conditions that could create challenges in achieving this goal. The results of Norwegian maternity care are very good. Child and mother mortality is among the lowest in the world. We have lower incidences of cesarean cuts than many other western countries. We can be proud of such results. But there should be more work to ensure that the woman and her partner get a good birth experience. The main requirements for maternity care are reflected in the Annual Report A happy event, from 2009, and the Directorate-General for Health A safe food supply, from 2010. Health businesses have done a good job of improving the quality of birth care in the years following these requirements. These include: the establishment of accompanying services for pregnant women living far away from the place of birth, and selection criteria have been introduced, which were also addressed by the interpellant, for which women can be born at different types of food institutions. These measures have contributed significantly to improving the quality of birth care. Among other things, the number of transport births has dropped from 193 in 2010 to 124 in 2014. On a national basis, that means 0.2 pst. of all births are transport births. The proportion is naturally higher in counties with a long distance from the birth institution, but the number is highest in the major cities where the interpellant was located. Parental care poses a particular challenge by the fact that births are usually not fully planned. This leads to wide variations in the number of births that address the maternity wards. The variations are large from day to day, but there are also seasonal variations with the highest number of births in the summer, for which the Stortinget has a responsibility, for which the interpellant was involved. One example is the maternity ward at Akershu University Hospital. It is born from 5 to 29 children a day. These variations make it extra demanding to plan the crew. The number of births that can be accepted at the large women’s clinics is also influenced by the availability of space at the neonatal wards. Births are covered by the system of free treatment choices. Thus they can choose the place of birth. But it happens that sometimes the selected food institution does not have the capacity to accept the woman on the day of birth. In this case, arrangements must be in place to ensure that the pregnant woman is referred to another maternity ward with free capacity. This issue is most topical in the Oslo area, where there are several food departments within a limited geographical area. Cooperation between food establishments in and around Oslo has therefore been established to relieve each other where necessary. It is the food institution to which the woman addresses, who is responsible for providing space in another hospital and for obtaining ambulances if necessary. In other parts of the country, the problem is less topical. The health companies have informed me that birthmarks are not rejected at the women's clinics in Trondheim, Bergen or Stavanger. Occasionally, the birthing person does not reach the hospital until the birth is due. In 2014, there were 194 births, or 0.3 pst. of all births, unplanned home births. In Hordaland and Rogaland, the proportion of unplanned home births was slightly higher than the national average. In Oslo and South-Trøndelag it was a little lower than the national average, but the differences between the counties were small. Food institutions state that the main reason for unplanned home births is simply that birth is faster than the woman expects, not that she is rejected in the maternity ward. There is no over-representation of foreign-language birthers among those who are born unplanned at home. Several food establishments indicate that they have a lower threshold to accept births if there are language or communication problems. The Women's Clinic in Bergen has opened an offer called Speech. The offer is for women who are unsure whether they are born or feel unsafe at home. Here the woman is offered to stay after the assessment and examination of the midwife. During the hours the woman is on Speech, it will be clarified whether she is in birth, and she will either be transferred to the maternity ward or be able to go home. This is, in my opinion, a good measure that others should also consider. The women's clinic in Bergen has also changed the telephone contact procedures. Instead, the midwife who runs the guard phone takes the woman to the assessment to make sure she is not turned down. The same applies if there are language problems — she is also considered. These measures have worked. Haukeland University Hospital has recorded a decline in the number of women who have responded that they have felt rejected when they called the Women’s Clinic. All major food establishments have access to interpreting services. But since births are most often an acute event, it is not always possible to obtain interpreters during an ongoing birth. When it is possible to plan, interpreters are ordered or telephone interpreters are used. The food department at Bærum Hospital has launched a project that looks at the possibility of developing communication tools to secure the woman during birth. It shall also ensure that important information is provided in an understandable way — from patient to healthcare professional and back again. If this project produces good results, it should also be possible to use others. National quality requirements for maternity care provide a clear framework for the development of food supply. However, it is the health companies that are responsible for the compliance of the offer, so that the birthers can have a safe and good birth experience. High birth rates and fluctuations in the number of births place great demands on the organisation and staff planning of the large food establishments. This is work in progress today and should be intensified. There is also a need to provide more family-based maternity care so that the woman’s partner can be present during the maternity period. The use of interpreters should probably also be increased beyond what is happening today. Unplanned births outside the hospital are fortunately rare, and you see the big cities as a whole, they are not different from the country as a whole in terms of the birth rate, but we see, as the interpellant was about, that it is where the largest number is. The quality of food supply is a topic that is often on the agenda in the discussion between myself and the health regions. It will be in the future as well. The aim is that the offer is to be equivalent, to ensure a good result for mother and child while at the same time facilitating a good birth experience for the woman and her partner. It is good that we now receive attention around the offer of birthers in the big cities. As the interpellant was involved, there has been a lot of attention around the food supply in the districts. We also see that the birth message and the requirements that have led to a very clear awareness of the smaller food departments, good screening of the birthing and not least a continuity in the follow-up. For example, in Nordfjord in Sogn and Fjordane, we see that the municipality and health companies have joint employees of midwives, so that it is the same midwives who are responsible for them in the municipality, who also have the accompanying service, and who meet them afterwards. It gives security, and it gives continuity, and I'm going to think that the major hospitals here have a lot to learn from the smaller hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2115	Then the next speaker is Trine Skei Grande – for a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2118	Or new questions, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2123	It could be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2126	Firstly, I would like to stress that there is a lot of good work going on. All the figures that the Council of State provides show that we have a lot of good people around the country working on this, and that there's a lot going well. But when you're in a car with woes, Ahus and Ullevål don't feel like a neighboring hospital; they feel very far away. Many things that we accept in the cities, we had never accepted in the smaller hospitals. And it's a paradox that it's in the big cities you can't reach. It was supposed to be one or two that didn't come forward in Finnmark or in Troms. That would have been logical. If it's just that birth is a little faster than you think, maybe there should be one mother in Finnmark who didn't come forward. But it's not; it's all reaching out in those regions. While in Oslo, in Bergen and in Trondheim, we see that there are many who are not coming forward. I'm just a big representative, so I don't have the whole apparatus for Bent Höie, but I have a lot of citizens who turn to me. And when I have more citizens who address me with stories than the numbers of Bent Höie sum up, I'm a little bit unsure whether those numbers always report perfectly correctly. And then I'm going to go a little bit to the group of minority speakers and those who don't always know about their rights, where I've personally addressed issues where it's clearly under-reported -- because it's not so important to report about someone who doesn't always have the resources to stand on. So reporting events, I also ask a little more question. My main question to the Council of State, however, concerns the studies that show that for a few years we are actually going in the wrong direction with the small group that is experiencing the great tragedy of losing their child during the last weeks of pregnancy. When we see that we have neighbouring countries that have so much improvement in these numbers, at least we have to be able to do research and bet on finding out what's actually going on, because the vast majority of parents who experience this, or a quarter, get a clear message right away that we're never going to find an answer to this, while there are other cases that are much more complex. I believe that this is something we have a duty to figure out, that we have obligations to use the knowledge that our neighbours have used to get that figure down, also in Norwegian maternity care. So there were two questions: is the council also concerned about the big cities? And will he research the group that loses its life in the last few weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2137	Yes, I believe that there is reason to say that the offer in the big cities can be better. There is always reason to ask questions about what is the cause of a birth on the road in an area where there is a relatively short distance from the hospital. We have received feedback, as I said in my reply, that the main reason is not linked to a rejection, but that one is coming too late. Then there is also a question as to whether it may be related to the fact that since there is a short distance from the hospital, one thinks that a row ahead in time. But this is regardless of the relationship to which the whole thing is important to have attention. I believe that many of the measures that are being taken in Haukeland can help Oslo to learn from university hospitals, because this will also be individual. Some will experience rejection in a situation of uncertainty. Then exactly what has been done in Haukeland to establish Speech, a good alternative, and also that one has such a conscious attitude that when people with language problems contact, they should not be rejected, but invited to come to the hospital. A very clear follow-up to the hospitals is just that where one gets something, the other hospitals have to be better at learning from it faster and using the same tools. When it comes to the question of stillbirths and children who die during pregnancy, I almost have to get back to the numbers on it, because one thing is the evolution the representative refers to, another thing is the overall level. For whose countries have been behind the level of Norway — I know that in 2008 we had reports showing that Norway had the lowest proportion of children who died in Europe — moving in a more positive direction than us, because they have had a worse starting point, it tells something else than if Norway is worse off. So I have to come back to that. But we have, among other things, A new Autopsy Act has recently been passed in Stortinget, which will help us to gain more knowledge in cases where people die, and we need more research on the causes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2146	The interpellant travels an important matter, and it is easy to agree with the interpellant's description of maternity care as one of many services in our healthcare system that plays a key role in people's sense of security. Fortunately, Norway has a steady supply of good birth care. Child and mother mortality is among the lowest in the world, but this is a chance that must be defended every day. It doesn't come of itself. The Labour Party will have a safe and secure maternity, maternity and maternity care in Norway, and it was also our government that presented the Storing Message A happy event, as the Council of State pointed out in its response, which affects the main political leaders in this area. The main conclusion of the notification was a significant strengthening of the offer, and the Stortinget was at the time concerned that the food supply in Norwegian hospitals should not be weakened for economic reasons, and asked the Minister of Health to direct the regional enterprises so that economic efficiency measures or reorganization would not weaken the food supply. The notification was followed up with a national consultant with quality requirements for food establishments. The size decision shall be followed up. It is the responsibility of the government to do so at all times, unless changes in policy are notified, and the government has not. I feel that this is still the same broad agreement on St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009 A happy event. But there have recently been several issues in the media about midwives who are concerned about the situation at the food clinics, especially in our big cities. Patient treatment, patient safety and the working environment are at work in the large maternity wards due to low basic staffing. Several women have experienced being sent home after the birth has started. It shouldn't be like that. Just as the interpellant points out, full hospitals and misunderstandings in the maternity ward do not make a good contribution to the birthplace in terms of the safety and care they need in a very vulnerable and important situation. Economics shall not outweigh the medical assessments in the maternity wards and hospitals have received several hidden efficiency requirements with this government. Nor has the government strengthened the economy of hospitals, as they promised before the elections. It may be critical for mother and children, and the Minister of Health will have to take responsibility for and follow up on regional enterprises. Then I hear that the Minister of Health has followed up, and that there have been reports back on a number of measures, especially at the main hospitals. Unfortunately, Oslo was not on the list the Council of State gave in its reply, and we expect that from the Labour Party to be followed up. When an overall increase in the treatment of the Storing Message A happy event pointed out just that the financial measures and the efficiency measures and the reorganisation should not weaken food supply, we all know that there are contexts here that it is difficult to manage today in the hospital situation. That being said, the interpellant's party, Left, had an even smaller hospital budget in its alternative budget both last year and last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2159	Good maternity care, with close follow-up during childbirth and a safe supply of food, is essential to ensure a good start in life. The security of knowing that one will be well received at a birth institution on the day of birth will undoubtedly contribute to ensuring both mastering and well-being along the way in pregnancy, during birth and afterbirth. It is therefore positive that the interpellant chooses to focus on the provision of food in large cities as well. From before it is well known that large travel distances, with crossing of fjords, mountain crossings and often poor driving conditions up to the nearest hospital, can be challenging and demanding for many born out in District Norway. We hear about births that happen in cars and on ferries en route to the nearest hospital. Fortunately, reference can now be made to the fact that the number of transport births is somewhat reduced. At the same time, I believe that the proportion of people living in hospitals is still greater. In such cases, the established midwives accompanying the midwife could provide the necessary safety and assistance during transport. We can show good results in birth care in Norway. Child and mother mortality is actually among the lowest in the world. That doesn't mean we can borrow back. We must continue to work to ensure that the natives and their families get a good and safe birth experience, no matter where in the country they live. The government's goal is to create the patient's healthcare. It also includes high quality maternity care and good patient safety. The national quality requirements for maternity care, set out in the 2009 General Health Notice and in the Directorate-General for Health A safe supply of food, will guide further work, as pointed out earlier. Quality requirements state that the food departments must have anaesthetic and anaesthetic teams available on a daily basis, as well as emergency and cesarean surgery personnel. It is also recommended that all give birth to a midwife as early as possible at the active stage of birth. These are requirements which all regional health establishments are obliged to follow up through their own adopted plans for maternity care. The implementation of the regional plans must have led to an increase in the staffing of many health establishments in the clinics and in the food departments. Interpellant refers to the challenges of full hospitals in the big cities, that birthing can be rejected, and that non-Norwegian or non-Norwegian birth and maternity care can experience linguistic misunderstandings in the nursery. We know that the number of births can vary considerably from day to day throughout the year, which may make it difficult for food institutions to plan. It is therefore important that health professionals develop staff planning systems that can help to manage areas with large fluctuations in activity and patient coatings, including in maternity care. It is also important to provide good information that births are also covered by the free treatment system, which means that birthers can choose their place of birth well before birth. I noticed that the Minister of Health in his reply to the interpellant referred to an established cooperation between the food institutions in and around Oslo, which can relieve each other if necessary. That's what I think is positive, and I hope it's used industriously. I also noticed that several food establishments need to have a low threshold to accept natives if there are language or communication problems. Not least it was interesting to hear about the women's clinic in Bergen and the offer Rede. It sounds both lukewarm, safe and pleasant, with a ‘red’ where pregnant women who are unsure about their birth may come to the conclusion of a conversation and assessment. As I understood it, the same offer is given to pregnant women with language problems. National health and hospital plan states that no hospital should be seaworthy. They shall cooperate and learn from each other. As the Minister of Health also pointed out, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the women’s clinic in Bergen has a lot to learn from good and safe maternity care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2178	I, and also the Advancement Party, very much agree with the interpellant that birth care is one of the many health services that play a key role, and that it is very important to have a good offer to ensure people's sense of security. When you look at the list of speakers, you see that there are a lot of women involved in this case, and that might not be so strange. But I also think that the man, who is often with the woman who is going to give birth, may well be so frustrated and insecure. The importance and the security of being accepted in a good way may well be so great for them, because you're going to try to take care of the one you're carrying. In addition, you may encounter rejection and have to travel elsewhere. That's why it's incredibly important to be received in a proper and good way when you arrive. I also think it is very good that the interpellant addresses some of the challenges surrounding the major hospitals. Often this is about smaller hospitals and ensuring good services in the districts. It is very much agreed that it is important to ensure good food provision in the districts as well. However, some of the issues that have emerged today are also important. I don't think so many people have thought that being rejected or being born on their way to the hospital might be such a big problem in the urban areas and in the big cities. It is important to say that a major problem is relative, but for those involved, it will at least feel like a big problem. And 185 that have been rejected are very many. I am pleased that the Council of State is very clear that he is following this closely with the health companies when he meets with them, because this is a problem that he is concerned about, and it is important to ensure that the cooperation between hospitals that are nearby is also good. That was what the Council of State said when he showed both to Bergen and that there was also good cooperation in the Oslo and Akershus regions. It's very important. I think the project at Bærum Hospital to get better communication where there are language problems is very important. I hope it will show good results, and that it can be a good example of how to work in the future. I would like to point out that there have already been a number of issues in which the Committee has had a majority of comments with the Left, and which are just dealing with this area, both with regional health companies and with plans adopted for maternity care in the context of the requirements of the Health Directorate, and that this has led many health businesses to increase the number of women's clinics and maternity wards. That's very good. The majority have also recalled the good results of maternity care in Norway, and that the Left and Christian People's Party in three budgets has facilitated a higher rate of growth in patient treatment than that adopted by the Red-Green Government through eight budgets. There are even more good examples of taking this seriously in the health and care committee in the past, and that these are things that have been very focused on. I also think it is important to point out that the interpellant has brought up a very important area today. It is not least about safety, it is important to be safe when in an uncertain situation. Especially maybe the first time you give birth, I think most people are very insecure and insecure. Then it's important to be met in a good and nice way. I also believe that most people experience, fortunately, that they are accepted – and accepted immediately – and that they address all the questions that you might have when you get to a food clinic. That's why I'm very pleased with the interpellation. It is important that this is followed up further. I feel that the Council of State has already provided good explanations on what to do, and I hope that this will continue to be followed up, both by the Council of State and by health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2200	First, I would like to extend a big thank you to the interpellant, Trine Skei Grande, for putting this topic on the agenda. The beginning of life, from mother's stomach to birth, is of great importance to both mother and child. A safe maternity health we provide the basis for a better mother’s health after birth – and a better basis for the child. As the Council of State had in mind, our maternity, maternity and maternity care are very good. But we can get better. It goes towards summer and holiday settlement in hospitals and thus also in the maternity and maternity wards. Many midwives actually grunt at this summer settlement, because there aren't enough people at work. Our midwives, who do a great job, have many births to take responsibility for, with births at the same time. They must have knowledge of different cultures and languages, which others have also learned, and this is very important for the birthing to be understood and understand what is being said. Some people and ground crews are so important. The birthing must be just as well cared for throughout the year. So the challenges are great when it comes to enough staff of midwives, and the capacity of the departments, i.e. the number of beds, needs to be strengthened. We also have other challenges in maternity care. We see that hospitals print out the birthmarks much earlier than before – they are sent home early, and the municipalities take over. The location of a maternity ward today is approx. one day for multiple births and one and a half days to two days for first births. It is not unusual for newly-baked mothers to go home until they are ready and as well-prescribed as one wishes. Many of the women today have to return to the hospital with their children the third day for weighing, beeping, follow-up of yellow fever and hearing check. This conflicts with mother and children's need for sleep and tranquillity until they become acquainted with each other. This is equally true either in a cage in a city, in the vicinity of a city or in a municipality. In 2022 a new mother-and-child hospital should be completed in Bergen, but there should be no maternity facilities for healthy women and children. That means that women are going home six to eight hours after birth. Law on municipal health and care services obliges municipalities and regional health care agencies to conclude cooperation agreements, and through service agreements on, among others. maternity and maternity care must comply with the Health Directorate’s guidelines on home care, provision of maternity care or a midwife’s centre one to two days after returning from the hospital. According to the guidelines, the midwives shall be responsible for their mother and children during the first five to seven days. This is a big challenge today, and it doesn't get any smaller in the future. So it's the way the child comes when it comes. Well -- then there are some births planned, but there are not many. The birthing must therefore know that when they need midwives and midwives, they must have it. Every year there are many women who give birth during transport to hospitals, but there are others who give birth shortly after they arrive at the hospital, and experience the situation very insecure. Therefore, it is possible to try out several models for what is best for the wholeness of the service, for example. the same midwife may follow up both before and after birth. Another model is that midwives work both in hospitals and in municipalities. Most importantly, health professionals and municipalities, both urban and rural, become equivalent parties when entering into these agreements. Had we had a related maternity, maternity and maternity care, it had become a very important event. It is only in the way that we can achieve interaction, an interaction that will benefit the unborn, the child and the whole family.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2217	I would like to thank the interpellant for putting the search light on the offer of the birthing city mothers. It was the same concern that was the basis of the Central Party's proposal for a representative, which was discussed in this Chamber in winter, when we put forward proposals to strengthen the quality and capacity of the women's clinics and to introduce framework funding for supply. The proposal was defeated by the Left and Government Parties. In 2010, there were quality requirements for the different food supply, and for women’s clinics, all births at the active stage of birth should have midwifes with them, and there should be crews ensuring defensive monitoring and treatment. I think we know enough to believe that these quality requirements are broken every day out there. If the corresponding quality requirements were broken systematically in the small food departments, they would have been closed in the day. In the evening post of 16 July 2015, it was said that there was a burst of capacity at all the food departments in Stor-Oslo, including Aarhus and Bærum, and that the unborn had to argue to a birthplace. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 21 September last year, midwives at the Women’s Clinic at Haukeland Hospital warned against an irresponsible offer at the Women’s Clinic because of tight budgets and closed birth dust during the weekends. It went so far that the leader of the League of Landlords in Hordaland warned birthers against giving birth during the weekends. In the evening post on 17 July last year, it was about a survey that the League of Midwives had done among its members. It was a pretty serious information that came out of there. Half of the midwives experience that they are not allowed to watch the pregnant women adequately. One in four midwives says that they have to reject women who are in active birth from the maternity ward, and that there are rarely enough midwives to follow up single-parents. Poor and poor maternity care also leads to poor maternity care, as health care professionals give little priority to the provision of food, and it may be worst in terms of maternity provision. I hear it is said in the debate that one has much to learn from the Women’s Clinic in Bergen – about the talk mentioned. It is probably a very good offer, but it also has to be said in this room, when shown so much to the Women's Clinic in Bergen, that in those days the county doctor in Hordaland keeps on with a supervision case that has been created just against the Women's Clinic after concerns from those added due to the pressure of the crew situation – if there can be a defensive offer. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 24 May this year it is said that the Women's Clinic will now terminate the scheme of midwifery in the whole of summer due to the budgetary situation, without any need to strengthen the provision of childbirth accordingly. I'm very concerned about this. The food supply that we are discussing depends on the fact that it is a good and adequate economy. The food supply is not well-funded, it's 50 pst. Intermediary financed. We have proposed that framework funding should be provided and that it is illogical for a birth to be activity-based funded. The serious thing is that in today's funding system, complications are premiered, while securing good midwifery skills gets zero extra dollars. I have one example: if a woman bleeds 500 ml in connection with a birth, the maternity ward – due to the DRG coding system – receives an extra NOK 5000. This is a system that needs to be changed. We have made suggestions on this, but we haven't got multiples for it yet. If transport births I just have to say that what is said about women's not being rejected, and that this is only because of the rapid births, is not a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2243	Thank you to my party colleague Trine Skei Grande for promoting this interpellation. It is important that we also dare to discuss challenges relating to the major cities, and not just address challenges related to the districts. At this time a year ago, I had the pleasure of visiting Lillehammer Hospital. There I was greeted for the first time by vibrations and saw what challenges parental killings face when they become a family of five. New-born intensive care is an important part of childbirth care for those facing challenges early in life. They are often known in pregnancy too, but the organisation of these departments is important. At Lillehammer, they have small resources to organise a neonatal intensive care unit where all parents get single rooms and can live with the child. They have ten beds, they all have acute functions on the same floor and can provide full respiratory support with the parents present from day one. This testifies to a hospital with a children’s and family clinic that has done some important organisational work with small funds. The drama hospital is another example that is often drawn out and that has received some state support to do something similar. The mountain has been drawn here as a good example, but unfortunately it is in Oslo that there are challenges with premises and capacity. Free hospital choice is mentioned as an opportunity, but even if Lillehammer has a capacity, it becomes a bit far for birthers in Oslo to travel to Lillehammer to get a good offer, even if the opportunity exists. The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol was concerned that Left has a hospital budget with less growth than the other parties. That's right, we've given more priority to prevention, early response and public health. But it is worth remembering that the previous government established Health South-East and merged all the hospitals in Oslo. We're struggling with that, and there's a nightmare in several areas how we're going to build ourselves out of the challenges we're facing in the Oslo area, with the population growth we have, and a building mass that is per day spread around 47 different addresses just in Oslo. There are many old buildings and many unsuitable premises. It's a big challenge. There are suggestions on the table to get premises to go, but I see that it's a long time before you realize those plans. As the Council of State was in, it is important to play in the environments you have in the Oslofjord area. But we also see that at the newly built hospital in Østfold, the bedtime is four hours. It says something about the fact that neither capacity nor quality can be optimal when the municipality is perhaps not so well prepared that the bedtime is so short. For midwives and health sisters to follow-up, it is clear that this is a significant challenge. With regard to the debate on funding that the Central Party is travelling, we are far from sharing some of the views, but there are many tasks in the hospital policy ahead. We're going to build more, that's one thing, but we're also going to control differently. How we're going to run is the important theme of the next year. Before we do something rash and big about the funding system, we need to find a new way in the hospital policy and don't take it a little longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2258	Thanks to the interpellant for taking up a very important topic. There are few times in life the thread between life and death is as thin as when someone is born. It is extremely important that the one who gives birth, the one who is born, and the family, be taken care of well. Everyone has said that. I posted on a blog that some younger girls write. There writes one of the mothers who has been born in Oslo last year, that in the nine months she went pregnant, Google became her best friend. She starts by describing a maternity care that does not have enough time for those who are pregnant and who do not respond. Then she continues to describe that she has gained insight into a system of insufficient resources and too large a deficit, which is also confirmed by all the stories that the interpellant and several others are up here and telling, that many people are not allowed to enter hospitals until the child is almost out. I hear the council says it's not like that, and maybe it's not because they've been rejected. I don't know, but I know a little too many people who say they've experienced it. And sail if that's many years ago, I can confirm that lying with woes in the car in long transport is no pleasure. Being able to get to the hospital when you're about to give birth, instead of being rejected and hearing that no, wait a bit, because we don't have the capacity to do this, is in a very contrast to what the council describes when he mentions what they call Speech at the Women's Clinic in Bergen. Because that's the way it should be that you could get there and let go of the transports when you're born. I want to ask the Council of State to take a closer look at this, because I think that a while ago we have in a way tapped the capacity we should have in this area, in order to ensure that those who are born are allowed to come to the hospital and are allowed to be there while this is going on. It can take a long time for quite a lot of people, and it can be a huge impact in itself if you experience that you are not being cared for, and maybe not getting help. It's quite possible to be afraid when you're born. That is why I am asking for this. I would also like to mention, as the representative Kjersti Toppe pointed out, that it was not until two days ago in the Official Journal of Bergen that there was a closure of the midwife's offer in Bergen. The serious thing about this is that they also describe at the same time that they are not going to increase the capacity of the hospital. At the same time, we know that many more births in the summer, so this doesn't work out. It must mean that more people come into the situation described by the interpellant, that they are rejected, that they are not coming in, that more people are going to be born, either on their way to the hospital or when they have just entered the hospital. It's not an optimal situation that happens right after you get in. This is also about the maternity period, which has been discussed by many, that it is becoming very short for a very large number, and that it is planned to be shorter and shorter. Then you are totally dependent on having a home-earth mother's offer, as Bergen has, and as they just say they can't do this summer. This is a combination of driving and improving the efficiency of births – they have to be carried out quickly and efficiently, and then they are out again – and at the same time, they do not have the capacity to visit those who are in childbirth at home. One of the themes that the interpellant raised, and where I think she has a very good point, is that the selection that takes place in the smaller hospitals, which don't have large food departments, is good -- they manage to select those who need better follow-up, and then they get it -- and that in central strokes, where there's a short way to a large food department, it doesn't carry out that selection well enough, so that there you can accept those who need it, in a better way than what is done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2275	I would like to thank you for the debate and for very many good contributions – there are many I agree with. When the representative Toppe points out that she doesn't entirely believe in the numbers for rejection, I think I fully agree. It's a question of what kind of rejection this has been. If it has been in the door when you show up, it is assumed that this is logged, but it is not certain that a phone to a midwife who says you should wait a little longer, and a new call and again wait a little longer, and a new call and even more waiting, will be logged into these graphs that the health minister gets. But there's a lot of feedback to me as a populist from Oslo that that's exactly what people are experiencing. I want to say to the representative Hoksrud about the participation of men: what I learned when I was working on this interpellation was that when it comes to not reaching out, it might be men who have the most traumatic experiences, and who are actually struggling with it, because one has such a huge responsibility – suddenly – as a father, which one does not feel prepared for, and it is actually a quite traumatic experience for very many fathers. There are many who experience short bedtime after birth, but I just have to say that having a template for what is ideal in that area, I'm not for. It is clear that if you are the first-born person from a very equal home, it can occasionally be good and comfortable and easy to come home. Is a mother of six in a not very equal home, it's coming home early a nightmare. This is very different from person to person, and we also have to take it with us. So I think maybe the birthplace care in the big cities could learn something from the small hospitals in terms of selection, and finding out who the challenges are. But I want to spend the last time telling the Council, which thinks that all numbers are relative. Then I'm going to give some non-relative numbers. The numbers I provided are from a Lancet report that says something about mortality during the last few weeks of a pregnancy. If you count from the 28th week of pregnancy, in Norway in 2013 there are 2.3 children who die, per 1 000, while it has increased to 2.8 per 1 000 in 2014. In the Netherlands, there are 1.8 per 1000. There are actually very big differences in the actual numbers, not in the relative numbers, and I think it's a serious thing that we have to take over, because there's none of the children we can really lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2288	I thank you for a good discussion. I perceive that there is a broad consensus on what are the main challenges and the basis further on. It is in this area that there will always be a need for more knowledge. A factor that can contribute to this is, among other things, developing electronic health cards for pregnant women, which will provide us with a better basis for research, including: related to the ratio of the interpellant in the case of stillbirth during pregnancy. With regard to the capital area in particular, there is no doubt that one here has capacity-related challenges. It's now being worked on, and we don't want to spend too much time clarifying what is going to be the development of hospital services in Oslo and in the metropolitan area. I believe that a main solution here is that hospitals, like many other areas, learn better from each other. This is about – as I was in it – that many of the larger hospitals probably also have a lot to learn from the smaller ones. But then I want to be very clear that the solution is not in the past. If we go back in time, when one had more places to feed on, longer lay time and, to the extent that framework funding – as the representative Toppe pointed out – the quality of Norwegian maternity care was lower than today, i.e. the quality of the development has been improved. I'm not saying that because we're not going to deal with what's today's challenges, but I want to be very clear to those who want to point back – or turn around – to look at what it was like before, and who think it would be a better offer, that the answer to it is no. We know that the offer, the quality and the results are better now than before – the time that one could feed in a lot more places, the time one lay much longer in childbirth, and the time that one had framework funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2299	So the debate is on case No. Three o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2313	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2320	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in dealing with this matter. The representatives of Bollestad and Toppe promote in this matter a proposal for the Grand Government to set up a wide-ranging sample to prepare a proposal for a national alcohol policy strategy, in order to ensure that Norway reaches the agreed target of at least 10 pst. reduction in harmful alcohol consumption by 2025. They want to make the choices and choices of alcohol policy more visible in order to achieve the policy objectives of reducing consumption and limiting harm. A Joint Committee recognises that alcohol is a risk factor for lifestyle diseases and can lead to premature death, as well as that alcohol consumption also has other adverse effects such as insecurity, harm and social stress. The Committee agrees that it is in the interests of society to limit consumption and that there is a link between the total consumption of alcoholic beverages and the extent of harm caused by their use. Alcohol is indisputably the most commonly used drug. Therefore, it is important that we have an ongoing debate on the adverse effects. Alcohol use has a negative impact on public health. Excessive alcohol consumption affects the health status of both individuals and the general population. The entire Committee agrees that Norway has joined the World Health Organisation target of a reduction of at least 10 pst. in harmful use by 2025. However, a large majority of the Committee does not support the proposal for a representative to draw up a national alcohol strategy. That doesn't mean that the majority is against a comprehensive alcohol policy. This is more likely to indicate that a number of measures have already been taken that you will see working together. The most important thing we can do is to pursue a predictable alcohol policy where the main lines are fixed. This will also achieve the widest possible support in the population. If the majority of the population loses faith in a strict alcohol policy, then the upsurge of it will fall. This means that strange schemes such as the Vinmonopoly, a high tax regime, advertising bans and opening time restrictions could be challenged. These instruments have had a good effect. Norway has low consumption in the European context, and the trend is that consumption among young people is falling. Therefore, it will also be important in the future to have these means to provide for a limited consumption of alcohol. Although minor adjustments are made in some instruments, the core is solid and contributes to limiting alcohol use. The size has dealt with several government communications aimed at improving public health and reducing the damage and disadvantages caused by alcohol use. Both the public health communication and the drug escalation plan contain new measures to be taken in the future to achieve the alcohol policy objectives. As examples of measures to contribute to the reduction of alcohol use, both an overall committee and the Council of State in their letter to the Committee are moving forward to strengthen the working life of the drug-prevention arena to enter the central arenas in order to prevent adverse drug use, for example: on pregnancy control and after accidents and violence, development work to establish a programme for public health work in municipalities with a focus on mental health and drug prevention and to establish indicators to follow the development of the objective of reducing premature death due to non-infectious diseases. The aim and expectations are that the existing instruments and the new measures together contribute to the rational and limited use of alcohol. At the same time, I want to add that enough alcohol has come to stay. Everyone here in this room wants the best possible public health and realizes that it is important to limit the use of alcohol in the population. This is closely linked to the rest of the public health policy. We also agree to work to achieve the goal of at least 10 pst. reducing the harmful consumption of alcohol by 2025. The majority of the Committee, however, dispute the need for an additional sample, this time in order to develop a strategy to achieve this objective. In general, we in the Health Committee should carefully assess the situation before ordering new strategies, action plans, investigations or samples. As Arild Aspøy points out in the Evening Post on 21 May this year: in the first two sessions of the current period, there have been almost five times as many request decisions compared to the previous government. Only in the last year’s session were 192 such decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2350	The Labour Party is pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are once again lifting up the alcohol policy in the landfill. It's an important theme that may not have been lifted well enough in the past. The working party also said clearly when we dealt with the Ruplan, that the relationship between alcohol and health should have a much larger place. Alcohol is the drug that poses the greatest health challenges. It is legally and often linked to social relationships that are perceived as positive for many, but also as a challenge for a large minority who face challenges with their alcohol consumption. Alcohol not only represents a health risk but creates a demanding growth for over 70,000 children who grow up with parents who are struggling with alcohol problems. A high proportion of acute health damage, accidents and youth violence are caused by direct or indirect alcohol. The Labour Party agrees with the Christian People's Party and the Centre on a lot in terms of the need for a more offensive alcohol policy, but we disagree on whether a national alcohol policy strategy is the most appropriate tool. If we are to succeed in reducing the harm caused by uncontrolled alcohol consumption, we believe it is important to see the different drug challenges in context, and that alcohol becomes an essential part of the future overall drug plan of the Storting. The working party places particular emphasis on research showing that alcohol is the main source of illicit drugs and that most drug addicts have a polydrug use. We therefore believe that an overall approach to the prevention, treatment and after-care of various forms of drug dependence is important. This also applies to the misuse of legal medicinal products, which, in our opinion, receive far too little attention. We have also learned that action plans often have their limitations by not being able to see the whole, and are not becoming a good tool for politicians who both locally and nationally want to take action, both with prevention and with the development of comprehensive treatment provision and aftercare. The working party believes it is more appropriate to strengthen the place of alcohol in the Ruplan rather than to split the field up. The working party has proposed to strengthen the role of decision-makers in preventing health damage caused by alcohol. Alcohol is still taboo, and especially for many women, it is related to shame. There are still many prejudices among decision-makers about the use of knowledge-based screening methodologies, and the decision-makers lack knowledge of treatment options and correlation between alcohol and the incidence of various somatic and psychiatric health problems. We believe it is necessary to develop up-to-date guides to determine how to get the good talk on such a vulnerable topic. Early intervention is an effective prevention of drug problems and dependence. We also call for more research into the relationship between alcohol and health. Working life is an important venue for drug prevention. We are committed to strengthening the Akan work and the work of the parties. We have also called for a better knowledge base for local politicians in particular, so that they can take the right action and have the opportunity to see what works. During the consultation, Actis showed the World Health Organisation’s measuring indicators that have been used in several countries. We challenge the government to develop measurement indicators based on those used by the World Health Organisation, often supplemented by indicators that we are particularly concerned with in Norwegian health policy. In this way, we can see developments between the different countries and, not least, both local and national politicians can know which actions should be taken and whether they have an impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2365	The main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy are established. It is stipulated in the cooperation agreement between the government parties and the supporting parties Left and Christian People's Party. Nevertheless, it is not so rare that there are different perceptions when it comes to problems of alcohol treatment in this room. So even though we agree on the main lines, the Christian People's Party believes that we now need to develop a national alcohol strategy, and so does the Center Party. I think we've already done that, and in addition, we've gone a little bit further, because we're actually doing something about it. We have a number of large-scale messages, including: The communication of public health and the action plan for the drugs field, outlined measures we believe can contribute to an open, reflective and informative approach. We know that alcohol is a direct and indirect cause of both sickness and death. We know that alcohol consumption is increasing among women and older people. We know that children and young people suffer in homes where one or both parents have a high alcohol consumption. So why don't we all agree that alcohol is the devil's mouthwater and brings both death and destruction? Well, because we see that most people are able to handle alcohol in a sensible way, even though more people have gone into continental drinking habits. We know that the Norwegians like to enjoy a glass of good wine for a good meal, and we know that the payroll can be important for both togetherness, companionship and a good working environment. It is tempting to quote the English journalist Gilbert Keith Chesterton, who lived from 1874 to 1936. He said, "Go to the glass with your joy, but not to the bottle of your grief." Because it's a little about the fact that the traditional Norwegian holy stuff has changed. There is more focus on quality than quantity, and this is due to, among other things, Nordic changing travel habits, wider nightlife offers and wider product range, to mention something. It is important to remember that alcohol is a legal product in Norway and that breweries, grocery stores and the outdoor industry represent thousands of jobs. It is worth noting that figures from SIRUS show that alcohol consumption in Norway is about the same level as in 1980. It is therefore important for the authorities to find the golden middleway between availability, charges, use and restrictions. Through the escalation plan for the drug field, we will improve, strengthen and coordinate efforts. This shall happen to people at risk or in the process of developing a problem, or already having mild or moderate drug problems, and of course to those with severe drug dependence, as well as their relatives. The escalation plan provides an overview of the main challenges also for alcohol consumption and abuse, as well as short-term and long-term strategies to meet them. The escalation plan covers three priority areas: early response, treatment and after-care. Special focus is given to children and young people, relatives and working lives. Of the measures taken, I can mention: strengthening the competence of both municipalities and specialist health services; strengthening the working life of the drug prevention arena, as the representative of Stensland also mentioned; and extending prevention measures in municipalities, both in schools and in health services. We must learn to look for danger signals in young people early, take responsibility and take action, including: by intervention. We need to keep an eye on the development of deaths due to drug use, and we need a continuous update of guides and other information material when new knowledge is available. In dealing with the escalating plan for drug use at Stortinget, there was a broad consensus on its strategy, objectives and measures. It is also appropriate to mention that the plan was widely welcomed in the consultation of the Health and Welfare Committee. Then it's a little incomprehensible to me that there is now a wish for a new strategy. Finally, one should be a little careful to try to bring humor into the debate, but it ran into my mind a quote from the German priest and church reformer Martin Luther, who lived from 1483 to 1546. He said, "It's better to think about the church when you're in the beer room than to think about the beer room in the church." I'm glad there's room for both parts of my life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2389	Alcohol abuse has a high cost for individuals, society and working life. When the Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party, believes that the choices we have must be made, and what we should do in the alcohol policy to achieve what we ourselves have decided – to achieve the objective of limiting the damage, as the World Health Organization shows, and to reduce them by 10 pst. – there is a need for an overall approach to alcohol policy. I must say, I am surprised that the proposal does not receive the support of a majority, because in other areas, our country is among those who are early out or early out of mentioning prevention and making strategies to achieve a goal. I have to ask: what is so special about the alcohol field in Norway? That work will be allowed to be random, piece by piece, and divided. Arne Johannessen, who is the leader of Actis, who for many years was elected to the police, and who was a long-term lieutenant, says: ‘We already have some tools in the regulation of alcohol.’ And on the other hand, ‘The development of the harmful use of alcohol is not right, and the government is far from the 10 per cent reduction target. Without a strategy to achieve the goal, there is unfortunately little reason to believe that we will achieve it.’ The Christian People's Party believes that we should have an alcohol strategy that goes across sectors. We suggest that a sample be appointed – some have called it a super-sample – that will develop this strategy, so that we actually get what we ourselves have decided. The Norwegian Association of Nursing Nurses pointed out in its opinion that it is a little strange that Norway is making representations to the EU’s alcohol strategy, but lacks its own strategy. My father died in 1994, too early. He looked at me and said, "Life and learning must match, always, my girl." Father was right. There's something about life and learning. We're going to the European Union, we're going to show their strategy, but we don't have our own strategy. I wonder if it'll be credible. While alcohol consumption in the EU and Europe is declining, developments in our own country are going wrong. In the last 20 years, total alcohol consumption in the Nordic countries has increased by almost 50 pst. There are currently an estimated 90 000 large users of alcohol in Norway, and many more than there have other health problems as well. The extent of health damage caused by alcohol is estimated to be four times higher than for other drugs. However, the majority here chooses to say: No, a strategy that can help us achieve the goal of helping the 90 000 plus all the others, we don't want, and we don't want to work so focused on reaching the 10 percent, but most of all to help individuals and families, or to reduce social costs, to reduce the absence of work and create greater security. It's a big mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2412	Does the representative of Bollestad wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2415	I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2420	The representative then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2423	The size has joined the target of at least 10 pst. reducing the harmful use of alcohol by 2025. It is also the goal of the World Health Organization. Alcohol is today our most used drug, but it leads to great costs for those who use it, for third parties and for society. The World Health Organization says that alcohol is one of the most important causes of poor health and premature death in western countries, and in Norway it is estimated that between 50,000 and 150 000 children live with parents at risk of alcohol consumption. As rapporteurs, we refer to the objectives of the alcohol laws in the proposal for a representative, which I think is often forgotten when we have matters to deal with. The seventh objective of alcohol law is to limit the total consumption of alcohol in the population. There must be harmony between life and learning, as the representative of Bollestad said. When an aggregate increase says that it is a political goal to reduce total alcohol consumption, and we have now seen a figure of it – the harmful use should decrease by 10 pst. – I think it's reasonable that the Storting is so honest that we dare to deliver a case that shows how we're going to achieve these goals, otherwise we can be guilty of being a little trusted in this policy area. Through the wine monopoly system, alcohol taxes and advertising bans, Norway has historically faced a restrictive alcohol policy line, which means that we are seen by other countries in Europe that have had major problems in the field of alcohol policy. The background to the proposal is that over the last few years we have had many individual proposals from the government that are not so big, but which in some cases cause one to be concerned about whether they lead to the opposite of what is meant by alcohol laws. We believe that there is a need for a holistic approach in alcohol policy, as in other policy areas, including health policy, and we suggest that a wide-ranging selection be set up with a mandate to draw up a proposal for a national alcohol strategy, which will enable us to achieve our objectives. Not only the target of 10 pst. reducing harmful alcohol consumption, but also reducing lifestyle diseases, i.e. diabetes, heart and car diseases, cancer and coal, by 25 pst. by 2025. About half of EU countries today have such strategies, in addition to large countries such as Canada, Australia and New Zealand. And as the representative, Mr Bollestad, said, it is a paradox that we are involved in making representations to the EU's strategy, but we do not have a strategy at the bottom. We have mentioned in the proposal what kind of area we think measures should be taken. There are large fields in society. But I note that we are receiving surprisingly little support for the proposal. I have a few comments to make about the argument for not voting. To the Labour Party, which otherwise has been very involved with us when it comes to alcohol policy: they refer to the escalation plan for the drug field. It is in a way an argument that can be purchased, but when the Labour Party has just criticised the plan of escalation for not being clear enough on alcohol, I cannot understand how it is going to end up afterwards, after the plan has been adopted in Stortinget. It was precisely in the ears of the Ruplan that this came up with the need for a strategy. During the hearing in the committee hearing on the Ruplan, it was noted that the escalation plan was not enough. We need a holistic strategy. We have a strategy for tobacco. Why aren't we going to have a strategy for alcohol? Is there one argument for why we are going to have a strategy to reduce tobacco consumption, while we are not going to have a strategy for alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2441	In its proposal, the proposers refer, inter alia, to: countries such as Canada, Australia and New Zealand have such an alcohol strategy. It makes me curious, and it is important to listen when those countries that have among the best health systems in the world have such strategies. But they also have a different alcohol policy and far greater challenges than Norway has. The left has chosen not to join this proposal that we should develop an alcohol strategy now. As others have pointed out, one of the main arguments is that we have recently adopted a escalation plan in the field of drugs — a major one — and there is a significant effort to put in place in the next few years. We have to use the resources on all of those measures. Some of the resources we also need to spend on better systematics. I want to mention what the previous government did – praiseworthy – in public health, by giving a clearer responsibility to the municipalities, and also to the counties, which we have tightened up under today's government and today's majority. And the public health coordinators that are about to be put in place in most municipalities are important actors to coordinate their efforts. There's something different organized, someone has them in the staff under the adviser, others have them in their health settings. It is important that they are at least on the level and coordinate the field and ensure early action. The decision-makers also have an important role to play, as the representative Ruth Grung had in mind. I've been talking a lot to professionals about the alcohol challenges, and I'm going to meet certain professionals who don't have any relationship with the antbus, who think that it's outsourced and old-fashioned medicine, while I meet Russian specialists who wonder why in the world we don't encourage more kids to put it into practice. There's something to avoid creating this addiction early, and there's enough to do on the effort here. But it doesn't necessarily require a strategy, and the main lines that the four majority parties agree on are important to work with. The wine monopoly, to which many have come, is important, but is challenged by sales through the tax-free system and through purchases abroad, and also through illegal imports. The tax-free system is also important to discuss, and we do not need a strategy to discuss it. Now all the parties are going into program processes, and for the next four years it's important that more parties discuss: what are we going to do with the tax-free system in the continuation? For the advertising ban and the opening and giving times: we have recently also adopted new spectral regulations and monitoring and follow-up systems. It's also some of the systematics that are important in terms of overlap. So I'm going to swing into the charging policy, because it's an important part of this. It is with a little wonder that I see that during the last ten years the alcohol duty has almost not increased. That's where much of the big, harmful consumption lies. That's something we should definitely look at. Beer levies have risen sharply in these years. I think there's good reason to look at it, just like for tobacco and snuff, so that we put in the fees and measures where it really has an effect. Today there is not quite symmetry here, nor has it been entirely political. It is therefore an important debate over the next few years on how to put this in place with the best possible effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2456	The representative, Kjeseth, just said that we don't need to have a strategy to discuss individual elements of alcohol policy. That's what SV agrees with. But we need a strategy to discuss the whole of the alcohol policy and see how the individual elements play together, so that we can achieve an objective of reducing consumption. At least we have said that we mean that. But I have to admit, I'm in doubt that you really mean it. ‘What is so special about the alcohol field in Norway?’ asked the representative, Bollestad. I could say that quite a lot about abstinence, that there's a lot of alcohol that there's taboo to discuss, and that it's hard for many to relate to, because you see that your own consumption is never problematic, that it's part of the food, and that it's gradually eating into absolutely all the social contexts where people meet, if anything is to be called food. So there's a lot of alcohol, and there's a lot of areas it affects. I'm not going to talk about children today, sail if there could be real reason for that in terms of alcohol. But I need, among other things, mention some of the figures shown in the research. That's that 30 pst. of the total absence from work is said to be alcohol-related. 15 pst. long-term absences are. This room discusses very often whether to take a qualifying day, or what to do with the sickness pay scheme, and sick leave costs a lot. Here's one of the reasons. This is one of the major causes of sick leave. But we're almost afraid to talk about it. Akan was mentioned here. They're doing a very important job. At the same time, there are representatives who remind us that the Friday game is very pleasant and good. Yes, but it can be equally exclusive, especially for those who are struggling with alcohol problems, and who are then excluded from what should be glued in a social context, even at work, because it is always rooted in this. I have also read the 2014 Public Health Report, which estimates that hospitalisation has increased dramatically in the last 20 years due to drug-related and particularly alcohol-related conditions. It is estimated that 15 to 20 pst. of all hospitalisations are drug-related, and alcohol is the most frequent cause. Death rates of alcohol use have fallen slightly in recent years. That means it goes down a little bit-- and that's good. There are big, serious problems associated with this, and I think it's very strange that you don't want to create a strategy to see how the different elements work together, because it's obvious that there's something that's not quite good about this, when there's such a big problem with it in society. It was a representative of the Progress Party who was up and thought that the holy and stump stuff was over, and that now the northern men drank on a continental basis. I think, unfortunately, that one thing has been put on top of another, and that is one of the reasons for this. According to the statistics, alcohol consumption is now falling into the youngest age groups — it is very good — but it is increasing in the young adult population. It's serious, because it also means adding to an alcohol consumption that can over time be harmful, searing if it doesn't cause major social problems there and then. The duty-free system was mentioned here. There's every reason to discuss it. I have very often wondered why I should have the opportunity to buy alcohol or things cheaper just because I am out flying. It's kind of funny. Changes to the tax-free system have also been made. I think I just want to remind you that it is mentioned in the setting, that what we did in our government was to convert alcohol into wine. It's going to be less alcohol while what this government has done is turn tobacco into alcohol. It's going to be more alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2474	I just want to say that the last one is wrong. It's tobacco that can be converted into wine. The allowance's not for booze. What the previous government did was open up for the sale of 3 liters of wine on tax-free – which I think might have been more important. Alcohol is the most commonly used drug in Norway, thus creating the most social and health problems. However, this drug does not receive the most attention in the debate on drugs. It is important that we also talk about the problems and challenges of alcohol, both at social level, for individuals and for those who use alcohol themselves. Alcohol use is among the lifestyle factors that affect public health most in a negative direction. At population level, there is a clear link between consumption and negative effects. Increased alcohol consumption in the population is causing increased harm and disadvantages. Similarly, reduced consumption will cause fewer damage and disadvantages related to alcohol. Norway has therefore joined the World Health Organisation’s objective of a reduction of at least 10 pst. in harmful use by 2025. I do not support the proposal for a representative to develop a specific alcohol strategy, but I believe that the proposal makes it clear in a good way that we need a good and comprehensive alcohol policy. I think we have it in Norway. To achieve the objective of reducing harmful alcohol use, we also need to look at new measures. However, the most important thing is to continue the main lines of today’s alcohol policy. Norwegian alcohol policy is largely based on population-oriented measures, in particular regulatory measures to limit accessibility. The most important are the Vinmonopol scheme, sales and donations, age limits and opening hours. We have also used other types of measures to reduce the demand for alcohol. This applies in particular to charges and not least to the ban on advertising. The products we have used have a good effect. Norway has low consumption in the European context, and the trend is that consumption among young people is falling. The regulatory instruments we have already used will continue to be important to ensure a limited consumption of alcoholic beverages. Although minor adjustments are made in some instruments, the core is solid and contributes to limiting alcohol use. The government has promoted several communications to the Storting to help improve public health and reduce the damage and disadvantages caused by alcohol use. Both the public health notification and the escalation plan for the drug field, which has been dealt with by the Storting, contain new measures to be taken in the future to achieve the objectives of alcohol use. Examples of new approaches to reducing alcohol use are: to strengthen working life as a drug-preventing arena to establish a programme for public health work in municipalities with a focus on mental health and drug prevention to enter the central arenas in order to prevent adverse drug use, e.g. on pregnancy control and after violence and accidents The aim and expectations are that the existing instruments and the new measures together contribute to the rational and limited use of alcohol. We will make our own indicators so that we can follow developments in achieving the objective of reducing premature deaths due to non-infectious diseases. We all agree that it is important to ensure good public health. We agree to pursue a public health policy that gives the whole population many years of life with good health and well-being. We agree that it is important to limit the use of alcoholic beverages in the population. We agree to work to achieve the goal of 10 pst. reducing the harmful consumption of alcohol by 2025. What we do not agree on, on the other hand, is whether there is a need for a new sample to explore a strategy to achieve this goal. I cannot see that such a strategy will add to what we have already identified and planned for the future of existing and new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2514	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2517	The role of decision-making is changing — from being the one that may have defined the health challenge alone, through dialogue and user involvement, to reaching a common understanding of the health challenge — to perhaps what is needed now, which is to dry up the vulnerable and difficult issues. To this end, we have received feedback that new knowledge is available on both methodology, guidance and treatment provision, as well as on the relationship between alcohol, somatics and psychiatry. The question for the Minister of Health is: how will he ensure that the decision-makers and other health professionals are given new knowledge of the relationship between alcohol, somatics and psychiatry, as well as of treatment options and methodological tools?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2526	The definition role is important and is also covered by one of the measures contained in the primary health communication through the proposal to establish primary health teams and to ensure that decision-makers are given a clearer population responsibility for public health. With regard to the effect of taking up alcohol consumption in regular consultations, there may be slightly different assessments of it from the research community. It is important that the actions we are taking are knowledge-based and that we put resources in place properly. However, it is clear that it is important to contribute to a good understanding of the relationship between alcohol use and health issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2533	I understand the Minister of Health so that he will follow up on the new knowledge that has now emerged in this area. The second question is probably not surprising, but in my article I addressed this with the World Health Organization, which has developed measurement indicators that Actis indicates that several countries have implemented. It should be in Norway’s interest to have measurement indicators, so that we can get together with other countries and develop our own in addition to the areas we want to follow up in particular. The question is: Will the Minister of Health take the initiative to develop measurement indicators according to the model of the World Health Organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2542	The Institute for Public Health is responsible for developing this type of measurement in Norway and for assessing which measuring instruments are to be used. The Institute for Public Health is closely involved in the work of the World Health Organisation. I think it is important that the professional body that we have now strengthened, which is to provide us with a knowledge base in healthcare, is what makes the assessment of which measurement parameters are to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2547	The question in this case is whether or not a strategy is needed in the field of alcohol. I feel that the Councils and representatives argue that we have so many good and broad measures that it is unnecessary. I said in my post that we have a strategy on tobacco, and after a quick search on the government's sides, I see that there are a lot of government strategies: a waste strategy, a computer strategy, an EEA strategy, a R & D strategy in the Ministry of Transport, a strategy for housing – it's different than health, but still. What is the reason why the Council of State thinks that just on alcohol we don't need an overarching strategy for work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2556	It is because I believe that this strategy is already in the public health report and the escalating plan for the drug field. There, the Storting has joined in the direction and objectives and the means of prioritisation in the years to come. That is why I am concerned that instead of spending time, money and resources on a sample, we are using resources to implement the strategy in the field of alcohol that is in line with what is in public health communication and in the escalation plan for the drug field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2561	I am concerned about the 10 pst target in the area of alcohol to which an aggregate landfill has joined. reduction in the harmful use of alcohol is achieved. That is the background to the proposal. I am in doubt that Norway will achieve the objective of the measures adopted. Can the government explain how the adopted changes to e.g. alcohol laws shall contribute to 10 pst. reduction? And does the Council of State see the need to bring forward any new measures if the Council of State sees developments going in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2567	The starting point is that Norway, in terms of the most effective regulatory measures available, is likely to be the country, at least in Europe other than Sweden, which has implemented the most systematic, and with the most forceful. So for Norway, it's going to be going on and looking for other ways to work to reinforce this. We have a positive trend in total alcohol consumption since 2008. Young people start using alcohol later, and they drink less. We have a challenge that is probably a result of gender equality, that women drink more, and at the same time that we live longer and the pensioners drink more. But we have to go into a new arena, which I've been in on – working life, public health work in the municipality – as well as the other measures I was in on, to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2572	It appeared during the hearing that Norway is contributing towards its EU alcohol strategy without having a strategy to draw it from. But I would like to hear what the Council of State and the Government are contributing towards the EU’s alcohol strategy. It is great that we are contributing, but what concrete contribution is Norway making towards the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2577	Among other things, some of the EEA funds used in the EU are used for public health measures in a number of countries. However, Norway is also participating in the EU in the formal EU ministerial meetings and is working to keep alcohol and the work on the alcohol strategy high on the health policy agenda, together with, in particular, our colleagues in Sweden. What is now a priority area is to work for understanding the importance of getting content labelling on alcohol, which will be a good tool if we are able to get the EU to introduce it. Then I do not agree that Norway does not have a strategy. Based on the EU’s alcohol strategy, what we have presented, in combination with the public health communication and the action plan for the drugs field, would be considered as a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2584	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2589	Thank you for an interesting debate, which basically reflects what appears in the various remarks in the vote. There are a few things I want to comment on. First of all, it is possible to create the impression that parts of the committee do not take seriously the challenge that alcohol is and can be. I will strongly reject that. We just disagree a little bit about the need for a strategy, as I explained in my main post. Then there are also a number of measures in place. I believe that the Minister of Health has made an excellent account of this. So it doesn't have to be left with an idea that nothing's going to happen. The main reason why I took the word is because there is a problem in the setting that has appeared. In a comitology note on page 3 of the configuration, at the top of the right column, there is an outline of the various measures mentioned as examples. In the letters of the Council of State this is quite correct, but in the last indent of the setting it says: ‘Fix indicators to follow the development of the target of reducing premature death due to infectious diseases’. Of course, it should be ‘due to non-infectious diseases’, which is what we are talking about today, strictly speaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2605	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2619	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2626	As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that there is cross-political support for the content of this proposition; that the right to the free choice of the rehabilitation site should include private and non-profit rehabilitation institutions that have agreements with regional health establishments. It is entirely in line with the proposal put forward by the Stoltenberg II Government in Prop. 118 L for 2012–2013 in the spring of 2013. On the basis of this proposition, the Directorate-General for Health was commissioned in April of the same year to explore possible solutions for the free choice of training and rehabilitation in the specialist health service. The Directorate was asked to describe various professional issues and to address legal, organisational and economic consequences. Follow-up missions were given in August 2013, and responses to this mission were received in April of the following year. That's what's now at the root of the grips you're taking in this proposition. It is an explicit objective that the right to free choice of the site of rehabilitation should contribute to the better use of the total capacity of these key services, and also to reduced waiting times — actually reduced waiting times. At the same time, we are aware of the fact that several health businesses have largely practised free rehabilitating options for a longer period of time. Therefore, a legislative change in this field is largely in line with both applied practice and with the views expressed by most hearing bodies. We have noted with interest that the proposition does not imply that private rehabilitation institutions should be approved under Regulation No. 1232 of 29 October 2015 on the freedom of private undertakings to provide specialist health services in return for payment by the State, and thus not being able to participate in the free choice of the place of rehabilitation, but to allow such institutions to be phased in later. Nor shall x-ray and laboratory services be subject to the new rules on free choice of treatment, but according to the applicable law will have a basis in operators who have an agreement with the public. We are pleased that today's government with this proposition is following up the initiative of the red-green government. There are various reasons why the Workers' Party has considered that free rehabilitation options had to be investigated before the experiment was presented, as was the case during the previous government period. Among other things, it is important for us that the free choice of the place of rehabilitation is an indispensable prerequisite for the existence of good institutions throughout the country, if freedom of choice is to be real to all. In the previous debate on whether rehabilitation should be part of the free-hospital choice scheme, several of them argued. Some smaller rehabilitation institutions were concerned that this could remove the basis from the decentralised provision of rehabilitation and lead to different access to rehabilitation services. Such issues are also addressed in the present proposition, so it is important to keep this in focus also in the future. This document shows with all clarity how unclear and confusing the government’s communication around the system of free choice of treatment is. ‘Free choice of hospitals’ is now referred to as ‘free choice of treatment’, which is initially entirely unproblematic. However, when, at the same time as ‘free treatment’, the government grants completely different rights to patients than ‘free hospital choice’, this becomes both erroneous and misleading. Regulation No. 1232 of 29 October 2015 defines the new civilly-initiated ‘free choice of treatment’ scheme. And it is – as previously noted – only designed to grant rights to the private actors who are alleged to be able to treat patients on public account and who do not have an agreement with a health company. The patient's right to choose is, in fact, the same as before. The content of the proposal we are dealing with today may indicate that the government has noted that ‘free treatment choice’ under Regulation 1232 has not worked so far, and that therefore ‘free treatment choice’ — without any regulation — has been chosen for rehabilitation, x-ray and laboratory services. We think it's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2641	Today, the Stortinget adopts a change in the patient and user rights law that was first proposed by the Right in 2012. Maybe you just have to assume that it takes four years to get a majority of good proposals here in Stortinget – or is it about this being one of several examples that the red-greens in Norwegian politics are like a heavy cling to the foot when it comes to putting the patient's rights first? Today, it is gratifying that the entire Committee recommends to the Stortinge to decide that patients in need of rehabilitation should be able to choose freely between public and private institutions with agreement and that the change also implies that rehabilitation can be phased into the new authorisation system for free treatment choices. Today is a victory for patients and for all patients who today do not have the freedom to choose for themselves where to get their rehabilitation. Until now, patients have been able to choose rehabilitation in various public hospitals, but they have not had the right to choose freely from private rehabilitation institutions. From now on, we're changing it. Now we make sure that all patients get this right, no matter where they live in the country. In the right, we well remember the patient history from 2011 and 2012, when MS patients in Health Nord were deprived of the possibility of rehabilitation in health regions other than their own. This meant that they could no longer recover the costs of rehabilitation at the MS-Center in Hakadal. Being able to be rehabilitated by those institutions that specialize in diseases such as MS means a lot to patients, not only medically, but also by meeting peers in the same situation across the country. It allows to link links that can be invaluable for those who live with severe chronic disorders and who may need a network to rely on in their everyday lives. Now Health Nord reversed this in 2013 and signed a new agreement with the MS-Center, but at the same time they reduced the number of places. This meant that while patients in the north needed rehabilitation throughout the year, places were usually used up before the end of the year. It resulted in several vacancies, while patients needed it. I mention this today because this is the very core of what we are now adopting. If we are to provide an equivalent rehabilitation service for patients throughout Norway, they must be given the right to choose for themselves. In the first instance, this right is extended to public and private institutions throughout the country which have agreements with regional health establishments. Later, we hope in the Right, of course, that the freedom to choose will be further extended to apply regardless of whether the institution already has an agreement with regional health companies. We need to use all the good forces in our society. In the right, we are primarily concerned that patients receive the necessary treatment and rehabilitation, of high quality and as quickly as possible. Whether the institution is public, non-profit or whole-private, it doesn't matter to us as long as the quality is good. In Norway, we're good at saving lives, but we don't give patients good enough help to live. Many people experience an impressive health service in an acute disease phase — after a heart attack, a stroke or a traffic accident. But when the blue lights have been turned off, many people feel that the help is getting worse. Rehabilitation, which offers the opportunity to master everyday life despite injury or illness, is an important part of healthcare, but today many feel that the interaction between specialist health services and municipalities is not seamless enough. On our guard we have already done a lot with this. The grip of primary health notification, with greater teamwork and less silo-organisation of municipal relief services, is an important step on the way. The same is true of the law of physiotherapy and ergotherapy competence in municipalities. But the case today is primarily about the patient's right to greater freedom of choice in the rehabilitation of specialist health services. We look forward to the government bringing in the long-term recovery plan. It will give it the important promise and point forward. Rehabilitation is a health policy area that we have a great responsibility to develop, and in the Right there has been a year-long commitment to lifting just this field. Today, we can see that a new and important milestone has been reached in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2662	I'm glad I live in Norway. I am pleased that we politicians who are set to rule the country, in the questions we are debating today, largely agree. I am happy that I can choose which doctor I want, so that I can choose which physiotherapist I want, so that I can choose between public and private contracts, so that I can choose which hospital I want to be treated, so that I can soon choose which treatment I want, and so that I can, if not for a long time, also choose where I want to be rehabilitated. Then it is that the Progress Party would like to see us expand in even more areas, for example. care for the elderly. This government is building patients’ healthcare – or my healthcare. In it, freedom of choice and better use of resources have a great place. I'm seen, I'm heard – I know where the shoe is pressing. Is it then dangerous that I get a word in the team? Maybe I even get better when I get to be with and control myself a little bit? Maybe others will also experience the exact same thing when you're allowed to participate and decide? And then you can also make sure that you get a little faster, and you get to choose to be treated and get help from those you have the most faith in yourself. I am convinced that when you are allowed to make these choices together, it is also natural that waiting time goes down, and that hospitals and institutions get better time to deal with more – yes, that you may actually get better health because you get the opportunity to choose where you will get help. I also believe that when we put the spotlight on rehabilitation and strengthen the offer through freedom of choice, we give a strong signal about the importance of this service. Rehabilitation is an important part of the future, both to get more people back to work after illness and to keep more active longer, both within and outside the workplace. The size has decided to make free treatment choices. To date, private rehabilitation institutions have not been part of this scheme. That's why today's a happy day. A large majority of the hearing bodies also welcome free rehabilitating options. Then it was just to be lacking that we should not make sure to settle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2675	The Central Party supports these changes in patient and user rights laws that extend the right to free treatment options to include private rehabilitation institutions. It's said that this is a new and important milestone, and it's right to legislate the right you have to choose, but I would remind you that at least in our largest health care agency, which provides health care for half of Norway's population, it has our practice what we are now adopting, and other health care agencies have practiced it. It is good that the promise is now changed in line with practice and what is desirable. I think that's very good arguments for and get counter-argument against that when we have free hospital choices, it's natural that it also concerns rehabilitation. I agree with the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, that the procedure becomes a little confusing when one says that one should include this in free treatment options, but it should not be included in the regulation when it applies to the offeror, i.e. that it is within the old free hospital election scheme, where the choice is restricted, at least at present, to those institutions that have an agreement with the public. The centre party is for that restriction and has shown in note that we also believe it should be like this in the future. I just want to refer to a comment from the Center Party, where we refer to the National Audit Office's report on rehabilitation from 2010 – I'm not quite sure about the year. They indicated that in 2010 1 pst was received. of patients before physical medicine and rehabilitation at the Hospital Telemark entitled to the necessary health care, while for the comparison 90 pst of patients at the Health Lead was given the right to such treatment. That's my point now, that introducing such a right doesn't help if we don't make sure that patients are granted the right to rehabilitation. And when it's shown that there's so much geographical variation in Norway in giving dishes, I think there's reason to remember this, and that one has to make sure that it's similar practice, so that it doesn't depend on where a cage goes in the country, how easy it is to be assigned rehabilitation. The second thing I want to remember is that this case itself does not strengthen the rehabilitation field itself, because it is explicitly stated that the changes proposed here, for example. travel expenses must be managed within the current budgetary framework. We have noted with the Labour Party that we have pointed out that the necessary financial strengthening of the rehabilitation field comes in the alert escalation plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2686	The principle of user involvement is established here today that we are law-enforcement, and rehabilitation, regardless of which institution is important. Left supports the whole heart about it. Then there are some assumptions that have to be the basis for users to make a choice. There we have a way to go within rehabilitation. There are, as the representative Kjersti Toppe was in his post now, geographical differences. We need to unbalance them by standardizing more, and we need to inform them better, so that patients have the opportunity to participate in that choice. It doesn't matter. Some of the private operators are also faced with a challenging situation related to the tender practices used. It is being thrown around on a good deal of rehabilitation services today, which can sometimes make it difficult for patients to participate in the election and find the actor who gives the best offer. We must do the same. Much of what I'm into now will be a theme for the recovery plan, but there's every reason to discuss rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the future, because it's an important part of the overall healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2695	Rehabilitation is an important and central part of many patient pathways. Health services are saving more and more lives, but the service is also responsible for giving the population the opportunity to master life and be active after treatment has ended. Strengthening the provision of rehabilitation is therefore important to ensure that more people are given the opportunity to return more quickly to society and work and to live with their chronic suffering. For a long time, the right to choose a rehabilitation institution has been restricted to public hospitals. However, the rehabilitation services of specialist health services are largely provided by private institutions that have an agreement with health regions. Health regions buy services for more than one and a half billion dollars each year in the private rehabilitation institutions. To varying degrees, health regions have allowed patients to choose a treatment site, even if they have not had a legal right to choose private rehabilitation institutions. This will be changed by the amendment of the law today and is therefore an important part of building the patient’s healthcare. A right to choose between public enterprises and private rehabilitation institutions that have an agreement with health regions is now established. This means that all patients are given the opportunity to choose a rehabilitation institution, regardless of where they live in the country. The change could also contribute to better use of resources and shorter waiting times for patients. Increased competition between institutions may also lead to better quality of service. This is good for the patients. I am pleased that an overall committee joins the proposal promoted by the government in this proposition. This is an important strengthening of patient and user rights. Health regions have agreed with more than 50 private rehabilitation institutions to provide rehabilitation at the specialist health service level. Some patients would like a form of rehabilitation in which a specific institution has specific competence. Others may wish to rehabilitate near their families. The ability to choose between these institutions will give patients greater influence on their own rehabilitation, and that is important. At the same time, such choice also has some challenges. In many cases, good interaction between the municipality and the specialist health service will be important in order to achieve a good, sound and holistic rehabilitation process. Good interaction with the patient’s municipality of residence may be difficult to achieve when the patient chooses rehabilitation at an institution on another side of the country. It is therefore important for health regions to require good practices for interaction in the agreements with private rehabilitation institutions. Good information is important in order to make a good choice. When establishing a right to choose between public and private rehabilitation institutions that have an agreement with health regions, it is important that information on the services provided by each institution is easily accessible to patients. This is absolutely necessary in order for the patient to make the best possible choice about what kind of offer is best for him or her. The Health Directorate is therefore working to develop healthnorge.no further, so that patients can be helped to find institutions that have a relevant and appropriate offer to meet their condition and needs. The hearing opinion of Young Persons with Disabilities well summarises the purpose of this change in the Patient and User Rights Act when the organisation says that they are: ‘very positive for patients with rehabilitation needs to be given free rehabilitation options. It will contribute to ensuring equivalent health care regardless of geographical affiliation and to strengthening the ability of young people with disabilities to have specialised and adapted their follow-up to their diagnosis and situation of life.» I fully agree with that. This pleasure I share, but I do not share the pleasure of the representative Knutsen, who finds the greatest pleasure in this matter in that patients' ability to choose is still limited to those institutions that have agreed with the health regions. I see this as an important step also towards the future of rehabilitation becoming part of the regulation on free choice of treatment, so that the patient gets even more choice. But that the representative Knutsen finds the greatest joy in the fact that the patient's choice is still limited is not surprising, from a representative who has as his biggest campaign against the 2017 elections to weaken patients' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2727	The Minister of Health has therefore put forward a proposal calling for rehabilitation to be included in the free choice of treatment, in the same sense as free choice of hospitals and not as free choice of treatment under Regulation 1232. Now I understood him that he believes that it will come later, but will the Council of State introduce it if the experience he will reap in time with free treatment choices under Regulation 1232, will be as bad as they have been so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2732	Now I do not agree with the representative Knutsen that the experience has been bad. More and more patients get faster help and in line with what they want. I think that's good and not bad. I understand that the representative Knutsen thinks it is bad, but then we probably have a slightly different perception of what is most important about health care. For me it's that patients get good help. We want to expand the system of free treatment choices, but we have an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which also says it should be expanded gradually, and we also need to evaluate along the way, and of course I do. But for me, it's a goal that in the future the rehabilitation spaces should also benefit from this good patient rights that the government has introduced and that we hope will survive the 2017 fallout, but it assumes that Tove Karoline Knutsen loses the election to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2740	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2745	Yes, it is important that the patient receive prompt treatment. There is now some information that suggests that these times and lists that the Council of State has operated on may not be as ‘fresh’ as he has expressed. However, to the extent that we have reduced waiting times – and we have done so since 2009/2010, with the reservations that statistics do not always go to ‘driving after the hair’ – it is primarily the public hospitals and in cooperation with private and non-profit organisations that have agreed with public health companies that have done the steak. That's what I want to underline right here and now. As far as I remember, I guess it was about. 90 patients who had received treatment under free choice of treatment, as enshrined in Regulation 1232, and there is nothing to boast about, to be completely honest. But back to the rehabilitation: I just want to underline what I said in my post, and which the representative Toppe was also talking about, that most health companies have practiced this kind of free rehabilitation option that we are introducing today, so in practice this has been in force in most health companies. Then I also want to point out something that I especially hear in the north, but also elsewhere, and it is first of all that there should be institutions across the country, even in the districts, because we have many such institutions in the districts. And every time I meet the Director of the North-Norges Kurbad Rehabilitation Centre in Tromsø, he says that we need to have a better knowledge base on both quality and speciality at the various rehabilitation institutions. I think he's right, and I want to give it the invitation and the challenge to the Minister of Health to carry out such a review, to take a proper data collection and a review of what each institution has to offer and to offer patients. Having good knowledge of this is a prerequisite for us patients to be able to choose wisely and well for the rehabilitation that we're going to have. I just want to underline this, because I get the message from several rehabilitation institutions themselves that want this kind of review and documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2754	Yes, patients should be given better and good information, and in my paper I also explained that the Health Directorate is facilitating this in health Norway.no, which is constantly being developed to become a more important and important portal for patients to find information, both general information and information on their own health and situation in healthcare and on the various institutions. A job is now working with an escalating plan for the rehabilitation field, which is important for pointing the way forward in this area. I understand that the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen questions whether we have had a real decline in waiting time and the number of waiting patients. There are now over 40,000 fewer patients in health queues than when the Workers' Party was in government. The waiting time has fallen, and one has now removed the increase in waiting time that occurred during the previous government. So it's clear that the rotation we've seen from reference to investigation, instead of referral to treatment, is a rotation we have to investigate the background for, but it would be completely wrong to draw the conclusion that such a change is a kind of speculation, or something that happens without a medical justification. On the contrary, it may be both a result of the follow-up to the quality regulation that has now come, but it may also be due to other things. We see that Helseathlas has revealed that some patients who have both shoulder and knee operations should preferably not have had it, and then it is an advantage that they are referred to an investigation, for example. that they meet a physiotherapist first before they go to surgery. It's not that the optimal thing for a patient is always surgery. The Health Directorate has also followed patients into the patient course since 2014, over 300,000 patients, and it shows a real decrease in median waiting time of seven days compared to 2013. It is important that we keep a strong pressure on the importance of reducing unnecessary waiting. This government ensures that hospital waiting times are reduced, but also that hospital waiting times are reduced, such as: has done so with regard to the course of packages for cancer. More than 30000 cancer patients entered the package sequence in 2015, where the coordinator follows up, and where the waiting time is also measured and followed in the hospital, precisely because the waiting time is primarily to be medically justified. Moving patients after examination tactically is illegal, it is contrary to the law, and it will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2765	This is a debate that we are clearly coming back to, because what is revealed today by the Today's Medicine, which has been raised in the NRK, is actually quite serious. I have to say that we have asked a lot of questions in Stortinget about the relationship between the statistics we see, because we have known that such statistics are to be used with caution. That's why we've repeatedly told the Council here in this Chamber that when we measure the number of people or waiting time or the number of new referrals or resignations, we have to see this in context. I'm a little statistician. I've been inside looking at these statistics, and I'm not getting it to vote on what the Minister of Health says. When we've asked questions, written them, to the Minister of Health, we get answers that here we don't know the whole connection, or what that means. What this really means is that the Minister of Health has not been able to answer. What we're seeing now, as the Medisin of the Day now shows, is that the number of people on trial and waiting is increasing, while the number of people treated is decreasing. Then the Minister of Health has a problem. I hope we get back to that, because we want to get to the bottom of this. I would like to say that when the Minister of Health uses statistics – as he says in answer to us in written questions cannot explain one or the other – statistics in public space, together with Erna Solberg, along with Siv Jensen, are used to tell the stories of sunshine about how it has gone with waiting times and waiting lists, and then there is a big fall, and then there are things that are not related. The long story of waiting times, with the reservations contained in the statistics, is that waiting times have declined from the time health businesses came to balance economically, and that was around 2009 and 2010. We're going to enjoy all the real decline in waiting times, but the fantasy stories that the Minister of Health, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have told us about this, have today been thoroughly revealed by the Medisin of the Day, and now I hope we can start talking about these questions in a thorough manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2772	I understand that it is unpleasant for the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen to see that the policy of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left is working. But it does. It also did so in the policy of the red-green government, in the sense that when they took over in 2001, the waiting times had fallen, the number of waiting patients had fallen, and when they assumed responsibility, the development turned upside down, and they were unable to clean up their own mess until they had to leave the rudder to others. Now it's cleaned up, and we have a waiting time that is now shorter than it was when the red-green government took over. That's the results. The kind of relationship that today's Medisin refers to is not a new phenomenon – it is well known by the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen. That means that the numbers we're now discussing are comparable over time, and it can't be that the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen says that the numbers that applied under the red-green government can be used with the greatest boldness, while the numbers that come from the same source today have to be a big question mark. No, that's not the case, and that's why the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen is going to have to bear to hear – all the way – that the policy is working, the waiting times are going down, and the number of waiting patients is going down. This is due not least to the amazing efforts made in our hospitals, employees who have been on and worked beyond the evenings to achieve these results, reorganize work and work in other ways to provide patients with a better offer. I don't accept anyone calling it the effort of cheating or tricking. It's a real job that's done for the patient to get a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2779	It is absolutely right that the public hospitals – our common healthcare service – do a very good job. I totally agree with that, and to the extent that we get the waiting times down, it's the ones who do the job. The Minister of Health must begin to tell history as it is. I've never said that we can draw the statistics that were on our watch, after the hair. No, I've always said that statistics and tables we have to see the long lines in. If we look at the long lines, the Health Minister's party introduced treatment ceilings in 2004 because the economy was out of control. It was also when we took over – there was a large deficit in health companies. The Minister of Health knows that – I don't have to tell him. We did a job and got order in the economy around 2009–2010. It's measurable. Then we have to take all the statistics from there to this day, just from the long lines, and that's what I'm accusing the Minister of Health, not because the statistics are like that or something, but because he's using the statistics that he's doing, and he's standing and telling sunshine stories about his own policies that have suddenly changed in 2013. No, it's not like that. Work was done on converting the statistics in 2013, and then you have to look at the conversion before and after – it has been done in the past. All statistics must be sober and used in a proper and proper manner. The pressure that the Minister of Health has now put on health companies to stand every day and talk about ‘now the waiting time is down, now the waiting time is down’ has led to, as Dagens Medisin has now discovered, that hospitals have had to create internal waiting lists – internal waiting lists, I quote Dagens Medisin. The Minister of Health must take this seriously, and then he must stop making a picture of his own policies and be sober in the way he uses the results that can be read out of statistics. And then you have to take all the weaknesses that are also in the statistics, and then you have to put in those reservations if you're going to be serious and decent, and not bring people in Norway behind the lights. There are people in Norway I'm concerned about, not what you're telling the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2786	The President asks that reference be made to the President, not to individual representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2789	The debate has taken a turn to become a debate on capacity in the hospital sector. The choice of treatment has mainly taken out capacity in public hospitals, and it is an important part of the discussion that the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen is now drawing up. It is a fact that the red-green government thanked the capacity of the public hospitals that increased both waiting lists and waiting time for treatment. It is not the case, as the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen is now trying to draw up a discussion that the hospitals are transmitting treated patients, or that there is a decrease in the waiting list for referral to the study. This is a nuanced discussion on which the Council of State was involved in a previous article. There may be part of the explanation, but there's not necessarily any relationship between the two groups. The most important thing we have to do is ensure that the capacity of the public hospitals takes away, and we've especially seen it within the drug and psychiatry treatment with the golden rule, which the previous government has also trodden down, that capacity is increasing. This leads to fewer waiting and more people being treated. The discussion on study, and the statistics, as well, in which the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen correctly points – one must see statistics on time and overall – is a nuanced discussion we need to get back to. It's also related to what a putter is on, and today's government, with the support of the Right and Left, has got a majority to spend more money in the specialist health service. This also necessarily leads to more people being treated and fewer waiting. The discussion about free processing options is likely to continue. We see examples of other countries that have chosen to solve it differently. The Netherlands is one of the examples and where health insurance has been introduced for all, and uses insurance companies to be the patient’s agent. It is an interesting model that the Netherlands has developed. There are health insurance companies state-regulated, even state-owned – a completely different role from the inadequate regulation we have of Norwegian health insurance companies. It'll be exciting to see if the Workers' Party comes up with an alternative here, or if the only answer is more or less money to the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2798	There is no doubt that this debate takes a slightly different turn than I had thought when we started the debate today. That's interesting, but I have to say that listening to the representative Knutsen gives some perspectives. I don't think you should do so many searches on either Google, Quasir or other search engines until you see that more health ministers from the same party as the Knutsen representative have used the statistics to tell you how good the previous government was when it came to the health field. There is no doubt that this government is spending more money on health care than the previous government has ever been able to do. It's really not that weird either, because you always do. Budgets are increased every year, and therefore there is also more money to provide services for. I would like to point out that unlike the previous government, which wanted to impose restrictions, which did not want to welcome the private options, this is a government which, together with the cooperation parties, is in favour of private participation in and the provision of services that allow citizens and patients to participate in and choose. That's exactly what this started with – when it comes to rehabilitation, you should have freedom of choice and choice. Then the debate ends with which minister of health does yours or yours, and then it becomes a nice debate. I think what this government is doing, and what the Advance Party and the Right have delivered and do in these areas is very good and very important. We want more freedom of choice. We want to put patients in focus and make sure that the patients are the ones who are important here, that they are given the opportunity to choose or choose something because they have better faith in others to provide services. When the representative Knutsen was heard, he felt that his own use of statistics was quite different from the use of statistics by this government – and it is quite comparable – it is quite special. But I understand that you have a very great need to try to talk down instead of actually seeing that there are more patients being treated and getting better services than what it was under the previous government – and fortunately, health cows are going down with the tools and what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2809	I'll try not to be long now. To the last representative, Hoksrud: I boast by the government when I think it does something good. I think it's nice if it's really such that we get more activity in health care. I think that's very good. And no, it's not right that the representative Hoksrud says. We like to cooperate with the best private and ideals where it is possible, but then it has to be in cooperation with the public health service. Now we've talked up and down posts and walls about that we need a lot more interaction and cooperation between the private and the ideals to provide healthcare, and the public. The problem with free choice is that there is no such cooperation because they are established by the Directorate for Health. This does not mean that we have implemented the cooperation we have when we have an agreement between a health company and the private and non-profit organisations. 10 pst. of what was used for the hospital on our guard, was in collaboration with private and non-profits. We are for that, but then it should be that you get real cooperation, as it is when you get it through agreement. Then I just want to say to the representative Ketil Kjenseth that it was the civil government that introduced the roof of the number of treatments in 2004. The Minister of Health has also said that. We had to live with that roof because it was a way of dealing with the deficits. In reality, the ceiling was phased out in 2011 after working in hospital balance for almost two years. That's the truth about the roof. We could actually have formally removed it as well. Minister of Health Bent Höie, fine. But there was a civilised roof to govern the economy that had come out of control, and we actually removed it in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2820	There was a lot of debate at the end, and I feel like saying something when I hear the representative Bård Hoksrud and so far also the Minister of Health. The point is that what's happening in today's Medicine today is not something that you should minimize in this matter. I am absolutely sure that the representative Hoksrud, if he had been in opposition, would have gone against the government if such information came out. Instead of having a debate about who has had the best government, and who has given the most money to the health care system, one should go in and say: If we are okay at the hospital, do we have an invisible queue where there is no obvious number of people actually waiting? The headline for today’s Medisin is that there are more than 15 000 in an internal queue only at a clinic in Oslo University Hospital, while the public waiting list shows 2,456 waiting. The clinic manager there is quoted with some statement that I am responding to, showing some of the problem. A quote is: ‘It’s clear you’re doing something about what it’s focused on. If the internal waiting list had received the same amount of searchlight, more would have been done against it.» I want the Council of State – and he asks for it – to come to Stortinget in a proper way, and not at the brink of a debate that is really about something else, and to do so with waiting lists and what comes up about a so-called invisible queue in health care. In both the opposition and the position, we have to trust the numbers that appear. In any case, I would like to ask the Minister of Health for exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2833	Of course, we're going to take the Medisin of the Day seriously. I feel that one is doing it. I have heard that the Health Policy spokesman of the Workers' Party, who is not in the Chamber today, has also said that he should ask for some of the things that Toppe has just asked for. But when the Labour Party first chooses to withdraw the debate here, it would have been interesting if there were alternative policies we discussed, not just numeracy. I just heard the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen call himself ‘statistical’. For my own part, I'm not statistical, even though I have some statistical weights, but I know that there are three kinds of lies: white lies, black lies and statistics. Now that we're dealing with statistics, I think it's important that we relate to the same statistics, that we use the same numbers, and that we get a neat debate on it – and not, as was said, the debate at the end of another important and happy case for Norwegian patients. What could have raised this debate is if the Labour Party had drawn out what they are for, and not just what they are against. It would have been a much more pleasant debate, and then I think we should leave that statistical discussion to another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2842	I'd like to explain to the Biggest about these conditions. If it's made a sense that one doesn't take this seriously, one has not heard very carefully after what I said. I'm very clear that if any hospital or department calls patients to a first investigation or just to meet up to enforce a right and then place the waiting time afterwards, it's against the law. There's nothing that you can discuss is okay or not. It is contrary to the law, and it should not occur. It is also a very clear message to health businesses that in this case it has to be cleaned up. When the representative Toppe talks about hidden or internal waiting lists as if there was something very new or special, I think maybe the representative Toppe knows better. One knows very well that when a patient is called to study or treatment, it is often a patient procedure that starts. That a department has an overview of how many patients are in that course have tentative times, whether a patient should come in again, either for surgery or for a new study, is not negative. It would have been much worse if the Medisin of the day had revealed that the departments did not have that kind of overview. What is important, first, is that the hospital is aware that there is no deliberate shift of waiting time, second, that the waiting time that occurs during the course of treatment is not too long. We have given hospitals several tools just to avoid this. The cycle of cancer is a very clear example of this, where one not only reduces the waiting time to a hospital, but also the waiting time in a hospital. That idea is now being used in several areas, and that's very correct. The third development that we see, and which I have also said something about, is that more people are now referred to research instead of treatment. It's a development that we have to go into to see what's the reason for that. But to draw the bastant conclusion that some people make in this discussion, that this is done for tactical reasons, that it is unfortunate for patients, etc., is not the basis for this. The Health Directorate will be instructed to find out what this turn is about. However, the figures for the trend in waiting time are comparable over time. Waits are going down, and the number of waits is going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2861	I just want to say in the end that I am very happy that it is now signaled both from the Stortinget and from the Council of State that you should come back to this matter, because it is in no way illuminated. But as the Council of State started by accusing me of not wanting the patients to choose, and came up with this with waiting times and waiting lists, I found it necessary to pick up that glove. I'm very happy about it, because it's a fresh case, that came today, and I think many are very concerned about it. I look forward to a proper and thorough presentation and a debate on this later on, because this is a very important and serious matter. So it's just to say to the representative Sveinung Stensland what we are for: we are to strengthen the public health system, we are for the proposals that are contained in today's proposition. We're going to end it completely, and it was prepared for our guard. There I gave the representative Sveinung Stensland the answer he hopefully wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2868	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2884	Noise and mental health problems and suffering are one of the major health and social challenges in Norway. Towards half of the inhabitants of Norway develop mental health problems during their lives, and there is an extent that requires qualified help. Between 15 and 20 pst. In Norway, children and young people have reduced their function due to mental health problems. People with extensive drug and mental health problems live more than 20 years shorter than the average in the population. The government itself has spoken. priority should be given to drugs and mental health in the now proposed municipal proposal. In the specialist services, trust is given to the Golden Rule, which aims to ensure higher annual growth in drug and mental health treatment at regional level than for somatics. The community health service shall benefit from the newly attached escalation plan for drug use, but a corresponding mental health escalation plan is not planned. According to the Roadmap of the drug field, the government assumes that around 122,000 people can be considered as difficult-to-use in the housing market. In addition, about 6,200 are missing a fixed space to bow. People with drug problems and/or mental disorders are overrepresented among the homeless. A 2012 survey showed that more than half of the homeless depend on drugs and up to 40 pst. have mental disorders. Many users are developing a stable and safe housing as the most important first step in a rehabilitation process. A 2013 SINTEF report on unnecessary admissions, ready-to-print patients and the cooperation on single patients with drug problems and mental disorders show that a significant number of entries could be avoided if municipal facilities, especially housing, were in place. 7 pst. of patients in the field of mental health protection and 1 pst. in the case of multi-disciplinary specialised processing, registered as ready-to-print. Most people are waiting for a place to live. A lot of people need a 24-hour bus offer. A report prepared by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research from 2015 shows that 60 pst. patients in multidisciplinary specialised treatment have resided, while 40 pst. are registered as homeless at end of treatment. Half of the users of lowthreshold services live, and the other half are homeless. SINTEF also emphasises in its report that there is a significant potential to avoid installations through the establishment of adequate municipal provision, especially housing, and that it is indicated that up to 25 pst. the inclusion in mental health protection could be avoided by a stronger municipal provision. The interaction reform, introduced in 2012, outlined the following key health challenges: Health services are characterised by too little effort to limit and prevent disease. The need for a holistic and coordinated service for patients is not adequately addressed, and demographic development and change in the disease picture mean that we need to change the way health services are provided. The reform is referred to as a ‘directional reform’, where a running one must evaluate the means against the objectives. The reform assumed that the expected growth in the need for a comprehensive healthcare service would have to find a solution as far as possible in the municipalities and that a greater proportion of the resource growth in the health sector would come here in the coming years. Financial arrangements have been put in place, pay-as-you-go patients and municipal co-financing to support the desired development – the latter has now been phased out by today’s government – while at the same time an obligation has been imposed on municipalities to create municipal immediate aid beds. Russ and psychiatry were part of the interaction reform – many say the opposite – but the financial arrangements were initially confined to somatic patients, given that they already had a good municipal health and care service with regard to the care of the elderly. The intention and main challenges of the interaction reform are and were correct and necessary – I will clarify that. An increased commitment to the community health service, better prevention and better interaction with specialist services is also a major challenge today. The national audit has now examined the use of resources and the quality of health services following the implementation of the interaction reform. It shows that municipalities have increased their capacity to a small extent and strengthened their competence following the implementation of the interaction reform. It shows that within the Russian and Psychiatric areas there is no provision in the municipalities as daily space is reduced. 70 pst. of the municipalities have only slightly increased the number of annual work in the drugs and psychiatry field, while every 10 beds in hospitals have been laid down. This I think is disturbing information. The 2017 municipal bill states that the government has suspended the imposition of payment obligations on ready-to-depreciate patients in mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised treatment, and will introduce it at the earliest opportunity in 2018, and provides the basis for the decision that: ‘Unlikely, there is too much uncertainty in the data base to be able to implement the scheme without a significant risk to the provision of services to users with extensive and complex needs.’» The government, as announced in the primary health report, also states that municipal immediate assistance should be provided daily for mental health and drug use, but as early as 2017. The central party agrees that as long as we have financial incentives to manage the treatment process for the benefit of patients, these should in principle be diagnostically independent. At the same time, we think it is alarming that one now expands these payment schemes that we know is a driver to change the treatment process, but we are not sure that the municipal health service is developed and in advance. For we know today that the annual work effort in municipal mental health work is greatly increased through the escalation plan from 1998–2008. However, according to a 2013 SINTEF report, the annual effort has not increased since 2007, while patients are being released more quickly from the specialist healthcare service. And already many municipalities in the reporting state to the Health Directorate that the specialist services are being built up faster than the municipalities have the framework to build up. This is entirely in line with what the Riksrevision also points to. In such a situation, I ask whether it is a responsible health policy to introduce the economic instruments of interaction reform as early as 2017-2018, in an area that has been criticised for being undersized.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2925	The Representative Tope is addressing an important theme. In the evaluation of the supply of people with mental health challenges and drug dependence, more than 24 hours a day in mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment alone can be considered. Although the interpellant is right to reduce the number of daily places in mental health protection in the period 2010–2014, the number of stays in the district psychiatric centres and hospitals increased by nearly 3 pst. In 2014 it was treated 10 pst. more patients in mental health protection than in 2010. The number of days spent in multidisciplinary specialised treatment increased by more than 10 pst. during the same period. Our government's ambition is to create the patient's healthcare. For people with mental health challenges or drug dependence, it is about facilitating independence, security and the ability to live a good life with the best possible quality of life. It doesn't do it through long-term housing, but by helping people where they live. Let me give you a clear example: active outreach treatment team. Seeking treatment teams based on the ACT model are an offer for the very sickest mentally ill, i.e. those who often have a drug problem in addition and who do not benefit from traditional treatment in mental health protection. By facilitating follow-up to the patient’s premises and arenas, the number of days spent in specialist health care is halved in two years. For this group of patients, this is a huge decrease. These patients were on average admitted more than 140 days a year. It's more than a third of a year in a hospital. About two thirds of these days they were placed under compulsion. No one shall tell me that this gives continuity, predictability and security or facilitates an independent and normal life. Now the system of ACT teams is evaluated and the results are very good. For the 142 patients involved in the evaluation, the number of annual days spent in specialist healthcare was reduced by over 8 000 over two years. The evaluation is clear: this approach is good for patients and relatives, and in addition it is good for the economy. I therefore believe that we do a bear service for users if we allow this discussion to be too much about daily places in the field of mental health and health. Rather, we need to talk about how we further develop the good models, where services adapt to the patient's needs and enable individuals to master their own lives. We also need to become more concerned with what is important for patients than what we offer patients. If we lock ourselves in the last question, we will always look back and become comfortable in an old-fashioned mindset and old-fashioned way of thinking about services. I don't want that for mental health and drug services. Of course, we must also have good daily services in the specialist health service. In the drug field, in particular, many people may need longer treatment in an institution to become safer and learn to live their lives differently from what they have grown up with, perhaps in the street. Ever since the government joined, we've been quite clear that we're prioritizing mental health and intoxication. That is why we have developed a stepping-up plan for the drug field, reintroduced the golden rule, we are now working to introduce a package of drugs and mental health, we have introduced the free treatment option system – first of all for these patient groups – and we are now introducing demands for psychological competence in the municipalities. I have faith that the municipalities can and will give priority to mental health and drug work. However, the previous government's insistence that mental health and intoxication had to be kept out of the way when the instruments of the interaction reform were introduced has had consequences for the priorities of the municipalities. It's understandable that it went as it went. Of course, neither community co-financing, the obligation to pay for patients who are ready-to- print, nor the obligation to provide immediate help, for people with mental health and drug problems, have an effect. We see that effect today. We want to counteract that effect. We have abolished municipal co-financing. From next year, the obligation to provide immediate daily help in municipalities will also include mental health and drug abuse, and we aim to introduce the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print as soon as possible. As early as next year, we will take action to strengthen the interaction on the ready-to-print patients. Today, something is between 3.5 and 7 pst. Of the laydays in mental health protection, patients with ready-to-print conditions, and for multidisciplinary specialised treatment, the figure is between 0.5 and 1 pst. It doesn't sound like a large proportion, but the fact is that many of these patients are ready to print for a very long time. Looking at the group registered in the Norwegian patient register, it looks like patients in mental health protection are on average ready to print for about 60 days. I'm not a professional in this field, but you don't have to have a very good experience to imagine the hopelessness, the lack of power and the frustration that have to build up in patients who have to wait two months to be written out. No one had accepted that a cancer patient or heart surgery had to stay in the hospital for two months after treatment because the municipality did not have the offer they were supposed to have when they finished in the hospital. However, when I do not introduce the obligation to pay in 2017, it is about risk. When our data sources crack as much as they do, we cannot introduce the system without risking a weakening in the supply of patients. If the hospital outflow exceeds the actual number of patients who are ready to print, the hospital supply will be reduced. If the extraction is too small, the municipal offer will be harmful. That is why we need to have better data quality. But this does not mean that we should sit still and see that people live in hospitals for long periods after they have received treatment. Paying for patients who are ready to print does not involve any new responsibility for the municipalities. They already have a crystal clear responsibility for providing the necessary health and care services, including for citizens with mental health challenges and drug dependence. At the same time, many patients who are currently ready to print daily in specialist healthcare will continue to need extensive specialised health care. Good planning and good cooperation between patients, municipalities and specialist health services are crucial to the success of providing good services for the benefit of users. That is why I want to work with KS to see how we can clarify the requirements for planning and cooperation on ready-to-print patients. I hope we can do this as early as 2017. The package trajectories for mental health and drug use are another important tool for strengthening coordination, cooperation and user involvement. The development of such package trajectories shall begin in the autumn. There is a wide variation in treatment offered to people with drug and mental health challenges. A more systematic approach, making it easier for the patient to choose treatment in consultation with treatment providers, could provide better and more equivalent treatment for all. The interpellant asks what is my plan and my tools to ensure a proper offer to patients with drug and mental health challenges. To that end, I would say that our main plans are in the primary health service message, the public health message, the national health and hospital plan and the escalating plan for the drug field. The size has dealt with all these documents, and the majority have joined the direction that is being pointed out. The instruments are also described in these documents, such as: to legislate for psychological competence in municipalities, to introduce a package of drugs and mental health, to introduce the tools of the interaction reform also for these patient groups, to strengthen municipal drug work, to continue to give priority to drugs and mental health in the specialist healthcare service and, in particular, to continue to strengthen the influence of users on healthcare. It is the users and patients themselves that are the most important means of creating the patient’s health care and to ensure that we do not get stuck in yesterday’s solutions to tomorrow’s challenges. And I'm absolutely convinced that with the strong commitment that is now in the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left for these patients, this is one of the areas where it's most clearly going to make a difference that there are these four parties that govern Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2972	When we introduced the interaction reform, she was banned for many years before she started working in 2012. One had also provided development and planning tools in my opinion there were at least three government budgets in advance of the law and the cooperation reform being started to work. That's what I'm worried about now, is that one in the municipal bill this year decides that immediate help beds should be introduced from New Year's onwards, and one gets a year and a half before the imposition of the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print. So the interaction reform was better off than what a new one is proposing. At the same time, we have received a national audit report, which I do not hear the Council of State say so much about, saying a lot of things about how it went wrong that it was forbidden and not least about an area where the municipalities had already built up a good apparatus. The municipalities were responsible for the care of the elderly; it was the hospital and home care, and there was not so much that was going to be, at least in theory, to receive the ready-to-print patients. There's not the same situation in the Russian and psych fields. It has also been shown by the National Audit Office, and I said it in my article, that in this area the municipalities are far worse off being able to accept patients from hospitals. I agree that these financial measures and instruments should be introduced. What I disagree with is that it's already going to be imported. Then I fear that we will make the same mistake again. Of course, I agree with you that patients in the prenatal care and psychiatric care community should not stay in the hospital. I am interested in this, among other things. in Haukeland, Bergen. This is also not a debate that I am in favour of day-to-day treatment and the Council of State is in favour of day-to-day treatment in an outpatient clinic, but it must be a match: when we do a conversion that is both professional and political, one must be able to assess whether it is too fast and too fast, or whether one should stop a little and see that the lower limb has a chance to increase its capacity and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2981	There is a link between always bringing patients with drug and mental health challenges to the last stop and the offer being established. I totally disagree that this is too early; it is too late. There is a reason that municipalities have not given sufficient priority to these patient groups, and that is because in the interaction reform, strong economic incentives were introduced to give priority to other patients. Then the answer to that cannot be to postpone this further. No, the answer is that now municipalities must give priority to building up offers for these patient groups. They also receive financial assistance through the escalating plan for the drug field. It gets them through the transfers that the transfer of new tasks gives, and this is important for the priorities of the municipalities. The municipal immediate aid beds have an occupancy rate of 40 pst. They have space. People have a combination of different diseases, and when people with drug and mental health challenges live 20 years shorter than the population otherwise in Norway, it is not just because they do not get good enough help with their drug and mental health challenges. No, it's because they don't get enough help with their other diseases. What's my big concern is that if we're not also clear that these beds also apply to people with drug and mental health challenges, then I'm afraid that when a patient who lives in a municipality and needs a community immediate help offer, comes with his complex illness, with some somatic diseases, with a drug addiction, with some mental health challenges, then the answer is to stop the door: you're addicted to alcohol, you have a mental diagnosis, then you shouldn't get help here, because this is an offer for somatic patients only. We cannot look at such developments, and therefore we must use these instruments in combination with the other tools I mentioned in my post, precisely to help people with mental health challenges and drug dependence feel that they live in a municipality occupied by them, to which they are welcome at home, which builds up offers for them, where they have housing, work and activity. So we know that it works. That's what's absolutely fundamental. Among them all, the sickest we know it works. This leads to less coercion, it leads to less need for hospitalization, and it leads to better mastering. Then it is not the individual who is ‘hopeless’, as they have often been mentioned in local government in these kinds of discussions. Then it is our services that have been ‘hopeless’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e2990	I would first like to thank the representative Kjersti Toppe for addressing this issue, because in all the studies it turns out that it is in the transition between specialist and municipality and specialist that we have one of the most vulnerable, vulnerable and risky areas. The working party is in doubt as to the speed at which it is introduced. On the one hand, we have experience, when we have been out on committee trips and on visits, that ruspacers are added to very good offers in the specialist health service, and then they are printed directly to the hospital – that is, a treatment for our fellow citizens who do not belong anywhere. On the other hand – many of whom have been involved, the Council of State and the representative Kjersti Toppe – there is no doubt that very many of these patients will gain a much better quality of life by getting a normality around them, getting well-being and adapting to work. We also know that there are, unlike in the somatic, more complex disorders associated with ruspacents. It's both psychiatric diagnosis, drug diagnosis, and somatic challenges. Taking this up in a good way is also a challenge. We're a little excited about how to further develop incentives so that it doesn't make it so that the most resource-intensive remain in the institutions, and that the municipality takes them as the easiest to adapt, as it was when we set up homes, where they chose on the top shelf to get good results, and where they took the simplest patients to adapt them to homes. In the area of mental health, people have actually come further. Daily services are being stepped down, while daily services are increasingly being provided, where relationships relating to own networks and adaptation to housing and work can also be maintained. As far as funding is concerned, I do not agree with the Council of State. Municipal co-financing also had many positive aspects. At least that's the feedback we received from the municipalities. It was the driving force for them to engage so strongly in the build-up of the interaction reform. But it had its weaknesses, and finding incentives that could replace the positive drive that we experienced in the context of municipal co-financing will also be a challenge that should be looked at more closely. It is quite right that we have free capacity on the immediate help beds. However, it is also linked to the fact that the scheme has not been put in place in relation to permanent doctors, local authorities and specialists. You haven't gotten that exposure related to how they should be used properly. It will also apply to drug use and psychiatry to the greatest extent. In the case of Ruspacents, the Workers’ Party – when we’ve been around and visited institutions – has seen that there may be a need to take the interaction reform even further than what we’ve done in somatics. Then I want to repeat what we experienced when we visited one of the heaviest drug institutions that Health Bergen has, the Floencollectivet, which has applied the methodology in which they take full advantage of the job support methodology in order to adapt them to housing. Then you need a combination of municipal services, specialist health services, and not least cooperation with Nav. With regard to the quality of the offer that can be made in municipalities, we are now dealing with a new municipal register that can provide a better overview of the quality. But it takes a long time before we get enough data, so there's probably the biggest concern on the part of the Workers' Party about the lack of knowledge we have in the municipalities to make sure that the most vulnerable patients get the best offer possible. As an opposition, we push where we see weaknesses, and then we expect – and are happy to discuss – good answers where we see opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3011	Thank you very much to the inter-pellant, Kjersti Toppe, who raises a problem issue that I think everyone is aware that is important also for the government parties. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. This case fully demonstrates that politics works, that the interaction reform has had its effects, and that if one stimulates action, it tends to happen. What is one of the challenges is that a lot has happened within somatic matters, and then one has not prioritised this field, and I believe that the Council of State has balanced well in its answer. So it's also another part of this. Here, a number discusses at a very general level, but if one goes at municipal level, there are even greater differences. That's one of the reasons why in the Right Health fraction we joke that we're the fraction in the Right that's the most for a big community reform. It could have been nice to take that municipal debate now, but then we would probably get the whole Storting on our necks beyond the evening. Interpellant should be right in one thing: the number of daily places in mental health protection has been reduced in the period 2010–2014, but this needs to be seen in the context of other parts of the healthcare system. The number of DPS stays, district psychiatric centres, has increased and the number of hospitalisations has increased over the same period. We also have to take into account the fact that very many of the patients who were previously treated in a 24-hour service receive a much better offer with an active outreach treatment team. It is better for most patients to receive treatment in the environment in which they live, work and thrive, than to be institutionalised. Of course, within the professional environment there are different opinions about what is best for the individual patient, but at least it is certain that you have moved away from the idea that accommodation in daily services is the best offer. This has led to a number of debates around local health businesses. It is protested that daily services are being offered, but in many cases it may be a good thing, but one must of course build up others, similar offers. The ACT team system demonstrates that one can come a long way by thinking new, and I think the answer from the Council of State, which I put down 100 pst. back, shows that the government is thinking new about these questions. At the same time, this must be balanced against other parts of the health system, and one must also take over the prevention aspect, what one does in the field of mental health in young people, the involvement of psychologists in municipalities — all of this is linked. We have to assume what's important for patients, and take inward that patients are as different as ordinary people. I want to tell you a little bit about the things that have made the most impression on me in my time as a magnificent representative. It's meetings I've had with just this patient group. One was a meeting that several people here were attending, with the Change Factory, with young people who had had it tough, and who still had it tough, who told about their health care meetings when they came up with their mental health problems. What was left as an impression was that they met different therapists each time. They didn't meet the same one, it was a little bit too random, really there was a goal of finishing the hour, so they could get to the next patient. It's a little too much of that, based on the patient stories I hear. I've had meetings with Mental Health, among others. in my hometown, Haugesund, and they tell the exact same thing: they're being admitted to an institution. Then they feel that they are a foreign element and are told to sit still and be in their room. It's not active treatment. Active treatment is to help people and rehabilitate them in the environment in which they actually thrive. When you talk to people who have been inside a DPS, it's interesting that they can tell that the DPS is like that, and the other DPS is like that. The pros are the same, and the owners are the same, but there are different cultures on the different DPSs. We still have a way to get into the specialist health service to get this in place. But the headline is that patients who are struggling with mental health challenges want to be seen and come into society, and I don't think the way into society is through institutionalization. I think it's through outreach teams and more decentralised treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3034	First of all, thank you to the representative Kjersti Toppe for raising a debate on an important patient group. Russ and psychiatry patients represent a patient group that has been down-prioritised over a long period of time and disciplines that have not received the necessary attention and resources. In particular, the drug field is characterised by a wide variety of services and interventions, ranging from lowthreshold to multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. Supply, in particular 24-hour treatment services, is based on very different treatment philosophies. This represents a quality challenge in a field with a weak evidence base. There is a great need for more standardised treatment and, as the Council of State pointed out, more use of the package. We need to be more able to measure the quality and effectiveness of the treatment. We need more research and development. So we need more and more evidence base. But we also need increased capacity, including in municipalities – yes, we also need increased competence in municipalities. Several refer to meetings and excursions, and I have been visiting the municipality of Sarpsborg. They have obtained a differentiated housing policy that I, despite having been on the municipal board for 16 years and have been involved in dealing with several housing social action plans, have not seen the spouse of those we are talking about now. They have container housing for those who are not motivated for any treatment, they have treatment homes for those who are in a treatment course, and they have drug-free homes for those who have been through a process and who are not to live with those who are still addicted. They even have their own experience consultant in the municipality. All municipalities should have such a housing policy against addicts. In my own municipality, we have STYRK services, and LAR patients are an example of a treatment group that has grown violently in the last ten years. Drug-assisted rehabilitation was almost non-existent before 2000. So it's a whole new patient group. In the municipality of Gjøvik, they have developed systematic follow-up, and several are now actually successful without the use of detoxification facilities. Of course, several municipalities should have such a systematic offer. Several should not leave everything to the decision maker, some should build up the capacity of Ø-help and use it better, and others should do as Trondheim Municipality, develop health care services, as well as develop ACT teams and other mobile teams. But we also need to talk about the elephant. It is municipal reform that can strengthen the capacity and quality of municipalities. The municipal reform in 1964 took place, among others: to build dwellings, to expand infrastructure and technical services, to build secondary schools. Today, the motivation for a municipal reform is welfare services, which need to be strengthened. As I said, the LAR patients, drug-related drug dependence — we did not know what it was in the 1960s — have grown enormously, so today we have received thousands of patients in the LAR. But that in itself makes us have to discuss these challenges. In addition, this is a high degree of spatial challenge. Gjøvik Municipality, an old industrial city with classic social challenges and addiction challenges, has many of the neighborhood and neighbouring municipalities' ruspacers visiting every single day, even many nights. Many of them lack accommodation. However, finding collaborative forums to strengthen the provision of these patients, whether housing or other treatment services, is very difficult, and there is very little inter-municipal cooperation on these patient groups. So, as the Council of State says, it's certainly time for us to get started, speed up and get the municipalities to prioritize the work with just these patient groups, who sit and have been sitting at the bottom of the table for too long, and which the municipalities have to take more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3053	This is a patient group that deserves to be better taken care of, both in the specialist health service and in the community health service. The dwelling is "basic". Housing is "basic" for all of us. It is completely impossible to benefit from healthcare or other services, such as: if you enter training courses. It's completely wasted if people don't have a safe home when they get out. It's a challenge I have for the government, and it's that they need to strengthen this field a lot more than they've done, because it's the housing prices that break people's ability to manage now. If you have a medical history and a drug history, there are few of them who have some particular money for equity. These are projects that the representatives of Kjenseth told us about from Sarpsborg. There are Housing First projects, there are rental-to-own homes, but it is absolutely necessary that the House Bank has funding to go into these projects, and there the government has cut. There are some increases in some of the grants, that's good, but there's too little to do with this, and we can spend an incredible amount of money on this without it going to make a big difference if people don't have a safe home. SV agreed with the government when it came to the municipal co-financing, but we are concerned about the pace now of imposing increased responsibility on the municipalities for this before we have managed to build up a corresponding offer at municipal level. I hear many people now say that the somatic interaction reform is going so well. It varies a lot from municipality to municipality and has little to do with the size of the municipalities – also. In the case of drugs and psychiatry, there are also some municipalities that are good, but a lot of people are missing. We had a hearing in the municipal committee on the municipal bill a few days ago, and then this was what KS took up as a big concern, both the clarification of the task and how this could be built up. I see that the government has added 300 million. kr in the free income of municipalities, but point 1: it is too small. Point 2: In that case, it has to be earmarked. You can hold on and raise your index finger and feel that this does not take the municipalities seriously, but if you are serious about it by the state, you have to say that this money is to be used for this. As far as child protection is concerned, the government has now – last year and this year – just as we did when we were in government. We tried without, and it didn't work out, and it's so important. This is also important. These are some of the same people who have been in child protection before, and who need to be met properly. Then there are many things that need to be put in place. KS also said that they felt it was absolutely necessary to strengthen the DPS before this became necessary, so that one could get treatment quickly when needed, and that it was not well developed to now that this conversion could be carried out. When it's so that it's 25 pst. Rehabilitations that could have been avoided by stronger municipal services are – I haven't seen those numbers, except that I hear them being referred to here – a very important signal, but then we really have to be able to build it up. No one wants patients to be kept in institutions, either by coercion or against their will or if they have completed treatment. But I would also like to raise a little cautionary index to believe that you can streamline all types of treatment down to fixed timeframes, etc. It can't be done. I have also visited a lot of institutions for many years, and some of them deal with, for example. double diagnoses, which are now in the very short course of treatment, so that you are barely sober before you go out again. I would warn against saying, without reservation, that short courses in specialist health care are always a good thing. We're not going to discuss the package sequence in psychiatry right now, but SV and I believe that it's a transitory guarantee these patients need, because psychiatry combined with drugs has quite different pathways than the somatic disease has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3070	The central party's plan to make a change in the municipalities of the drug and psychiatry patients is to have a five-year municipal mental health escalation plan with ear-marked funds. We have a proposal on this in Stortinget. That's where we got the votes from the Workers' Party and SV for. It's because you don't have a mental health escalation plan that we're worried about how this is going to work. The council said in the post that this isn't too early -- it's too late. Then I would like to remind you that when we introduced the interaction reform, today's government party was critical when we said in it that we were aiming to introduce this for drugs and psychiatry. So now the whole problem has been turned around. If the council thinks it's too late, why has he been waiting for three years? And why has he postponed it for one year from what was announced this summer? It is well because, as stated in the municipal bill, there is ‘uncertainty in the data base to be able to implement the scheme without a significant risk to the service provision’. I mean that one should not dispel my concerns because the government itself is channelling it into the community proposition. When it comes to immediate relief beds in the municipalities, I hear the Council argue that there is room. But serious numbers, it's not about having a place -- it's about having a treatment offer. It is not the same thing to treat a patient with COLS or aggravation of other known somatic diseases, which is to have a professional offer for those with problems of drug and mental health. Are they the professionals present in the municipalities now? Are they there for New Year's? That's my question. The obligation to pay out-of-print patients shall come in 2018. My question is about the government and the state council can guarantee that the same thing has happened in the somatic sector, that the quality of the supply for those printed out is too bad, as the Riksrevision has pointed out. We thank all those who have had articles. The target is not so bad, but it is important that the health services in the municipalities are spared for the additional responsibility. My concern is that what's happening will be able to affect those for whom this is actually for, i.e. the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3084	I fully agree with the representative, Karin Andersen, that housing is absolutely essential. For this reason, the government has also presented a housing social action plan, and housing is also a central point in the escalation plan for the drug field. But many of these patients, especially in mental health, already have a home, and that's not what's the main challenge, but that one doesn't get a good enough follow-up offer in the municipality that one lives in, and stays in the institution for too long. Otherwise, Karin Andersen's contribution was a powerful settlement with the consequences of the policy of the previous government. I'll let that lie. It is clear that it is now important to be clear on the responsibility of municipalities, including those patients. The representative Tope questions the offer these patients will receive in the municipal immediate help beds. It is absolutely central that the municipal emergency beds are not beds that are established because they should be an alternative to a specialist health service in cases where the patient needs specialist health care. These beds are established because the local health service should have an opportunity to hospitalise patients whom they consider to be in a situation where they do not take the chance that the patient is at home but that the patient should have supervision and assistance from health professionals at the primary health service level. In fact, I expect a doctor who is trained as a general practitioner to also be able to provide help to a person who has drug problems and mental health challenges, at a primary level of health services. Of course, if the patient needs specialist healthcare, the patient should come to the specialist health service. That's the way it is in somatic matters, and I can't understand why it's going to be different in the fields of drugs and mental health. We know that these tools work, and if we're going to get out of the situation where we're constantly finding that the municipalities don't give priority to this group, that it's not a good enough offer, then we have to use some of the tools we see to work. That's exactly what the government is proposing – while we have an escalating plan for the drug field, while at the same time giving us concrete, earmarked money to build up mental health offers, as we do in terms of psychological competence in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3097	So the debate is on case No. 6 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3111	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3118	The direct background to this matter is the examination by the Control Committee of Documents 1 for the 2014-2015 Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the calendar year 2013. The Control Committee had two hearings on the matter and was briefed on the major problems that had arisen in the Modernisation Programme, Project 1. Lack of technical management and lack of clarity from Nav and the department on what was to be resolved made it clear when dealing with the matter. The main problem was the poor management, management and organisation of Project 1. The Committee pointed out that its own skilled professionals, who knew what a needed help from purchased consultants, were essential to obtain a good result. It was a unanimous control committee as in the Inner East. 272 S for 2014-2015, issued on 21 May 2015, promoted what was the request decision No. 584, of 2 June 2015, as quoted in the setting. It's a big deal, it's an important thing, and it's not least a precious thing. It is a unanimous committee that is tabling its position, with a comment from the Labour Party. The proposal calls for the consent of the Storting to launch Project 2 for the modernisation of ICT solutions in the Working and Welfare Act, the Modernisation Programme, with a recommended cost framework of a total of 1,316 billion. kr. Project 2 is planned to be implemented between 2016 and 2019. Project 1 of the Modernisation Programme was completed in 2015, with less functionality than originally planned in 2015. This project has, among other things: delivered new management systems for disability and new platform for digital marine control solutions. Project 1 did not provide a new, reusable decision-making solution, which was originally planned. Instead, the disability solution was developed on the same platform as the pension solution. The Committee points out that Project 1 was delivered according to the plan in terms of time and cost, but to a lesser extent than originally planned. The Committee notes that, as a result of the problems raised in Project 1 and the lack of delivery of a new decision-making module, the planning of Project 2 has become significantly more extensive than originally envisaged and has taken more time. Project 2 of the Modernisation Programme focuses on the modernisation of labour and welfare management performance systems. Project 2 envisages the development of a reusable decision-making solution for individual benefits. The decision-making solution, together with the platform for digital marine control solutions, will be used to provide careful solutions for parental beds and single-use buffers. In addition, the proposal shows that Project 2 will complete the work on the specialisation of the performance management, which is important to realise the benefits of the modernisation project. We have noticed that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs believes that there are no alternatives for the implementation of Project 2 which are more effective or will have lower risks than the proposal promoted in the proposal. This is why – and it is important – the Committee does not have the basis to disagree with the conclusion of the ministry. In the present proposition, Prop. 67 S for 2015–2016, is briefed on the overall state of progress of the Modernisation Programme. The Committee understands the dilemma posed by the risks of the Modernisation Programme and further progress in the ICT process. We assume that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in ordinary documents informs the Stortingen about the progress of Project 2 and that the Committee agrees that the Stortingen should be submitted to Project 3 of the Modernisation Programme after Project 2 has been completed and Project 3 is planned and quality assured. The Committee would stress that the point of the Modernisation Programme is to obtain as much as possible from modernised ICT solutions in the Working and Welfare Setatate within a range of project risks. And here we are at the main point, here we are at the main challenge in this whole document. So the main point is to make progress. It has been important for the Council of State, and it has been important for the Committee. Progress must therefore be ensured, at the same time as there is a genuine project risk. Ensuring progress is essential in order to improve the procedural tool facing you. What is clear is that there has been a serious case in the past, and no further detailed follow-up of Project 2 to Stortinget should be necessary when we know history. We are pleased that it is added to automated treatments. We clarify – and I would ask the Council of State to bear in mind – that it is important to ensure a greater range of services for those users who need it, by providing Nav offices in each municipality with the necessary time and staff to assist people who need practical assistance in completing applications in order to obtain their legitimate benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3144	The launch of Project 2 in the modernisation of ICT systems in the Working and Welfare Act is a more important issue than the headline of the first eye can indicate. The Nav reform is a reform for users. Where people used to feel like throwing balls between social security offices, employment offices and social services, there was now going to be one door to the entire range of services. The user should be in the centre, individual level should be tailored in cooperation with the individual, based on the individual's resources, wishes and opportunities. It was a great reform. When Odelstinget adopted the Nav reform almost unanimously on 7 June 2006, it was the end of a long and partially twisted investigation and processing process, but it was at the same time the beginning of a new one and – should it turn out – even longer and even more challenging process called implementation, and it is much nearer completion. The Committee is currently in the process of preparing its report on Nav, and it clearly shows that there is still a great deal to be done before the decision of the Stortinge Decision of 2006 has been implemented. ICT modernisation is only one element in this image, but still an important one. In St. prp. No 46 for 2004–2005, it is quite right to point out that it is absolutely necessary to modernise the ICT systems of labour and welfare management in order to achieve the objectives of the Nav reform, so we are currently addressing a key element in the implementation of the whole reform. No one is surprised that this was and is a big and complicated task. Different data solutions at different levels at different levels are a well-known problem across the public sector. With the Nav reform, all of a sudden all of these systems met in a way that no one had thought about when they were introduced around. Even internally in the social security system, two different computer systems were at one time successful because at a crucial time in the digitisation of the social security system, it was not possible to agree on what to choose. It was therefore clearly stated to Stortinget that the modernisation of ICT in Nav had to be gradual and controlled. It would prove to be more gradual over time than foreseen, and more uncontrolled than controlled – both in terms of profit and money. But I leave that part of the case, it has been the subject of its own rounds in the Enlarged Council's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. What is most important for us in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs now is that the modernisation project is on track and becomes more predictable in terms of implementation, because it is still the case that the Nav reform depends on the deployment and functioning of ICT systems. This is about the main income of many people and that it is going to come in time and with the right amount. It is about the proper retention and use of sensitive personal data, and it is about releasing resources from simple tasks to work purposefully and in combination with those who want and can live on income from their own work. Then the 19 000 employees have to get the tool they need to do the best possible job. They must have the opportunity to free up time to work closely towards a labour market where the time available is higher than 20 years. In its review of the Modernisation Programme, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has emphasised the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that no further exceedances and delays occur. In this connection, the Workers' Party had some questions to the Council of State about matters that we did not think were entirely clear about the proposition, and that we received in a letter in April. I'm just mentioning a couple of the most important things. Firstly, although the cost framework for Project 2 is not now being increased, the content is shrinking. When Project 3 is completed in 2020, there are still projects that remain, so we're actually still talking about cost excesses, but they don't show up in dollars and dollars. We have asked if the Council of State has thought about the opposite, to ask for more money and to be completed more quickly, and she answers that it has been assessed, but rejected for capacity reasons. The second thing I want to mention is KMD's digitalisation circular where the companies, where relevant, are required to use Altin. In 2014, Altinn said that they also had good solutions for Nav, but the Council of State has answered questions from us that Altinn has also been evaluated and rejected. As the rapporteur pointed out, we have no basis for considering these questions differently. So let me end by wishing the Council of State good luck with further progress in the Nav ICT project. It's important to the users that she succeeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3159	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough and comprehensive work involving individuals and the organisation of an active professional life. The government's policy is that values must be created before they can be shared. The labour force is the main resource of society, and there is therefore a need for an active labour and welfare policy with a view to maximising participation in the labour market. High employment contributes to the financing of welfare schemes and provides opportunities for further development of the welfare society. At the same time, it is important to take into account that not everyone is able to obtain work on their own. It may then be necessary for the public to contribute. Labour and welfare policies must enable people who have difficulties in entering the labour market to have a suitable job and to prevent working-age people from falling out of work. This also includes qualification and organisation in the form of adapted tasks for those who need it. An inclusive working life with room for all and a labour and welfare policy that supports this vision are, together with education and good health services, key instruments in the fight against poverty and exclusion. When the government dropped short of time, Report. St. 33, NAV in a new era — for work and activity, it underlines the emphasis the government is putting on getting the most out of work, because work is important for individuals, but also because it is important in the development of the welfare society. The Communication is about proposals for action to make labour and welfare management more robust in meeting the challenges of the future. An important contributor to this work is the single local Nav office that facilitates the widest possible operation or entry into work. To accomplish this task, the Employment and Welfare Unit is dependent on good ICT solutions. Therefore, the government has promoted Prop. 67 S to the UK in order to support the launch of Project 2 of the modernisation of ICT solutions in the Labour and Welfare Act, in order to achieve the objectives of the Nav reform. It is a goal that ICT solutions should be user-friendly so that more effective procedures can be achieved allowing more time for those who need closer follow-up to get out of work. There are always challenges in developing new ICT systems, but at the same time it is important to modernise to meet the needs of the future. New ICT solutions can deliver quality assurance and streamline applications in order to reduce disparities, reduce red tape and improve solutions for the benefit of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3182	I hope I don't take my mouth too full when I say it so that all parties here on the Stortinge agree that the public sector should be modernised and streamlined. The Progress Party is in favour of modernising and improving the efficiency of the public sector. One might almost say that's what we're based on, but we're also very clear that the efficiency improvement should be carried out in an appropriate and cost-effective way, otherwise it's a little bit of a joke – or it's a joke. As stated in the Sundvolden Declaration, the government has objectives: ‘less bureaucracy, regulation and lower taxes’. It's an objective I support, and less bureaucracy is just one of the goals we achieve with the ICT modernisation in the Working and Welfare Set. Modernisation is about being able to provide good welfare services in the core areas. Modernisation is about the fact that when there are simple and unproblematic issues, you should avoid spending unnecessary time on this. Modernisation is about allowing case handlers to spend time helping those who really need it. Modernisation is also about spending less public money on things that can and should be made easier. The Progress Party believes that modernisation of ICT is what should make the public sector a service body for users. Simplifying and red tape the dialogue between the agency and its users will increase the assistance they need, and they will get it faster. We can agree that large public projects need to be managed in a good and targeted way, and then we need to make sure that we get money back for the money we invest. Many major ICT projects have cost far more than the tastes, so we have to ensure quality what we do. Therefore, it is good that the committee has been so unison in its comments on the matter. It is good for the progress of the project that a clear mandate is given from here. Then it will be up to the department and the department itself to deliver a more efficient and modernized user experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3195	Nav has been subjected to a lot of criticism and debate. The matter we are dealing with today is also a consequence of this criticism. Therefore, I would like to start by stating that although the criticism is justified, and that the management of the modernisation of ICT in Nav has been critical, it is not that everything is wrong with Nav. Nav employees do an important and good job every day to help people with different needs, and many of these people are in vulnerable situations and are totally dependent on the help they get through Nav. In addition to meeting these people, Nav manages about a third of the state budget. It is therefore important to ensure that the establishment works as intended, and that the non-functional aspects are revealed. A well-functioning hub depends on good ICT solutions that simplify work for employees and users. It is important to ensure that Nav is able to implement policy decisions and ensure high quality services for its users. A large and comprehensive modernisation of the Nav ICT systems was halted in 2013 when the project was not feasible. There was a lack of governance of cooperation between key stakeholders in the modernisation process. This was duly addressed in the context of the examination by the Stortinget of the Riksrevisions annual report for the financial year 2013. The Christian People's Party will stand behind the Committee's emphasis on the seriousness of this and that this must not be repeated. We have noticed that there is still a risk associated with the implementation of Project 2, but that the government considers this to be acceptable. We take this into account, as the Committee does, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and Nav will make efforts to implement Project 2 within the recommended cost framework. The Christian People's Party therefore expects no further follow-up from the Stortinget, as with Project 1, and that the government will keep the Stortinget informed about the progress of ordinary documents. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party supports the Committee's comment that the Stortinget should be presented with proposals for Project 3 of the Modernisation Programme after it is quality-secured and after the implementation of Project 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3206	In the proposition, I would like to support the launch of Project 2 of the modernisation of ICT solutions in the Working and Welfare Act. Total recommended cost framework including uncertainty provision of 1 316 million. kr. Project 2 is part of a long-term and comprehensive modernisation of the Nav ICT systems and is absolutely necessary to achieve the objectives of the Nav reform. Users need to have access to more digital services and the process needs to be more efficient. Self-helped users, electronic information retrieval and automated processing provide better services to users and reduce the time spent on guidance and processing. In 2012, the Storting agreed to launch the Modernisation Programme. The programme consists of three projects. Project 1 was completed in 2015, but with less functionality than originally planned in 2012. This has been explained in detail in two control hearings and in the documents of the Stortinget, which have also been discussed by others here today. It is worth noting that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has now delivered the revised Project 1 within the cost framework and in a timely manner. The project has provided new system solutions for disability and a new platform for digital self-service solutions has been established on a new hub.no. These solutions have been used, for example: for daily allowances, user transparency on a case-by-case basis and digital submission of application forms. It is a pleasure to see that users use the solutions to a great extent, and that those who work with matters in the store are very satisfied. It is therefore important to launch Project 2 in order to continue this development. The plans I now present in the proposal focus on finding a proper balance between a major need for modernisation, while at the same time there is a great need for progress to be adapted to the risks that always lie in such a large and complicated development. The plans have been through external quality assurance and the recommendations of the external quality assurance body have been included in the management basis of the project. I will follow up on the implementation of the project through frequent reporting and close dialogue with the Director of Labour and Welfare. In addition, the Ministry will obtain external assistance to carry out technical reviews relating to the deliveries from Project 2. Project 2 will develop a reusable decision-making solution for the short-term benefits of parental and one-off maternity benefits. It will provide extended services to users and form a necessary platform for the gradual phasing-out of Infotrygd. In addition, Project 2 will complete work on specialising the performance management, which is important to realise the benefits of the modernisation projects. I am therefore pleased with the support given by the Stortinget today to the proposal. As the proposition shows, I also stress that it is now important to implement Project 2 in a safe and good way. It will provide us with a basis for detailed planning of the further modernisation of a Project 3, where preliminary plans are to develop modernised system solutions in the field of health care and for maternity benefits. I would, of course, also like to keep the Stortinget informed about the implementation of Project 2 in the budget documents. The further modernisation of a possible Project 3 shall be detailed and implemented through external quality assurance in a similar manner before the Stortinget is also submitted with a decision-making basis on the arrangements and financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3223	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3226	Many experience from the Nav meeting is that there is too little time spent by Nav professionals to ensure that applications are correct and consistent with the needs of users. In the automation of simple issues through better ICT solutions that we are now facilitating, there should be greater opportunities for Nav employees to spend more time helping those who need it and need it. It's a unanimous committee that says the ministry has to make sure that the Nav office in each municipality has the necessary time and staff to assist people, that is, ensure this proximity. My question is, can the Council confirm that this is now being prioritised in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3233	Yes, absolutely. That is the whole purpose of ICT modernisation, but also what we use in the recent Nav message on digitisation and self-service solutions, is that better solutions should be provided for users, that employees should be freed from important time to meet users who have more complex needs. So yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3239	As many people have been involved, this is a very big investment, and it'll hopefully also make big savings, so that you can use people in a new and better way. My follow-up question is, could the Council of State try to illustrate what this savings will mean in time, in terms of how many professionals you can take out in individual municipalities, so that you can meet really many of the people we all have experience of today getting too little help for the first meeting, the first application, and get this right from the start?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3244	I think it would be quite demanding on the stand to show how much time per case handler per office this investment could lead to. What we're basing on in our documents is that we get a socio-economic gain by realising the project. What we know is that the better ICT systems and the more digital solutions we have, the more time will be freed from the case handlers to have direct user contact. But as far as I am aware, we have not made any calculations as to how much time per case handler per office you will save. In that case, you have to come back to that, to the extent that it is possible to do that type of calculations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3249	I would like to thank you for your answer. It wasn't how much time per case was essentially, but that we are here facing a situation where a significant amount of professionals can be taken away from trivial tasks and thus meet with the people who need it. So it was a visualization of what we're talking about here of improvements. If there are no improvements here, we will continue with a situation where very many worthy needy people experience a meeting with Nav that is too volatile, and that is based on being within a number of times without actually being presented to their cause, and dealing with their case in such a thorough manner that is crucial to getting on the right track right from the start.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3256	There is no doubt that Nav employees today spend undue time on questions, issues and tasks they had not had to spend time on. Today it is approx. 7 million visits to the Nav offices. Half of them are persons who have questions related to financial benefits. Very many of them need help to understand the information they have received. So throughout this work, it's all about simplifying work and procedures through technical solutions, but also improving the information you can get, also digitally, just to ensure that people get better information, more understandable information, that you get better self-service solutions for users and technical solutions for employees – just to free up important case handler time for users with complex needs that need more time. That's the whole purpose of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3261	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3277	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3284	It's been a long day, so I shouldn't go out unnecessarily. It is a consensual committee that supports the setting in this matter. A few brief words about the background: The Ministry has proposed to change the wording of the folklore law § 11-6. As he says today, it is a condition for the right to work clearance that members receive active treatment or participate in labour law measures. The proposition changes the wording from ‘takes active treatment’ to ‘needs active treatment’ and ‘participants in a job-oriented action’ is changed to ‘needs labour-oriented action’. The background is that the right to social security will once again be able to oversee all the assessments made by the Employment and Welfare Act in accordance with Chapter 11 of the Social Security Act, including in this respect, § 11-6. That social security rights should have that competence was the intention of the legislator at the time the schemes were put in place. In other words, social security was not intended and is contrary to what the Storting had as its intention at the time of the introduction of the redundancy fund scheme. This is a follow-up to a 2014 Civilombodsman question, and a majority of hearing authorities have supported the proposed change. It is proposed that the amendment should apply to all cases where the requirement is raised after the amendment takes effect. Thus, the amendment will not change the conditions for the right to work clearance, but will ensure the legal certainty of those who need the scheme, by restoring full testing competence. It's a consensual committee that's behind the vote, and I'm referring to the comments of the bill change in the proposal and to the committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3299	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3313	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3327	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3334	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3341	The President proposes that the statement on important EU and EEA matters by the Minister for Coordination of EEA Matters and Relations with the EU be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3348	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Abid Q. Raja, on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 1 in the additional setting, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1 in the additional setting, from the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State Auditor’s report requests the National Auditor’s review of the entire sales process, including the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, on the sale of the two F-5 fighter aircraft mentioned in the final report of FD Led IR, dated 11 April 2016.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3374	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for full transparency in the sale of military material by publishing what has been sold, the purchaser, the sum of sales and intended end-use after the sale has been completed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3388	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with legislative proposals to prevent private, foreign commercial operators from buying out unarranged Norwegian defence equipment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3436	It is votated over II and V. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3449	It shall be counted against I, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3471	It's going to wrestle over you. The centre party has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3484	It is added over VI in the setting and II in the additional setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3493	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3500	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging sample to prepare a proposal for a national alcohol policy strategy to ensure that Norway reaches the agreed target of at least a 10 % reduction in harmful alcohol consumption by 2025.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3604	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3613	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3685	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3694	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-26.ana.ud1512e3964	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. If no one asks for the floor, the meeting has been cancelled. - The meeting's been cancelled.
