ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e72	The representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Lene Vågslid and Sonja Mandt, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, now takes the seat. The representative, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e96	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Ingvild Kjerkol, Torgeir Micaelsen, Ruth Grung, Freddy de Ruiter, Tove Karoline Knutsen and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on low-threshold mental health services in all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e101	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we begin on today's map, the President will give the floor to Prime Minister Erna Solberg for a communication to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e110	Thank you for coming to Stortinget today to give me a briefing. I would like to inform you that Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende will not be able to participate in the processing of his budget today, and that the Council of State Elisabeth Vik Aspaker will meet in his place. The reason for this is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is in Beijing today and has meetings with China's Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs. On the basis of a joint declaration, we are now establishing full normalisation in our political and diplomatic relations with China. Since 2010, Norway has not had political contact with China. This has been challenging for us in many international contexts and in many individual cases. It has been demanding for Norwegian business. The fact that we have now been able to normalize our relationship is the result of a long-term and laborious diplomatic work on many levels to restore confidence between our two countries. Norway and China have a long history in common. Norway was one of the first countries to recognise the People's Republic of China, and we built for over 50 years a broad and close cooperation in almost all areas. I am therefore pleased that we are now back in a normal diplomatic and political relationship with China. It has been an important political priority for my government. Now we are looking forward to the opportunities open up to cooperation with China, which is the world's second largest economy and permanent member of the Security Council. It is important for us to cooperate on many of the major international issues we are dealing with – from climate and sustainable goals to many other issues on the international agenda. It also opens up great opportunities for Norwegian business, which has experienced that not having the pull of political cooperation has been a barrier. There is now agreement that we should immediately resume work on a bilateral free trade agreement between our two countries. I would now like to thank all those who have contributed to this work. As I said, it is a laborious, trusting work that is now being done in port, creating a new starting point for relations between Norway and China. It is of great importance for Norwegian and national interests that we get this kind of relationship back in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e125	The President considers it natural to open a comment round and proposes that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e132	I want to acknowledge the government's work in order to restore full normal relations with China. There has been a long-term job, and I think what is being clarified today between Norway and China has shown that it has been necessary to take the time necessary to get a text and an understanding that takes good care of both parties' concerns. I share the Prime Minister's assessment of the opportunities this opens up for Norway, for our business and also for wider societal interests. It is not natural for Norway not to have full diplomatic relations with China in the world we live in today. I want to recognise the diplomats, the officials and women, the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister for the work that has been done, and say that the Workers' Party is also looking forward to us entering a new phase of cooperation with China.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e141	This was joyous news, and there is reason to congratulate the government on the result of an important, long-term and laborious effort to get this done. I also think there is reason to bring Børge Brende's work forward in other large and important processes that have contributed to, among other things. the agreements in Iran and Colombia. This is a foreign policy work that will reap great honor and remain in historical perspective after this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e149	I also want to commend the government for the work that has been done. This is very important, especially at a time when we see that this can open up many new opportunities for Norwegian business – opportunities that have been closed for several years because of the situation you have had. It has been important to use diplomacy and all the opportunities there to try to get the dialogue going again. The most important thing is to launch the political dialogue precisely in order to open up closer cooperation. It is also very gratifying that the Prime Minister says that talks are being started to look at the possibility of a free trade agreement with China, one of the world's largest markets. It's important for business, and it's important for the people. As I said, I want to commend the government and those who have worked on this, for the work that has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e158	I also want to praise the government for the work that has been done. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would say that I am very pleased with the news that the Prime Minister is now coming with. It's important to Norway. Nevertheless, I also want to remind you that in the dialogue that is now going to be between Norway and China, it is important that Norway also dares to be critical to what we think there is reason to be critical of. Nor should we jump under the chair that we know that some relationships with human rights are demanding in China, and it is important that we dare to say so in the dialogue that is coming. But this is a good news. That's a good news for Norway; I also think it's a good news for China. I also think we should be able to refrain from the fact that Foreign Minister Børge Brende is not present during today's budget debate. That budget has become so very good since the Left and Christian People's Party got their mark on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e167	I would also like to take the opportunity to give tribute to the government and all the government's people who have made the effort to normalize such an important relationship. We are also positive about working with free trade agreements. I also want to bring forward what Hareide did. Once we have achieved these contacts, there is also an opportunity for us to promote human rights and the values that we have not been promised through dialogue in recent years. I believe that Norway should continue to have its ideals in relation to countries that have governance and conduct human rights violations that it is important for us to point out, and use every opportunity to do so. And we see a world where we have an American president moving more and more away from some international agreements where China is now becoming more important, for example. in the field of climate. I hope that now we have normalized the relationship with China, can also enable us to use that contact to exert pressure against a major power in a climate work for which it is important that the great powers are also involved and fighting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e176	I found that to be the basis for congratulating all those who have been involved in a long-standing effort to normalize Norwegian relations with the world's largest country, China. It is important for us to be able to have normal political and diplomatic links with them. It is important for cooperation in a range of areas – climate, poverty reduction and areas where China is central to world policy. It is important for Norwegian interests, which can again flourish even more than they have in recent years. It's also important because it gives arenas to deal with those questions where we have a different view than China. Where we are critical of their policies, we must be present in common arenas and have the possibility of having bilateral meetings and normal contacts. I would like to add that, in the days ahead, we will probably have the opportunity to go into the background material for the work done here – the joint statements that form the basis for this. I have argued that in that area there are no appointments in what we would otherwise have laid down as a political standard for our view of China's policy when it comes to human rights, the environment or other things, and that we will continue to act in the same way as we do to all other countries in the world, on the basis of universal human rights and the values we stand for. That is what I think – that we will continue to boast about what is right, to work together on common challenges and to address critical issues. And I mean, as the representative, Mr Hareide, it is acceptable that the Foreign Minister does not come to the budget debate. The budget had not been better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e187	The Greens and I are joining the ranks of congratulations. This is good for Norway, and it is good that we have a government and bureaucrats in the EEAS who have achieved such a result. Having an open and normal dialogue with the world's largest country and, perhaps, all the most important political actors are of course extremely important. China is increasingly exerting political influence on more and more of the world's policies, especially in its own neighbourhood, but also elsewhere. China is the world's factory. China is leading technologically, at the same time at the expense of emissions at the 1950s level in their own country. China is an increasingly interesting counterpoint in the climate policy of the United States that we might see in Trump's spirit. All of this is very good, and then – as many people have been involved – it becomes very interesting to see the terms of this agreement. The starting point for Norway’s poor relationship with China was the Nobel Prize for Liu Xiaobo in 2010. He's still in prison. His wife, Liu Xia, is still under house arrest, and it's an important premise that Norway maintains the position we've always had and should have on human rights issues. But this is a very good day, and we now have a normal channel to talk to China about these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e196	It was a joyous news to get just before Christmas. Congratulations to all those who have worked on this. I fully share the Prime Minister's assessment of what it means for Norway that the relationship between Norway and China is now normalised. It's right, as it's pointed out, that we have a long history in common. I hope that now means that business is getting closer to China. I hope we get a closer interaction with China in climate policy, and I hope – as others have pointed out – that we can also point out what we think is important in terms of human rights. There is no doubt that there is still a job to be done in that area. A happy news just before Christmas – we thank the government for that, and we thank everyone who has contributed to getting this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e205	Then the Prime Minister gets the floor for a closing comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e210	I would like to thank you for the comments and support for the work that has been done. In the past, we had an MR process going on. It is natural for us to discuss and review it again as we have now normalized the process, but for the time being we have to note that the most important thing was to get a process where it was politically possible to talk together. There are no agreements other than the joint statement agreement published today by the Chinese authorities and Norwegian Foreign Service, so there will be transparency around these discussions. In my opinion, it consists in noting what has been Norwegian China policy for many years, and it has been important for us. We have been concerned that it is not that we should grant concessions, but build confidence again. Trust building has been important in recent years in order to rebuild interaction and cooperation with China.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e219	The President proposes that the Prime Minister's communication be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 13.45 for The Storting's Christmas ounce. Furthermore, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e243	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e254	Today we're going to distribute 189 billion. on important and good measures to prevent and repair health. If we do not agree on everything across the board, at least in the Committee we agree on the level of the budget. The government's proposal, the final result, and the Workers' Party and the Centre are all delivering a budget of 189 billion. kr. We talk all the time about creating the patient's health care. In it, we add to involve the patient as a partner in the development of the service. This is not where the parties stand together. The Working Party and the Centre do not support such an approach, on the patient’s health service, and have therefore chosen to be outside of some comments on this. The Progress Party is concerned with increased user involvement and increased focus on relatives, and we strongly support the use of experience consultants at all levels. We think new and believe this increases the possibility of achieving the goal of creating the patient's healthcare. The Progress Party went to the choice of more non-governmental organisations, shorter hospital queues and shorter waiting times, and fewer corridor Asians. We have delivered this and continue to deliver with this budget. Furthermore, the Progress Party went to elections on a escalating plan for drugs. This is going well, and we see some good results of this. At the same time, there are still too many municipalities that do not seem to want to give priority to this work. The municipalities have been given clear leadership, new orders, a number of earmarked means they can use, as well as a lot of fresh means to follow the will of the government and the majority of the population. The party also opted for a reinforced effort for mental health and health services, as well as a stepping-up plan for the rehabilitation field. For mental health and health stations, we've stepped up by well over 1 billion. kr. This has given us many new health sisters, community psychologists and ACT-like teams, and the escalation plan for habilitation and rehabilitation starts next year. Over the course of our three years, we have been involved in raising the health field by more than 40 billion. kr, and very good work is done all over the country. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who each day provide good services for our citizens. They often experience jaws and criticisms because we have great ambitions and desires for the population, and because it is important for us to be able to provide equivalent services to everyone. But without the employee's efforts, it does not keep good intentions and transfers of money from Stortinget. The Health Committee held consultations on the health budget and, as usual, was very interested in the consultation. What struck me was that the majority of the hearing bodies would have earmarked funds, legislation or norm for the services in the municipality. If we add up all of these desires, we see that there is not a single area of care that is specifically or financially desired. When political parties continue to promote the same requirements, this cannot be seen in any other way than the strict belief that the State should assume responsibility. And that's what's still happening. The government has promoted, and received a majority for, several legislative changes that bind the municipalities, and a lot of grant funds and earmarked funds are used to achieve the desired effect, but the differences are still too large between municipalities. In this budget, too, there are several earmarked funds for specific investments, both continuations and new ones. One of the new initiatives is a new programme for public health in municipalities with a special focus on children and the mental health of young people. The Progress Party is concerned that mental health is increasingly integrated into school and kindergarten and supports this programme. The Progress Party welcomes the continuation of efforts to mobilise towards solitude. We know a lot about how harmful loneliness can be for individuals, both in mental health and physical health. In this connection, I would like to highlight Frogn Municipality, which has its own programme to capture the elderly who through a long life have had the same spouse, and who now experience becoming a widow or a widower. I have even looked closely at how fast it can go down with the well-being, sleep, nutrition and health of the survivor. For some, such a situation could also lead to increased use of drugs and/or alcohol. There will be a lot to pick up for all parties to prevent this. If we're all going to be able to provide everyone with a good health service, we still have to think about new things. We have to use the resources and the money to make sense, so we get it right. That's why sometimes we have to make changes. Making changes is the most demanding thing. Everyone wants more, but no one likes to change anything. In this budget – as in our previous budget – we increase efforts in all areas, while improving, renewing and simplifying, for the benefit of all users of our healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e284	The Christmas gift from the government and the supporting parties to chronically ill, disabled and disabled people who charge these groups with an extra cost of NOK 2 000 a year, now just over the New Year, is in stark contrast to the large tax cuts and other reliefs such as: The billionaires in Norwegian society have been given this government. So my question to the representative of the Progress Party is simply: Where does the political heritage of John I. Alvheim become?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e291	The political legacy of Alvheim we're working on here today. Alvheim was incredibly concerned with justice, and even the Workers' Party writes in their remarks that they are aware that today's system is unfair. You can choose to sit still and see that many thousands of serious sick people who need physiotherapy, who depend on physiotherapy, have a higher proportion, despite having a poor economy, while others who are in exactly the same situation get it completely free of charge. So this is about making the offer equally available to everyone in the same situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e298	When the state budget was presented, both the Medical Association and the Medical Association went into a common chronicle and warned of a very weak hospital budget. They said that this is the first step on the road to a two-part healthcare system in Norway. In the government party's negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, this hospital budget was extremely weak. In the South Hospital they now planned to cut 200 mills next year. At Sjukehuset Inland they also plan too large a cut, and the Medical Association of Oslo University Hospitals states that they are very concerned about the feasibility of the 2017 budget proposal, and they believe that the efficiency requirement and the related performance requirements seem unrealistic. My question to the Progress Party is: Is the Progress Party probably with the health budget that is now being adopted for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e307	The most important thing for the Advance Party when we went to the elections was to raise the economy of hospitals. We wanted to lift it a lot, because we had to bring down the waiting times, we had to get rid of the corridors, and we had to get fewer queues. Then all of the budgets that we have submitted have been considerably higher than the red-green stuff over eight years. So if this budget is going to be a big problem, then we've had eight red-green very problematic hospital years. We may all want money into heaven for the hospitals, but it's a significant boost this year as in all the other years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e314	The government and the majority of the population do not lack money. There's never been as much money at your disposal as it is now, the question is just how to spend it. For example, the women's clinic at Ahus says: Now that they have to send out several of those who have born, very much earlier, as a result of the representative's party and government calling efficiency. So they believe that there are 500 of the birthers who are going to be sent home even earlier than today when we know how serious this can be for a lot of people. I think it's completely horrifying that it's no more important than tax havens. I want to ask the representative: what makes the Progress Party think it makes sense to save money on newborns and mothers who have barely finished their birth before they leave the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e323	Our hospitals operate today as they did under the red-green. They are responsible for patients and their safety, and they are responsible for what is good health care. No hospital sends out patients if they think it's irresponsible. It would be contrary to their mission. So it's like every year as long as I can remember, and as long as I've been on the Stortinget, there's been some fear in budgetary proceedings that you have to make some cut or some change. This is nothing new. Hospitals are in transition. They have to think new, and they have to work differently all the time. It's not about cutting patient treatment, but it's about making things more sensible and using resources in a more correct way. We know that there are many bottlenecks, and that there is a lot of resources to save on working more rationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e330	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e336	The working party is a member of a strong, equivalent health service. The experience of our modern history shows that we get the best out of it when we are offensive and willing to change on behalf of our common owner and driven health care. I am pleased that, in our alternative budget, we are precisely giving priority to this objective. In our alternative budget, we point out, among other things: on good public health and a wide range of measures around it, a strengthened hospital economy, a stronger municipal economy than the government provided, faster expansion of the provision of care for the elderly and digitisation of healthcare provision around the country, as main priorities. Because, as many people know, good health is unfortunately different. Among the good averages in Norway, which show that yes, Norwegians’ health is good, there are considerable differences. People with high education and income live the longest and have the best health. They are more physically active and eat healthier, and there are several studies that suggest that people with so-called large resources, human and economic, get better treatment when they first get sick. Therefore, good health is mainly created outside our hospitals. How we feel today, how easy it is to make healthy choices, and how easy it is to get help quickly when you have something to basking with in life, physically or mentally, has a lot to say about how our health will be tomorrow. Therefore, tomorrow’s health challenges – the extent to which we are able to create a more equivalent healthcare service – are closely linked to how we organise the rest of our society: cultural and sporting services, meeting places – in the family, the community and the community – natural experiences and the kind of food we eat. For this reason, the Workers' Party's alternative budget for health includes a number of initiatives ranging from lifelong action for the elderly, the cultural walking stick, upgrading sports facilities and voluntary organisations, at all events a major effort to develop and be offensive in the way we organise the community in Norway, because we know that it also creates the best health. It is said that Norwegian editors could face a real choice every week: Should they fill the paper this week with so-called usual news, or should they print all the letters and e-mails they receive from former patients who would thank the hospital and the health staff for the amazing help they received at the hospital when they needed treatment? Of course, they do not choose the last, so the headlines and the political debate are marked by what is not working. I want to establish that the hospitals, even after three years with the Right Party government, are of high quality. But that's not the whole story, of course, about Norwegian hospitals. Unfortunately, for many patients, there are still errors, poor communication and poor cooperation within the healthcare system. That is why we believe it is important to focus on the development of management and culture that places patients at the centre of the work processes in hospitals. We support the development of quality-based patient profiles for several patient groups; we support the work of digitisation in hospitals to facilitate communication between patients and treatment providers and to document what is necessary. But we know that all of this is not enough. Several older people in society, several older people in society, increased burden of disease and new, fantastic medical advances force us people to make more real choices: if we are to maintain and create a more equivalent healthcare service, we must also be willing to pay for this. Therefore, this line change between the Advancement Party and Kjersti Toppe has already shown that there are fundamental differences in how to spend the large amount of money in the health budget. In addition, in our alternative budget we have a wide range of proposals for improvements in the elderly policy, with particular emphasis on the offer of demented patients, but this is taken up by other speakers from us. I will conclude by saying that we are surprised that this budget harvest has been largely about a few things, and that no more than the opposition parties have stood on the barricades for a better health and care budget than what we finally got after the settlement partners and the government agreed last Saturday. With this I address the proposals the Labour Party is promoting alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e355	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e360	In the autumn of 2015, the representative Mikalsen told the NRK that he was concerned about the issues in 2017 with the Right in Government. But to be honest, now we see that what people really should worry about, is the Workers' Party, which in 2017 increases self-interest 2 for people who are totally dependent on physiotherapy, but fall off the diagnostic list. There are patients who are chronically ill, ME-sick, they have muscle and skeletal disorders, and they get a supplement of 722 kr more than the government proposes next year. The Labour Party itself has said in comments in the State budget that they think it is an unfair arrangement. Now the Workers' Party is making an unfair scheme even more unfair. What does the representative Mikalsen think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e365	It's true that in our alternative arrangement around the excesses, in order to use the government's own expression, it increases by $40, based on today's level of self-interest 2. The reason why we do that and reverse the proposals for lowering the ceiling proposed by the government in its budget is that we believe that the proposal to remove the diagnostic list – which has had quite strong reactions from very many teams – is how many individual patient groups during the night are affected by going from NOK 0 to NOK 2000 in self-participation 2, is too weakly justified in the sense that the screening systems for patients exposed to it are too weak. That is why, in our comments, we have asked for other proposals, and the government will come back with a review of the matter. Pending this, we propose that all proposals be set at zero, and that today's system be maintained for the government to promote better proposals for protection schemes for people with high needs and poor finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e370	It's interesting to hear Micaelsen's so-called burning involvement in the care of the elderly. I record that the representative said after the election that he had failed in the care of the elderly and did not do what he should to ensure the elderly a decent, safe and good care. It's interesting that after eight years with the red-green so that nothing had happened about reorganization or new ways of thinking and doing things in the care of the elderly. Now we have a government that's trying out new methods and looking at new possibilities to do it, and we have the Workers' Party, which is opposed and which last year said that maybe you should have a little more ear-marked means. But this budget removes the system of testing one state funding and one with earmarked funds. Then the representative must answer me about how he thinks it makes sense. Is it more important to have the municipal sign on the wall than to provide good care services to elderly and nursing people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e375	No, the last one isn't important in principle. The Labour Party relies on all those who, in the government's own consultation round, strongly warned against this system on which the Advance Party has been given the government. Obviously, what has happened must be that Bård Hoksrud, Siv Jensen and others have been persuaded by others in the government to carry out something else that they know is certainly not a very good idea, is bureaucratic and demeaning – an unexplained situation for a large number of municipalities that made the municipality by municipality, which could initially imagine participating in this bureaucratic experiment of Bård Hoksrud and others in the government, took the papers under their arms and ran as far away as they could, and made decisions in the municipalities by municipality and saying no, it should be in this way as they were documented, we will not be involved. The Labour Party is a supporter of innovation in both the organisation and funding of elderly care in Norway, but in order to do so properly, we need access to government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e382	All parties in this room have said that they want to reduce abortion rates in Norway. The Amathea Foundation is an advisory service providing free guidance to women and couples who have been unplanned for pregnancy. In Norway, the Foundation is solely responsible for providing guidance services as its main task. In addition, preventive health work is carried out from a public health perspective. They participated in 2009 and 2010 and arranged a day of action against sexual harassment in Norway. What is the reason of the Workers' Party to cut to just this organisation that has the purpose that everyone in this Chamber has agreed to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e387	I am not saying that the representative of Bollestad is among those who sometimes point out that those of us who are a strong supporter of women's exclusive right to self-determined abortion within the given provisions, that those who defend it are not followers of various abortion prevention measures. That's not how I perceived the representative. But there's unfortunately someone out there trying to create that impression. I myself am among those who believe that everyone who gets into an unhappy situation and is involuntarily pregnant is in a very difficult situation and often needs all the support, all the conversations and all the care we can give each other. That's why this isn't, on the question of the representative, something more hocuspocus than that we keep what we think is a pretty rusty grant, also to the Amathea Foundation. With our proposal for an alternative budget, we are back at the level it was at when the Stoltenberg II government left the offices, and today's government went in. Among other things, we have Priority is different by supporting e.g.: the maintenance of Klara Klock, a web service where young people can address different issues in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e394	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e400	It's approaching Christmas. Many of us associate Christmas with the film "Three Nuts to Cinderella". I think that in the agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, three quite magical nuts fell down. The first nut is a big boost for voluntary work in the field of drugs and mental health. Strengthening the budget by over 100 million. For voluntary and non-profit activities, life will lead to a lot of activity and many projects, which can now flourish – several street layers for addicts, more support for street hospitals, to the Out Road and to important work for the prevention of suicide and self-harm, to name a few. Nut No. 2 is the same magic. Our four parties have strengthened preventive health work for children and young people by over 1 billion. DKK in four budgets. It means several open doors to the school health service. Only in 2014 and 2015 have we seen a growth of 292 health oyster farms, in stark contrast to the decline of 9 health oyster farms in 2013. We have turned a downward spiral and speeded up the ability of municipalities to hire health sisters, physiotherapists, midwives, psychologists and doctors – all in order to build safe children who learn to master the challenges of life and who can get early help when needed. Safe children learn more at school. That's important, because we know that the greatest inequality in health goes between those who have completed their education and those who are without education and jobs. Nut No. 3 could have been a little harder to crack — an increased efficiency requirement in the specialist healthcare service, resulting in a slightly lower strengthening of hospital budgets than proposed by the government. However, the 2017 hospital budget equips hospitals for the future and facilitates a higher growth than the demographic development suggests. Our government, in all four of its proposals for a government budget, has facilitated higher patient treatment growth than the red-green government has adopted through its eight. Even with a slightly higher efficiency requirement, it is budgeted with an activity growth of 2.1 pst. in 2017. That's about what the previous government decided on. If it is the case that the Workers' Party believes this is a bad hospital budget for 2017, it is a tough sentence on their own willingness to prioritize hospitals as they had a majority in Stortinget and had the opportunity to give their full priority. In the right, we are proud of the results we can refer to in the health field so far, and as the last budget in this period provides the basis for continuing. Divicious people in hospitals have contributed to a 12-day reduction in average waiting time. There are now 80,000 fewer health cows than in 2013. Patients are more secure through their cancer package, and now the same mental health and drug-dependent methodology is being developed. Improved care and faster help for mental illness are of the Right’s main priorities. Under red-green rule, we saw a very unfortunate down-priority of the drug and mental health field. The earmarking of funds for important care services in municipalities was removed. Hospitals were no longer asked to give priority to drugs and mental health. Drug addicts were waiting in long treatment queues, while good institutions were laid down – much because the red-greens have an ideological allergy to the ability of private individuals to deliver good and proper care for the public’s sake. We don't see the world like that. For us, it is about finding the best possible solution for those who need help, and respecting that those who need help need freedom to choose. No matter how ill a person is, he should not be deprived of the possibility of self-determination. For addicts, the outcome of treatment may depend entirely on the choice of treatment. The working party is talking about free treatment choices. They almost ridicule the fact that 1,000 patients have so far taken advantage of the scheme — but there are 1,000 people, with their unique needs and their desire to choose where they want treatment. I would like to see further escalation of free treatment options and would like to work for it. I think many people notice that the Workers' Party will deprive patients of this right. In the care of the elderly, we see that municipalities take a force to build enough space for the future. After we changed the grant scheme, by the state taking half the bill, it is now planned for three times as many sick homes as under the red-green ones. We have invested heavily in the competence of the health and care services in the municipalities and will grant 1.2 billion next year. for the enhancement of competence. The future institutional and care-needed residents shall meet with a high level of professional competence of their employees. Now municipalities must become more offensive in meeting the needs of people with dementia. We need faster growth in the number of day activities places, and we need better housing for those who need accommodation. In 2017, we invest more in health than in previous years. We have to keep doing that in the years to come, but at the same time, we have to keep getting more health out of the resources we have. Five minutes is fast. The phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which is part of the budget proposal, will be discussed in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e438	The red-green government also increased the hospital budgets – one should almost not believe it when one hears the representatives of the government parties – and it was given control of the economy in hospitals, which is the most important premise for managing health care resources. So the Right has run from its own promises to the patients in the hospitals by not fulfilling its own election promises for a reinforcement of up to 12 billion. kr during the period. We only have to admit that when it's the last budget to be submitted. In addition, the cooperation parties in Stortinget are negotiating to cut well over 400 million. for hospitals. This constitutes the performance requirement for many health businesses alone, i.e. the difference between further operations and cuts. Measured against record high oil money consumption, the needs of hospitals with several older and new precious medicines, is the representative satisfied with the hospital budget provided by the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e445	Both the Labour Party and the Right had promises of numbers before the election, but both parties also had promises of results. The working party went to the election of one million more treatments and investigations at Norwegian hospitals in 2017. That million reached our government already in 2015. Now there are 80,000 fewer queues, and the average waiting time is reduced by 12 days. This shows that our policy is working. We are most concerned about the effect of the money we grant; patients are concerned about the results we reach. I met many patients, as the representative Micaelsen also said in his post, who are very pleased with how Norwegian hospitals work. If the Labour Party believes that the results in Norwegian hospitals are not good enough, I would like to listen to that, but we have managed to reverse both waiting times and health cows, which their government did not succeed when they were sitting for eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e454	The government's budget proposal says about the efficiency reform that will amount to 700 million. kr for healthcare professionals. But then the government proposes to return well 500 million. kr, so that the real requirement for efficiency improvement is 177 million. kr. The reason they're going back again is because the government thinks that without the hospitals, they're not going to make the necessary investments in construction and equipment. When the Right on the Storting nevertheless has a different view, where they allowed almost up against the same amount in cut, my question is: Why my right in government that such a cut will go beyond the necessary investments in construction, installations and hospitals, while the Right on the Stortingt thinks it's quite fine?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e459	Right on Stortinget does not believe that it should not be invested in hospitals in the years to come, and that is also the case in 2017. There are large investments in the 2017 budget for both hospital buildings and medical equipment. This is how the results our government delivers, with the hospital economy we have set up for four years, yield very good results. We get down the health cows, we get down the waiting times, and at the same time we see that hospitals have the opportunity to invest in both new construction and medical equipment. That is the most important thing about politics – that we produce results that benefit patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e464	One of the things I find difficult to accept is that representatives of the government parties waive responsibility for the consequences of the cuts that now have to be carried out. I'm sitting with papers from the Inland Hospital in my county, where mental health is being cut, there are fewer beds, and average bedtime for voluntarily admitted patients is being reduced, leading to an increase in the rate of cleaning. It's the economy that forces it. It's full of childhood and youth psychiatry. They have capacity utilisation in daily locations of 99,7 p.m. It's said that then there's no room for anything. SV has made proposals for 1 billion. SEK more for hospitals, and also SEK 200 million. D to an escalation plan for lowthreshold services in psychiatry in municipalities. What is the reason why the representative of the Right believes that tax havens are more important than such bets?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e471	SV as far as I know, eight years in government. In fact, the hospital economy that our government provides has, over the course of our four years, added up to a higher level of activity than the SV itself has been able to contribute to the government. It has produced good results. In the case of mental health and drug abuse, government SV helped to remove the rule that instructs health businesses to give higher priority to this growth. What would have happened if our government hadn't reintroduced this rule? It is incredibly important that we require health companies to give priority to drugs and mental health. Then there has been a distortion related to outpatient treatment in mental health, which is important, and which is based on patients’ need to get treatment closer to where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e478	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e483	When we're aware of the dramatic conditions children are living in in large parts of the world right now, not least when we look at what's happening in Aleppo, what we're now discussing and concentrating on in our own country may feel a little hollow. But even though we have it very well here in many ways, and many grow up in a safe environment, unfortunately, not everyone does it, either in our country. It is said that a good childhood lasts life. But one of the most important things we politicians can do is help our children who get a bad start to life, so that they can actually get a better start. In the government's submitted budget proposal, the Christian People's Party lacks a clear child's focus. The Christian People's Party wants a stronger investment in children and young people – in children and young people's mental health, and further to combat violence and abuse against children. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that, through the budgetary agreement with the cooperation parties, we have achieved a further 150 million. kr to the school health services and health centres in the municipalities. Along with the 100 million. kr that the Left and Christian People's Party received last year, we have secured 250 million. kr to be earmarked for 2017 purposes. This will mean significantly fewer closed doors in the school health service. It will mean that more children and young people will have someone to talk to when the pain grows on the inside of their shirt. I'm glad that through the budget agreement, we were able to save the grant scheme for mental health in schools. We put resources in place to work to bring down the unnecessary use of antidepressants and sleeping pills among children and young people. We secured resources for a comprehensive and cross-sectoral strategy for mental health for children and young people, which will be an important pre-work for the economically obliging escalation plan for children and young people's mental health that a unanimous increase has ordered from the government, with the background of a Christian People's Party proposal 8. Such a lifting, through a concrete escalation plan, can help to change the challenge picture that we see today, where there are many who have a major health challenge because they are mentally struggling. Violence and abuse against children are some of the most cruel and dark in our society. Children and young people in our own country are exposed to serious things that it is difficult for us others to imagine. That's a lot more than we think. On average, one student in each class is subjected to violence and abuse. That's something we all get affected by, and we have to do what we can to avert and prevent our children and young people. The budgetary agreement earmarked funds for medical investigations at the State Children’s Hospital. The statistics show that under 20 pst. of these children receive medical examinations today. This statistic has to be reversed. The demand for social pediatricians must be central to all child services as important as the identification and prevention of further violence. We have also had an impact on the provision of treatment to young people who are currently either receiving limited help or being placed with the victims of the day. It is unsustainable, and it is therefore very important to do something about these challenges. It's almost Christmas. Many young people and children are horrified at the exact time of their children's celebrations, because instability on the way home is so exacerbated when Mom or Dad drink. I am pleased that, through the budget agreement, we have in recent years put in a significant boost to the non-profit and voluntary sector – that there are people who meet the families behind the fine facade, behind the expensive fronts, behind the fine Christmas cards; organisations that provide greater stability, help and treatment for families who need it all, most of all – but most of all for the children who are now struggling for Christmas, precisely because it is so unstable at home. Now I hope that the Directorate will also take the political signal that this is a crazy policy. Ideal actors shall have a large place in Norwegian alcohol provision. I'm addressing the proposals that the Christian People's Party has with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e506	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e513	As the representative was involved, perhaps one of our most important social responsibilities is to protect children from abuse and care failure. When we work in drug treatment, it turns out that 90 pst. of the heavy addicts who have chosen the drug as a fugitive from a childhood they do not master, and very many have been subjected to abuse. Therefore, it is important both to prevent more people from being exposed, as the representative was inside his post, and also to ensure that those who are exposed are followed up in a fine and correct manner. The number of children interviewed in children’s homes has increased dramatically. In 2013 it was 227, in 2015 it was 432 and this year, so far, 595. There have also been questions about funding, that it does not help us to give all the medical examination they require, either for forensic reasons or for the purposes of further treatment. What does the representative think is the right way to deal with funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e518	Children who are subject to arrest and are interrogated at the State Children’s Hospital shall be offered medical examinations. The Christian People's Party believes that financial responsibility should lie in the health sector, as part of their care for-responsibility. In other words, all children who are subjected to violence and abuse and who are interrogated in children’s homes will receive medical examinations. Regardless of whether the police ask for it or not, this shall be part of the children’s routine. If we are to be able to detect violence and assault, those who are able to see this, in a completely different way than just talking to the children, must actually be part of this work. It is a caring responsibility in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e524	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party stood for a similar line when we treat the National Health and Hospital Plan up against local hospitals and emergency facilities. Therefore, I was a little surprised when I saw that the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget has also increased the efficiency requirement for hospitals by 0.1 pst., which I assume is approximately 100 million. kr – and which is in fact contrary to the advice given by the Ministry that hospitals now need funds to invest in buildings and installations. I know that the representative is in charge of the Southern Hospital, and there it is planned to cut 200 years' worth of work in the next few years, and then 200 more years later. My question is: how does the Christian People's Party assess this with a hospital economy against the plans that are leading for example. The South Hospital now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e531	First, I would like to say that the 200 posts that it was about to cut down in Health South, it was a long time before the Christian People's Party said we would cut 0.1 pst. in the budget. There's something Health South has done independently of the Christian People's Party budget. With regard to the efficiency that the Christian People's Party has put in, I refer to the Medicine of the Day, which shows something about the fact that growth has not always been linked to patient treatment. The Christian People's Party continues with a further 1,888 billion. kr, which the government had in its budget. However, the growth of the administration — if you go to regional health businesses — has been staggering, and the level of leadership has increased considerably. I actually believe that the Christian People's Party, along with the Center Party, is willing to take a reduction in administrative tasks in regional health companies. And the Christian People's Party expects the efficiency to be improved there and not in the patient's treatment, or near the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e538	I and SV also hope that the representative Bollestad is right about that. But I've gone through numbers from all the hospitals, which show that the patient treatment is going to be cut – both by the cut that the government put in, and by the cut that was made in the deal. I believe the Christian People's Party on the commitment to both addiction, child and psychiatry. But it is clear that when it is cut in the specialised treatment of this, the pressure will also rise locally. SV has a strong commitment to doing this locally, both on drugs, on psychiatry and on caring for vulnerable children with earmarked funds. The question then is whether the representative believes that the priority taken in the conciliation, with cuts in hospital economy, is not going to affect any of these vulnerable patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e543	The Christian People's Party passed on the government's proposal of SEK 1,888 billion. kr. Of them, we moved something from effort-driven financing – we disagreed with the government in it – to the framework, and we earmarked 250 million. Precisely for children and the mental health of young people in specialist health services. I also find it a challenge that there will not be such an increase as the Christian People's Party had thought. However, I believe that we can put political governance in place that we do not expect this to be a reduction in patient treatment, and we can put political governance in place to cut administrative challenges in regional health businesses. I think that's quite possible when we read the Medisin of the Day, which has an example of the formidable growth that has been in the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e555	The fasitite after the government's first full fiscal year is here. 10,700 more men of the north have been poor, and the rich have never been richer. It shows the statistical central agency’s published statistics on economic disparities from the 2015 budget, the first budget of the government from the bottom. The number is clear: the government's policy has not succeeded in abolishing Difference Norway. Differences in society have increased. The richest percentage has increased its share of total wealth by almost 1 percentage point in just one year. At the same time, 10,700 more people were below the poverty line, of whom 4,600 were children. When the majority in this room pursue a policy that allows for the social distribution of economic resources and income in society, it also allows social health differences to develop. One accepts even greater differences in health, that health is still to be even more unequally distributed between communities. It is now ten years since the red-green government provided the big message of national strategy to cushion social health inequalities. This strategy has not been followed up by the current Minister of Health and Welfare. When Minister of Finance Siv Jensen held his budget for 2017, public health or prevention was not mentioned in one word. Both the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health and Health and the public health figures from the Government Party boast of how many more patients are being treated in hospitals now than before, but is this the right focus? Should we not instead be ashamed that we are unable to prevent better? The health policy of the government should be measured by the number of patients in need of treatment, the decline in e.g. new cases of the major public diseases such as diabetes, heart and car diseases, chronic lung diseases and cancer, which they have done to prevent people from needing medical help from the health care system, from the school clinic, from the hospital’s supervisor or from specialists, that they have managed to reduce the accidents and reach the target of reducing the harmful use of alcohol and tobacco use, but they do not. A decrease in waiting times and the effectiveness of hospital operations is measured, how many patients a person is able to treat with the least possible use of resources. One is measured by the increase in health station budgets, but one does not measure how good it is to create a society and a policy that reduces the need for health care. The Central Party believes that the goal of health policy must never be to treat the most possible patients or set new records in the reduction of the day-to-day situation. The aim of health policy is to create the best possible health for all. Diagnosis and treatment of disease are important societal tasks, but disease prevention is even more important. Primary feeder construction is important to the Center Party. This means measures that prevent the occurrence of disease and reduce the risk of disease. In the 2017 budget, the Centre Party is therefore committed to actions that promote a health-friendly society. So we prioritise one hour of physical activity every day in school. Therefore, we will reintroduce the free fruit and green scheme and introduce a free school meal for a class step from the autumn of 2017. That's why we're investing in outdoor life. That is why we are increasing the taxes on alcohol and tobacco and reducing the tax-free regime. Secondary prevention and the introduction of measures to detect disease early, before harm is done, are also important. This year, we have also contributed ear-marked funds to a municipal mental health escalation plan in the municipalities. That is why we are increasing the rate of contribution to municipalities, so that more people with dementia can be offered a day-time space. So we give more money to several midwives in the municipalities. Even if we give priority to public health and community health services, we don't cut funds to hospitals for next year, as the plural parties do. We're strengthening the hospital budget. The centre will be close to the services, for both hospital services, ambulances and medical services. We mean what we said in connection with the National Health and Hospital Plan. 5 minutes is fast, and I have to point to the setting where the center part is talking about its priorities. And then I'm going to deal with the two loose suggestions that we're making today on health records. I will also take up my suggestions from the Center Party in the configuration dialog.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e576	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e583	The centre party had a document 8 proposal where they said 25 pst. of the overall care sector, shall be operated and organised as non-profit-making activities. The Central Party claims that it secures local communities, strengthens democracy and builds bridges between citizens and the public. But I am very surprised that, in a comment on the state budget position under the Research and Innovation section, the Centre says that ‘it is only the public that can make comprehensive assessments of what is needed by society’. It is precisely against the establishment of NPISHs where society does not meet the need. It's e.g. the ‘Wayen Ut’, the ‘Church Bymition’, etc. How can the Central Party explain this overall inconsistency that only the State can assess health needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e588	That is the comment I believe the representative misunderstands on purpose. There is a note about research and the balance between enterprise and free research, etc. That comment doesn't have to be understood so that we don't recognise the ideal sector. Nor is there anything in the comment that refers to the non-profit sector. Otherwise, I would say that our proposal to set a target for the non-profit sector in Norway was a proposal for a representative who actually got multiples in the Stortinget, including the Right and the Advance Party, that the government would come back with a case to the Stortinget to set a target number. That's what I thought was very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e593	It was interesting to listen to the representatives of Toppe's post. Everyone agrees, of course, that it's about preventing and preventing people from getting sick. We very much agree on that. But the Central Party is trying to represent itself as the major defender of local democracy and believes it is important that municipalities are allowed to provide care for the elderly. But I feel that every time the local authorities don't do what the Center Party wants, the Central Party would like to override. To use images: if there are three children in the sandbox, one is the state, and the other two are the municipalities, and the two municipal children don't do what the state child Toppe often represents at the Center Party, you shouldn't be allowed to be local democracy anymore and get permission to do as you like. I see fines with proposals from the Central Party in this room where they want to override the local politicians and override local democracy. Then I have to ask the question: why is it so critical to be involved in the government funding of the care of the elderly that would ensure good, dignified and safe care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e598	Thank you for a long question. First of all, I must honestly say that I thought that here the representative is talking about himself and the Progress Party, which is the biggest defender of local democracy, but which is often going in from the state and is going to try. It's actually quite wrong that the Center Party has had a lot of suggestions on that. The representative can read our budget. One can read our priorities, and we give the least possible ear marking. We'll use the ear tags when necessary. When it comes to government funding, it's like we're in line with most people. No one out there wants government funding for the care of the elderly. There are hardly any municipalities that want it, even if a lure with money. The reason is that there is nothing in health policy that is more local than care for the elderly, where one goes into the homes of people, where one helps people – clearly it has to be managed locally, and it will be fought for by the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e608	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e613	December 2016 has been a good month for future health, especially for people’s health. A lot can be done outside the hospital. We have decided that the cigarette packages and the snuff packages will be neutral, and the actors in the daily food industry have agreed to reduce the sugar content. There is also agreement from the outset to reduce the salt content. This is a feather in the hat for the Minister of Health, who has been captain of the team to get the proposals here and the agreements. The left's mantra through four budget debates here in the main hall has been popular — health promotion, prevention and early intervention. Health care providers and health centres have been exemplary in the last four years, as several have pointed out – 292 new ones in the last four years, compared with 9 in the minus in 2013. There's a difference of over 300. The change factory is securely located on the State budget on a proposal from the Left. We all need to hear from the Children's Protection Professionals and the Psychiatrics Professionals. What they've been through is not a joy, but it's a pleasure to see the change they're making. There have been several psychologists in the municipalities, and more have to be. From 2020 onward, they are required by law, together with, inter alia, ergot monkeys. They are needed to bring about the necessary innovation and change in primary health services. Still, there are a few hundred municipalities that don't have a health center. A few hundred municipalities don't have a municipal psychologist. There are a few hundred municipalities that hardly know they own a bodyguard. We need to structure and organise differently over the next few years to get the big resources to find each other and to find out. I sometimes use my own municipality, Gjøvik, as an example. We're about to have 4,000 students at NTNU at Gjøvik. The trade school Inland, which is also at Gjøvik, has nearly 1,000 students, and Gjøvik secondary school has 1,000 students. Far less than half of the 6,000 young people we live in for studies live in the municipality of Gjøvik. But it is the municipality of Gjøvik that has the primary responsibility for the health and well-being of the many thousands of students. In the neighbouring municipality of Etnedal, it lives approx. 1000 inhabitants. There's nothing wrong with Etnedal – I use as much leisure as I can there – but in the course of that, it's hard to see how we're going to treat Gjøvik and Etnedal equally, considering the big differences we're facing. The Nordic Council has recently carried out a study on youth health services in several Nordic countries. It presents major challenges, and Norway is no exception. Unfortunately, it shows that young people have to run around to find out about the health service themselves. It's too poorly organized, it's too different ownership, and those who are sick have to be as healthy as possible to find out. Fortunately, we have received the country's first youth health strategy. We need to establish more low-threshold offers. We're going to have health centres that are open for the summer, and we're going to strengthen the school health service, but we also have to do something about ownership and organization. Today, 30 pst falls. of those aged 15 to 21 years from upper secondary school. We have a training course that is not suitable for everyone, while ownership and challenges related to guidance are shared. The county authorities do not own the health services. Nav is responsible for the places of practice and the provision of work. We have to organize this better. The same is true when it comes to the occupational health service, and I think it is strange that no one else engages in it. 1.4 million out of 2.7 million employees do. So the half don't have it. Many of those who do not have, also do not have an inclusive employment contract where they work. They also do not have health insurance. It's especially the young people who don't have any of the parts, and here we have to make an effort to strengthen that offer. So those with the least connection to the working life, and who may have the most needs early in their career, have no health care. We're getting a two-part working life. In 2017, we are in charge of the hospital budget of the Left. The growth since 2002 has been 90 billion. kr. There is no shortage of money in the hospital sector. The growth in this period has been 8.5 billion. kr. It's important that we strengthen our efforts early, that we organize better in the municipalities, and that's where we have a big task in the future to put in an effort to create the good childhood that we all want and that lasts life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e641	There is a broad majority in the UK, where the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe it is good to coordinate digital health and information services for young people in a common low-threshold electronic arena with a clear public health profile. The comments make it clear that it is unwise to build up the expertise currently available at the Klara Clock web service. The majority ask the government in the note to build on the professional environment that Klara Klock has established in Northern Ireland, and that consideration should be given to adding the operation of the future e-Arena for young people to Bodø. That is why the Workers' Party and the Centre are today promoting a proposal in line with the observation that we are saying: ‘The government is asking for the maintenance of the Klara Klock telephone and network service and, where appropriate, for a more comprehensive youth network service to the already existing good environment built in Bodø.’ In the light of Saturday's events and the position of the Left, where they would vote in favour of their own income line, I have only one question for the representative, Mr Kjeseth: Will the representative of the Left today support this proposal, which is in line with the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e653	I feel that it is the Klara Klok representative who is busy. For many years it has been a service that the municipality of Nordland has built in an exemplary way. The left agrees with the government parties on a youth health strategy. Young people must be the portal for youth in the future. It's the most important thing. The provision of health to young people is not yet sufficiently structured. It is an objective to build it up to become a digital health centre for young people. Klara Klock is the first example of this in Norway. It is very good that the county council has built up the offer and entered into agreements with a lot of health professionals to operate it. It's an anonymous service for young people. That offer shall be continued. The municipality of Nordland can operate it when it is transferred to new.no. Klara Bell will be closed on sight as a youth health station online.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e660	I saw with some wonder that the representative Kjenseth participated in a torch at Lillehammer about hospitals. The left was, of course, the party that was supposed to create custody in Health-Noreg with its agreement with the government party in the National Health and Hospital Plan, but today, approximately no, at 0 p.m. 11.30, another marking is in progress in Health-Norway. It's in Odda, where it's at. 11.30 shall be a march up to the hospital, for today a project team shall submit a recommendation on the maintenance of emergency surgery by Odda Hospital. The left went out after the hospital contract in the spring and said that the left was the guarantor that Odda would preserve the emergency surgery. My question is: if – to take Odda now – they lose the emergency surgery, what will the Left do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e667	Thank you for the question. To the torch train at Lillehammer: it's about the hospital offer in the interior, which I'm very busy with. As the representative Toppe knows, I went to the elections on no to the hospital in the interior. I know that the representative Toppe agrees with me, but the Oppland Center Party does not agree with that. I fight for the hospital offer in Oppland. Over time, it has been reduced at the expense of the offer at the hospitals in Hedmark, which has four emergency hospitals. It's a challenge to distribute this to the hospitals that we have. The hospital agreement between the government parties and the left states that no hospital should be closed. I take it for granted that the hospital in Odda will not be laid down, and I would like to see that report before I comment on it. As the representative of Toppe knows, we talked in the hospital plan about those hospitals that have a population of over 10,000. Then there are challenges in Odda that also deal with long distances... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e678	Time's up, so we'll get back to Odda later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e683	The major health challenges are social differences. It is clear that there are differences. If you're disadvantaged, you have a much greater chance of having poor health than if you have a lot. It's known, and it's research based. That's why it's nice to listen to representatives of the Left who talk very wisely about prevention and all the things we should do to make sure that everyone, especially from childhood, gets the opportunity to alleviate the disadvantages you have, for example. if you come from a disadvantaged family, through better provision at the health centre, through school, etc. What is the reason why the Left chooses to cooperate with the government and give so much tax cuts – 20 billion. kr – to the richest rather than spending more money on prevention, as SV does?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e692	I still hear the SV talking about these tax cuts. I have to go round about it, because it's essentially the property tax that is the reduction in taxes. In the districts, especially in Oppland and Hedmark, where Andersen and I belong, business is based on the enterprises that have fewer than ten employees. They want to invest these taxpayers in their own businesses and in their own jobs. So I am constantly amazed that SV does not want to structure the municipal sector and the primary health service better. In 2013, there were 9 fewer health sisters in Norway, 292 more in the last four years. We've added almost 1 billion. kr in the pot to create more. Unfortunately, the municipalities have not prioritised it. We need to structure the resources differently to create the good childhood to last life in all Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e699	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e705	The big differences in Health Norway are based on social dividers, and they are not going to be evened out until you're willing to let those who have the greatest assets and the largest incomes contribute to building up good deals that make it possible to balance these differences both economically and healthily. It's not called cut anymore. This is followed by migration challenges. It's not called cut, it's called efficiency improvement, and it's called red tape. That's what it's called. Well, in pretty good sense, it's called novelty, but if you're a little bit more honest, it's a manipulation. I have gone through what the various hospitals say they are facing now after the government's first cut and the second cut. We can start at the top, with Health North. At the Finnish Hospital, at the Hospital for Mental Health Protection and Raisin, manning has fallen compared to both 2015 and 2016. The session shall be budgeted for. On prehospital services, they say that if the number of missions increases, the budget will crack. Arrow down. At the University Hospital Nord-Norway, they say that further efficiency is now demanding to deal with after the company has streamlined for more than 10 pst. of the budget for the last six years. Post-clinical clinics are subject to savings requirements. At the Helgelands Hospital, they say the same thing, that they have to cut, and they write ‘a safe health offer’ – with quotation marks – in their own budgetary documents. At St. Olav they say that in periods of high coverage in the hospital, the number of beds is at the limit of what is right. Health Møre and Romsdal say that everything is being cut. How it can be a strengthening, I don't know. As far as Health Bergen is concerned, all the challenges that have been at the women's clinic there are known. Health south-east I've been inside. In Aarhus, millions are to be saved first and foremost from having newborns and families sent out of the hospital in the past – 500 pieces are to be removed. So you have to feed more efficiently and rationally, as the committee leader said in his statement when I asked her about this. At Oslo University Hospital, they believe that they need to improve their efficiency by 4 p.m. By comparison, the Prime Minister's office increased its budget by 17 p.m. In the Inland Hospital, fewer beds are budgeted for in psychiatry, and they tell us that there are going to be more deposits. This is quite serious. At the Hospital Østfold, they also say that they must go to a reduction in staffing in all areas. This is something other than the more people have been up here and said that there should only be decreases in the administration. Therefore, SV has increased the budget of hospitals – we believe it is necessary – while at the same time having a strong commitment both to prevention and to rehabilitation, especially in the municipal sector. I have to enter into the government's so-called escalating plan for rehabilitation, which is actually a degressive plan. We've asked the department how much you save on cutting this diagnostic list, and the answer is 500 million. kr. Then you've put some money back in, but most of the money comes from an increased proportion of the patients' side effects. In the municipal sector, 100 million have been added. kr, without ringing, and requires municipalities to take in 175 million. KS and physiotherapists say this is impossible, also because this is treatment that requires many specialities together. If the patient is not able to afford to pay the costs, the entire treatment will be lost. This is really a degression and not an escalation, and it's sad. There really needs to be a bet in the future, because that makes many more going to be fine. Therefore, SV has added a stepping up -- a real stepping up -- here. In addition, we have put in proposals for an escalating plan for low-threshold services in psychiatry, which I heard someone from the Workers' Party was up here and promoted before today. That's what we promoted in the budget, and it's a little sad that the Workers' Party wasn't involved in that, but we want that. Then we've put forward two proposals that I want to promote. There are loose proposals, because SV is not in the Health Committee. I will come back to those suggestions in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e749	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e756	SV has long argued that one of the most important aspects of health policy is to focus on prevention work among children and young people. In spite of this, it is difficult to find some kind of commitment in the SV's alternative budget that is geared towards prevention for children and young people. It was also surprising that SV went against standardised tobacco packs, the main purpose of which was to prevent children and young people from starting up with tobacco. Smoking is still likely to be a main explanation of social health differences. Therefore, this is an important prevention measure, specifically targeting children and young people. My question to the representative is whether the prevention work for children and young people is no longer so important for SV, or whether we can interpret this as being satisfied with the great effort already made by the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e765	With these lines, I wonder whether the representative has actually read the SV's alternative budget. She couldn't have done that. There she'll see that there's a big bet in school, which is very important. We're betting on more people in kindergarten, which is a very important prevention work. We'll bet 250 million. kr more than the government has done, to earmark money for the school health service. We're going to bet on a school meal, which is very important. And not least – among the important things we do – we want to reduce the economic differences, where we know that the most disadvantaged families are struggling the most. So, the health differences are huge given that you have different economic conditions. That is why we must help the disadvantaged. It is also the best preventive health effort we can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e772	When you listen to the representative Karin Andersen and SV, it's obvious that they have formidable money. It's not so strange when you look at their alternative state budget, where you're proposing to raise the tax collection by $23.2 billion. kr or – said in a slightly more understandable language – 23,000 million. kr. When SV was in government, we saw little about this. In fact, today’s government is able to provide tax relief to both the majority of people and Norwegian businesses, while ensuring increased treatment and health care efforts. The question for the representative Andersen is: Does SV have other solutions in the opposition than in the position? And do the other tools to finance all good purposes than to get the suction pipe even further into people's wallets, looking for even more tax dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e781	There is an error with the authorised representative's articles. Firstly, SV uses seven billion fewer oil crowns than the representative, the government and the majority do. Yes, we give priority to reducing the economic differences in Norway, because we also know that is very good public health work. But unlike the government and the Progress Party, we all have our taxes to people who earn less than NOK 600 000. In our arrangement, anyone who earns less than 600,000 kroner in total will get much bigger tax credits, while the government's arrangement gives tax credits to those who have a lot of money from before and will therefore also be the best health position. This is just about how you want to spend the money. We believe, therefore, that investing in care for the elderly, good kindergartens, good schools and good health is far more important than making the wealthiest even richer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e794	Karin Andersen is quite right that it is important that women who have given birth get good help after birth. In 2007–2013, I was rapporteur in the municipality with the youngest population. During the night we were told that one wrote out patients from the maternity ward in Stavanger up to several days before what had been done earlier. My question, when the representative, Andersen, is so concerned that this is because of budget cuts: what happened then, were there poor budgets in health companies that made them start printing faster, or was it also professionally justified that they wrote patients out faster from the maternity ward?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e801	I think it could be both. That there has been a change in the view of how fast patients should be printed out, even after a birth, is quite clear. It is then very dependent on the good midwife service in the municipalities. It's probably not all over the country yet. After all, we have had interpellation debates here in Stortinget, which show that this development has gone too fast, and that it is now being printed too many too early. I've gone through the papers of health companies that say what the situation is now, and now several of them justify the need to print patients and give birth in the past, with the financial constraints that exist, and that's what's worrying. When there are no professional assessments on the basis of which neither the hospital is doing, nor because it is certain that there is an offer in the municipalities that can accept these women, I believe this is critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e808	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e814	The budget to be adopted by the Grand Duchy today continues and reinforces the government's efforts to provide the patient's health care. Through increased appropriations, clear priorities and new solutions, we show that we want to give priority to the health and care sector. Everyone must have the security of a well-funded public health service for himself and his family when he needs it. The main objectives are to: reduce unnecessary and non-medically justified patient expectation; increase capacity and enhance quality in the care sector, in the care of the elderly Prioritising better treatment and prevention in the field of mental health and drugs The budgetary agreement between the Government and the Cooperation Parties supports these objectives. We are increasing the appropriations for patient treatment. Hospitals can now further increase patient treatment if they have the financial and capacity to do so, following the introduction of the system of free treatment choices. In all its budget proposals, the Government has facilitated a higher rate of growth in patient treatment than the last government has adopted over its eight years. The majority proposes to increase the appropriations for hospitals by nearly 1.5 billion. kr next year. One orders a growth in patient treatment of 2.1 pst. and increases the requirement for the effective functioning of hospitals. The government suggests in Appendix 363 million. SEK for the start of four new large construction projects in 2017. We will further ensure the establishment of proton treatment in Norway and propose 75 million. SEK in investment grants next year. The cooperation parties agree that two proton centres should be investigated in Norway. We now see good results. The most recent figures show that about 80,000 fewer patients are waiting for treatment and investigation now than when we took over, in 2013. The average waiting time for all patients is 59 days. There's a decrease of eight days, compared to the same period a year ago. The descent is maximum for the same period of time. We are betting on quality and capacity in the care sector. The budget facilitates the grant of grants to some 1,800 lucky day care places. In the years to come, it is important to develop capacity to meet the upcoming increase in the number of older people in Norway. As a result, the government proposes to gradually convert the investment grant in order to grant grants from 2021 only to projects providing several lucky days care places. We propose to strengthen the quality of services through the provision of basic, continuing and continuing training for care staff of over 40 million. Next year, a total of 1.2 billion. kr. The government will intensify efforts for people with drug problems or mental problems. For 2017, 345 million have been proposed by the government. kr more through the escalating plan for the drug field. This has been reinforced in the budget agreement by over 100 million. kr. We are then in front of the escalating plan of 2.4 billion. kr by 2021. In addition, the growth in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment is about 150 million. kr. In 2017, for the first time, a large programme for public health work is being set up in the municipalities – a grant scheme of approximately 56 million. to promote local drug prevention and to contribute to the integration of mental health into public health work, in particular in the case of children and young people. In addition, in the budget agreement, there has been an agreement to continue the grant scheme for mental health in school. Together, this will contribute to real speeding up the work that was agreed upon in the context of public health communication, integrating mental health as an equivalent part of public health work. The budget setting now also includes a phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which will contribute to the development of the provision of services in municipalities, but which will not least also contribute to a new organisation of services, which provides more coherent services for the various people in need of rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e856	In the Political Quarter of 30 September, the Council of State said the following about the investment grant to the hospital: of course, it should be possible to apply for aid for renovation after 2021, as long as the municipality also adds to the increase in the number of places. After all, the state councils in this house have gone from this statement. In fact, in the budget proposal, he's just as unclear. Here he writes that the investment grant is changed so that, from 2021 onwards, grants are given exclusively to projects that provide net growth of space. I have a project like that. At Kvaøya in Tromsø, we plan to renovate a large hospital after 2021, but so that we can build some additional places in the renovation. Let's say you renovate 50 places and at the same time establish 10 new ones. Governments should clarify the following questions, which are not answered in the proposition: What kind of figures are used to calculate investment aid after 2021 for the project at Kvalöya? Is that the 60 new/refurbished places, or just the 10 new ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e865	This line I've answered sometimes before, and the answer is very clear. If Kvalauja wants to receive state support for the rehabilitation of the old nursing home, they should be granted farm applications before 2021. Then it is completely possible to apply for the rehabilitation of spaces. After 2021, they will only receive grants for the additional places they set up, simply because what Norway will need after 2021 is to increase the capacity of elderly care so that we are able to meet the increase in the number of older people coming. Municipalities are responsible for maintaining their own buildings. That's what they're getting from the state through the municipal framework. They have now had decades to receive State subsidies to both achieve the coercive reform and to rehabilitate existing buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e870	Governments have been reasonably concerned with reducing waiting lists and waiting time for different patient groups. However, there is one group where the waiting time and the queue have not fallen. This applies to children and young people who are awaiting treatment in the field of mental health in specialist healthcare. What does the Council of State think that this queue has not gone down? Few people go to the torch for that particular group of patients. What will he do to bring down that queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e875	There we work in several areas. Firstly, I think there are too many children and young people today who need to get too sick before they get help. Then it happens that they end up in exactly the queue the representative picks up. I don't think that's necessary. This is why the government parties, together with the cooperation parties, are now building up a mental health service in the municipalities. There are now record numbers of psychologists employed in the municipalities. We've now spent a total of over 1 billion. kr to build up the school health and health station offer. I think that's the most important thing we can do. So it's like we've reintroduced the golden rule. I'm not satisfied with the way health regions have followed it up. This means that there will be increased missions to build up the supply of mental health and specialist healthcare to children and young people in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e880	The use by children of medicinal products poses more and more risks than in adults. From New Year's onwards, there is at least a danger that Norway will lose an important reference work for medicines for children. Doctors, of course, need access to good and up-to-date information when printing medicines to children, and often they are medicines that are not mentioned in the Norwegian Common Catalogue. This is an international reference service to which health services in Norway have previously had access. Now this will cost more money from New Year's, and this is the cause. Fortunately, it is a joint committee that proposes today that we ask the government to secure a solution to help the Norwegian healthcare system gain public and national access to this network. But these days, the competence network has to decide. Will the Council of State take action?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e885	It is the healthcare service that is responsible for this type of access to those who work in the service, and there is also an assessment of which services should be available through the purchase of access by the individual hospital or department, or whether access should be open to all, both those who work in the healthcare system and the general public. There are negotiations. There are changes in currency and changes in the way these different services are provided. I think the wisest thing is that it is those who have these assessments and the overall picture, who make the kind of decisions about the types of contracts and agreements to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e890	One of the key achievements of the 2016 budget for the Left is the preparation of a diabetes plan. In Norway, we have a growth in diabetes that is starting to look like an epidemic, unfortunately. I wish we had got more on that diabetes plan in 2017, I hope the Council of State will put an effort there. In Denmark they have now granted 60 million. kr over the next three years in the fight against diabetes. Another thing the Danish Minister of Health, the Danish Council of State, has done, is to break through and accept the use of the FreeStyle Libre blood sugar meter, which I have been busy with several times. More than 180 days have passed since the knowledge centre was commissioned to investigate the use of FreeStyle Libre in Norway. Then I allow myself to ask the question again: do we now know more about the situation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e895	It's working on the diabetes plan. Norway and Denmark have organised healthcare in different ways. In Norway, we have established a system to assess and implement new methods, and the approach taken by the representative here is now under assessment and decision-making in the Decision Forum, and that is what could give us an answer as to whether this is a service that should belong to the specialist healthcare service and be financed by hospitals, or whether it is a method that is more naturally part of public health and becomes an agreement with health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e900	There's always been a discussion about whether hospitals have enough money, but now they're experiencing what's called efficiency cuts. I have heard several people here in the Chamber today who have a pious desire that this be taken administratively and not on the patients, while the hospital documents clearly show that this is going on in the context of patient treatment. When e.g. The Helgelands Hospital in its documents places a safe supply of food in quotation marks, it is a warning. In the Inland Hospital, then, there is a superior who has now gone on the day because the offers are considered unfair. Such warning cases have also occurred in the past in the health care system, where employees are required to say that something is just and not fair. Can the Council of State now assure us that all such alerts are taken seriously and are not categorised just as a battle for their own affairs, but as a warning case?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e905	Firstly, it is not an alert case if an employee and a central manager of a health enterprise chooses to quit their position. It's important that you keep an eye on when a person uses a warning as a concept. Then there is a wrong presentation of the situation in the Hospital-Norway representative. So this government has been able to prioritise higher growth in patient treatment than the previous government has been able to achieve over its eight years. To next year, there will be a budget of 1.5 billion. kr in the growth of hospitals' economies. It's on the level of what was common under the previous government. So if this post is a description of the consequences of that kind of prioritisation of hospitals, it's a fairly hard judgment the representative comes with over SV's ability to get an impact on SV's government policy. Hospitals have a healthier economy than in the past, there is a record investment, fewer patients are in line, and more people are getting help. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e911	That's when the time is up, and that's also the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e917	I want to talk about older people's policies, which are often about elderly people's care. That's what I'm going to do, but I'm going to take the challenges a little bit wider than that. As a society, we need to have both good care, health and care services that benefit the most vulnerable – often the demented – elderly, and a policy in which we use the resources that many seniors have to a large extent and which can benefit both the older seas, the older ones and society. The Labour Party will listen to the advice that older people give us. We know that most people want to stay at home and be the sailor as long as possible. Therefore, more than today, we need to focus on more innovation, on home-based services and welfare technologies that make this possible. We have to provide housing that can have quality of life, where good luck and care can be put in when individuals get there and they need it. The Labour Party has granted 100 million. in addition to the government's framework for welfare technology in the budget submitted for 2017. Many older people tell us that activity, culture and experiences are essential for good quality of life. This fall, together with the Wise Old People's Council of the Workers' Party, I have made a contribution to the programme process of the Workers' Party's old age policy, where we point to just this. We must have measures that can prevent solitude when labour relations cease, and when sickness and age lead to isolation. The Labour Party will provide more low-threshold meeting places for social inclusion, activity and participation, where older people can find a place to be and thrive regardless of their health status. That is why the Workers' Party is transferring 43 million. kr – bureaucrats, I would say – from the government’s hopeless attempts to finance the so-called state care of the elderly to a pot for activity, experience and lifelong projects. We agree with the many rapporteurs throughout the country who point out that the government's efforts to fund the state of care for the elderly are wrong medicine and should preferably be archived under the label 'Removal of life'. Good care for the elderly depends on a competent professional. We need to have higher staffing, increased skills and better quality of care for the elderly. Then the local economy is important. The Labour Party grants 3 billion. kr more to the local government sector in 2017 than the government does. The Competence Lift, which was launched by the Stoltenberg II Government, contributed to an increase in the number of annual jobs in the care and care sector of more than 22,000. While more than 2,800 new annual works came on average per year in the municipalities on a red-green watch, the growth in annual work per year under this government has been only 1,370, i.e. less than half. The investment grant for the construction and renovation of hospital facilities was introduced by the Stoltenberg Government in 2008. The working party is very critical that the government proposes to change this from 2021, so that only new projects can be supported. This is probably a desk reform by the government, which does not take into account the fact that both people and municipalities are different. The Minister of Health claims that the purpose is to increase the net number of seats. But it doesn't matter. If only newly built, old sites are likely to be phased out after a short period of time. There is no net gain, as senior researcher Karin Høyland at Sintef Construction Research points to. She points out that it is the operation of the care of the elderly that is going to be most demanding and that the conversion of the grant can prevent innovation, flexibility and innovation. We agree and, like many of the country's rapporteurs, we would point out that resources must be set up to provide a whole 'care-trafficking'. The newspaper has recently had an interesting series of articles on elderly policy, which shows that in our neighbouring country, Sweden and Denmark, what the government is doing is going the opposite way. The institutionalised care of the elderly is being built up. It is also worth noting that senior researcher Svein Olav Daatland, at NOVA, advocates a much stronger commitment to nursing homes and better home services, which, in his opinion, will mean that the need for nursing homes will be reduced in the years to come, contrary to the health minister’s policy. My reply was just to get the Council of State to really see and see how square his solution is, and to get him to at least write it, so that the municipalities out there know what they have to keep to when he talks so much from both mouths, which he actually does in this case. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen said this summer that the government has not succeeded in its older policy. There's nothing to suggest that there'll be anything better in the last year of the Solberg government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e941	In Norway, we are good at saving lives after accidents or serious illness. But we still have a way to go to get better at rehabilitating the individual back to a life of mastering and social participation. In the context of the 2017 budget, the government promotes a long-term phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The plan highlights today’s challenges and points out a new direction for increased mastering, better health and a safe everyday life. The aim is to strengthen user perspectives and improve quality, enabling municipalities to provide good rehabilitation services to citizens. We have promised that we will not build up the specialised rehabilitation until the provision in the municipalities is sufficiently expanded, which is also reflected in the goal of the escalation plan, with its main focus on the municipalities where each lives and lives. The escalation plan is an important piece in creating the patient’s healthcare. It requires changes in attitudes, changes in work form, increased focus on mastering, and not least requires good tools such as management, competence, teamwork and ICT. Much of this important work has already been undertaken through previously delivered plans, outsourcing messages and legislative proposals. It is therefore positive that a Joint Committee has agreed that the phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation must be seen in conjunction with other communications and plans already submitted by the Government. Work on primary health notification — proximity and completeness and national health and hospital plans provided key feedback to users. They referred to fragmented services that often failed in the transition between primary and specialist health services. The notification states that rehabilitation is a process of thought that needs to permeate all aspects and part-services of municipal health and care services. A key action is to establish a more team-based service. Trials are in progress in the municipalities. The core of the team is a doctor, nurse and administrative staff, which can be expanded as necessary with other professionals. The worst patients with multiple diagnosis, complex needs and chronic disorders shall be followed up by their own follow-up teams. Competence level 2020 has introduced a number of measures to help increase the competence of services in general and in the areas of rehabilitation and rehabilitation in particular. The Government has established national leadership training for primary health services. 102 students have already completed their education. Team organisation may result in new tasks and roles for personnel groups, with the need for increased clinical competence at master level. This too is under way. In the treatment of primary health care, it was agreed that the Stortinget should legitimise municipal access to physiotherapy, ergotherapy, logoped and psychologist. Recruitment grants have been introduced to provide more psychologists in municipalities. For 2016, we arranged for 150 new psychologists. In 2017, we set up a further 65. The most common definition of good health is the absence of disease. But good health is not just about the absence of disease, it's about good prevention, about mastering a life also with sickness and disability, which the Minister of Health talks a lot and often about. We therefore need to be more effective at seeing the individual user of the service, and ask the question: What is important to you? More transparency and better cooperation between specialist health services and community health services are required for the patient to be taken seriously – increased quality, more teamwork and not least good and open dialogue with patients and relatives. The phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation is therefore an important step towards creating the patient’s healthcare and health for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e969	A main objective of the Progress Party is to reduce waiting times and provide faster treatment. Therefore, it is reassuring to see that with us in the government, the appropriations are increasing, so that we can ensure better and more treatment for the best for Norwegian patients. Actually, it's 1.5 billion. kr more in the hospital pot next year compared to this year. Today we are to equip the specialist health service to meet tomorrow's challenges. I am pleased that the government received the approval of the Stortinget National Health and Hospital Plan, a plan that states that we need hospitals throughout the country, and that no hospital will be closed as a result of this. The right-hand party government proposed to increase the operating appropriations for the hospitals in 2017 by nearly 1.9 billion. Compared to the 2016 budget balance. Today, when we adopt a budget where this sum is somewhat reduced after the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, I understand those who are disappointed about it. In the original draft budget of the Left, the hospital budget was cut by 800 million. kr, which it was not appropriate for the Progress Party to agree. However, it is gratifying that more attention is given to other important health measures after conciliation. The right-wing Party government, in all four proposals for the State budget, has facilitated higher patient treatment growth than the red-green government achieved through its eight. Next year, too, it is budgeted with an activity growth of 2.1 p.m., which is in line with the government's original draft budget. That is why I am delighted to follow the debate and what I suppose will be a powerful attack from the opposition on what it will think is a poor budget. In that case, it also makes a tough judgment about its own willingness to give priority to hospitals in the period 2005–2013. Hospitals have an almost complete need for money. No matter how much we grant, we should always have granted more. Neither does this government have any sareptac to use for one thing, but must make priorities, even though it is difficult for some to understand that we cannot find money for absolutely all good purposes in the world's richest country. However, we give hospitals the opportunity to influence their own everyday life and operation, among other things. by removing the activity stack and increasing the input-driven funding. This means that hospitals that are able to streamline patient treatment have the opportunity to increase activity beyond the 2.1 pst order. This is not about employees running faster, but about organizing their work smarter and seeing new solutions. Many examples can be found — both at department, clinic and health enterprise level. Because, as is also stated in the National Health and Hospital Plan, hospitals will have to organise themselves differently and work smarter in the future, and we are contributing to this work with clear efficiency requirements. Effectiveness and better logistics in hospitals are not the opposite of a better patient offer, but this is a prerequisite – not least in the future. For example, the government has introduced package pathways for 28 different cancer diagnoses, which reduce waiting time and create more predictability with smarter ways of working. It shows some of the potential. And patients get standardised pathways with shorter waiting times and faster pathways to diagnosis and treatment on suspicion of cancer. So far, there are 36 000 patients in the package, and there will be more. Because we see that the package sequences work, are effective and are perceived as a major advance. This is why we now want to introduce these processes also in the field of drugs and mental health — and set of 5.3 million. kr to this for start-up next year. We see that waiting lists and health cows are shorter than before and that there are fewer corridors. More people get treatment, and we're happy for that. 80000 fewer waiting in health queues now than when the Right Party Government joined and the average waiting time is reduced by 12 days. With the Advance Party in government, we have also fulfilled one of the main electoral commitments of the Workers' Party, namely to provide one million more treatments and investigations than in 2012. We did it already in 2015. The aim of the Labour Party was in 2017. It says something about the increased budgets and the more efficient hospital operations this government delivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e990	There is a broad consensus on strengthening primary health. It is important for patients to really experience a comprehensive health service. It is also important to turn the focus on more prevention, in order to make best use of the total resources, but not least in order to provide the sickest patients, the multi-sick, who need better coordination between the community health and specialist health services. And then we're talking about a lot of older people, ruspacers and patients with mental disorders and a lot of chroniclers. It's referred to as 90 pst. health services are provided in municipalities, while the financial framework is 50 pst. against municipal health and 50 pst. against the specialist health service. We need good specialised hospitals, but also quality at all stages, with more emphasis on early intervention and better follow-up after treatment. It will contribute to a reduction in the need for hospital treatment as well. The imbalance between municipal health and specialist health services is also seen in research, education, specialisation, recruitment of permanent practitioners. Actually, there is a systematic imbalance in most areas. One of the concrete proposals in the Primary Health Communication was to test out different primary health teams. The Labour Party thought that the Stortinget should define health policy objectives, but give municipalities the freedom to use their own expertise, experience and creativity to try out different solutions. The Government Parties and Support Parties agreed on four centrally defined solutions, but this work has not yet started, and it is unclear how extensive the testing will be, whether it will include the financial instruments. The municipalities are impatient. The lack of quality of information exchange poses a significant risk of serious healthcare incidents. One of the main ICT challenges today is the lack of electronic communication systems in care and care. The working party has called for further work and believes that it must be given first priority. One notes that the government parties and the intermediate parties do not have concrete plans to set aside public funding in order to advance this work. The working party believes this is so important for patient safety and a comprehensive health service that we have prioritised 10 million. kr for the development of a uniform electronic patient record-keeping system. We also lack a stronger commitment to ensuring good recruitment of real estate agencies across the country. There are different support schemes and a project to be evaluated now in spring, but when we see that development has continued to go in the wrong direction, we believe that there is a need for a more active policy to ensure equivalent provision across the country by having competent health professionals, not only doctors, but within all health care groups, and not least look at the content of education, so that we train health professionals who also see challenges to primary health. The Committee was presented with the emergency committee in the Council of State dinner last spring. We looked forward to getting a complete case to the Stortinget on how to contribute to increasing the capacity, quality and competence of the emergency chain in order to ensure the safety of the population in the event of acute illness and injury. The surprise was great when the government chose not to present an overall plan, but piece by piece and divided. And there we also see that it is the specialist health service that is being prioritised, and that the medical officer – who has been called in this room, and who has been described as the “achilles heel” – is once again systematically down-prioritised and actually hidden away. In research, primary health is gradually being raised, but we think it is unwise to remove research resources from the centres of expertise we have in primary health. We have asked for a review and that we not build down the few but good, well-functioning knowledge environments we have in primary health, especially those that have research as an integral and necessary part of their competence function, such as the National Centre of Competence for Medical Medicine and the National Centre for District Medicine. But we are very pleased that we found a permanent solution for the Centers for Crisis Psychology, and that in the Education Committee there is a majority to ask the government to work for the establishment of a five-year master's education for manual therapists and chiropractors at a Norwegian university. There are musculoskeletal disorders that are the main cause of sick leave and new malaise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1007	Trust in Norwegian health care is high; according to the trust barometer of TNS Gallup, trust has increased from 65 to 74 pst. in recent years. The four health regions have positive economic results. For the right, it is an objective that patients and users should be more actively involved in decisions on their own health and treatment than at present. We want to create the patient's healthcare by shifting power from the system to the patient, we want to give the patient more rights, and not least we went to the elections to reduce the waiting time. In this budget, we're adding 1.5 billion to hospitals. kr, we increase investment, and we further develop home hospitals for children in Stavanger. There's quality and growth in this. Waits go down. More than 80,000 fewer queues now than when the Right Party and the Advance Party came to power in 2013, and the average waiting time in the period has fallen. With the Right in Government, more patients are treated. We have overfilled the most important hospital commitment before the elections to treat one million more patients in 2017 than in 2012, and we managed that two years earlier. I record that the centre party is not concerned with measurements that say anything about this, but the patients are at least busy being treated quickly. Both the Right and the Workers' Party had a concrete commitment to the use of money in 2013, but the Workers' Party also had a concrete promise about the number of treatments. We've achieved that without spending the same amount of money. That shows that the policy is working. For there is extensive efficiency and modernisation work in hospitals. It has done so every year, and it creates room for investment in new offers to patients. Effectiveness and better logistics in hospitals are not the opposite of a better patient offer, but are a prerequisite for this – not least in the future. This is not about employees running faster, but about organizing themselves smarter and finding new solutions. There are many examples of, at the level of both departments, clinics and health enterprises. The package sequence is an example of that. It was a five-million initial allocation. NOK, and yet it has now been possible to get a 28-packed course for cancer. It'll benefit the patients. This government has introduced several rights for patients. Free treatment options are responses to a system in which seriously ill patients with a right to treatment went for too long and wait for help, even if there was free capacity in both non-profit and private institutions. I'm surprised to see that the Workers' Party and the Centre will reverse free treatment choices. In reality, this will mean that patients lose their freedom of choice and the choice of where they will be treated. But it may not be so important that 1,000 patients are now being treated. The offer has come in private and non-profit-making. I also want to highlight the right to a contact doctor for those who are seriously ill. We had a system where serious sick people often became ballistics in the system, felt wild about the way forward and met ever new examples of what Per Fugelli called the "one-time doctors". It is great that the National Health and Hospital Plan was approved in Stortinget. It assured us of a decentralised hospital structure in Norway. The plan confirms that emergency medical function should be strengthened, and also provides for large hospitals to cooperate with less hospitals in terms of transfer of competences, hospitation and rotational arrangements. This will ensure quality in the future. We are getting more and more older, and older people are more likely to be hospitalized than younger people and have more diagnosis of cancer, diabetes, high blood pressure or coal. This requires hospitalisation from time to time. It is therefore great that we have decided to increase the competence of the emergency services and that there should be a new speciality there, not least that there should be geriatric competence in major hospitals. The red-green government also removed the golden rule that was supposed to ensure a higher growth rate for intoxication and mental health than usual hospital treatment, and it is with wonder that we now see that it is desired to be reinstated. It is said here from the pulpit that the desired results have not been obtained, but that is precisely what we want to do, to distort the treatment, and this is a sure message to health companies that this should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1028	The Labour Party wants a strong public health service, and the quality of health provision in Norway should be so high that the increasing differences in health status and access to health care as we see in many other countries are not to develop here in Norway. This is why we believe that the next major health promise in Norway must be about children and young people’s mental health and prevention. That's why we've been earmarking money for health and school health services in the municipalities over the entire ageing period. We have also spent more money on the Student Health Service, and we have put forward proposals in Stortinget on mental health in school and the establishment of low-threshold mental health services for children, young people and families in all municipalities. Psychiatric health disorders are a major challenge for us as a community. The aim of the Workers' Party is to provide comprehensive and coordinated assistance to those who are struggling with mental health problems. This applies regardless of who is responsible for the treatment and the diagnosis given to the patient. The treatment that patients with mental health disorders receive in our hospitals and in our municipalities must take care of people and not just the diagnosis they have received. The Directorate for Health has started work on introducing a package for patients with mental health problems. The Labour Party believes that the supply of mentally ill people should be organised as a holistic and well-coordinated patient process without delay affecting the patient in his treatment. These processes must be based on the individual patient’s needs and must take into account the fact that the patient will need both specialist healthcare and municipal services. The government wants to introduce a diagnostic-based mental health and drug-related package process based on the model of the cancer package. Such package sequences have been used in Denmark, but the model they have chosen has been missing. The risk is the introduction of minimum offers. Standardised treatment courses are used in several areas of psychiatry in Norway, and the Workers' Party believes that we need to build on these experiences when introducing a longitudinal guarantee for Norwegian patients. Psychiatric and drug precursors cannot be similar to the cancer package because cancer should largely have a linear course in its investigation and treatment. This is not the case for mental disorders, where you often try a treatment and then have to adjust the course based on the effect you achieve. Psychological illness and drug abuse are also influenced by factors such as the patient’s own resources and the environment in which he lives. This means that treatment must be individualised. We in the Workers' Party will have comprehensive and well-coordinated processes for these patients, and we want so-called unwanted variation in treatment provision to be eliminated. That's why it's called unwanted. However, in order to strengthen the efforts of psychiatry, hospitals need proper funding. Government Party, Right, promised a reinforcement on the hospital budget of 12 billion. kr during the period. Not only did the government put forward a hospital budget that was a good deal away from fulfilling the government's own electoral commitments, but in the budget agreement it was cut even more, nearly half a billion. Measured against record oil spending, the needs of our hospitals and the government's own promises, the government has proposed a hospital budget for 2017 – which has been supported by the cooperation parties – that presents many hospitals with challenges. The working party wants our common health service to be strong. The public supply in Norway shall be available to all and maintain a high level of quality to prevent the growing differences in health status and access to health care that are available to very many other countries from developing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1047	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1052	It's expensive to be sick. Many who live a whole life with chronic illness and/or with different disabilities also have challenges related to low incomes and high disease costs. This year many of them have received a bad Christmas gift from the government: In 2017 patients who are on the so-called diagnostic list get an extra bill from the government of NOK 2000 per year. These include: chronically ill and disabled persons on this list. Most of them are far from the payroll of Norwegian society, which the same government has accounted for with billions of dollars in tax cuts in recent years. It is terribly unfair for the government to impose additional costs on thousands of chronically ill and disabled with low incomes in order to finance its phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. However, the worst argument from that edge is that the scheme does not hit everyone who needs it. That's why some of the people who need free physical therapy the most need to take this away and now pay for it. It is also sad that the government's support parties are helping to secure a majority for this year's grossest Christmas gift. Unfortunately, Christmas peace has not settled in Sørlanden Hospital this year either. After many years of unrest and conflict, we finally thought that there was time for peace and space to further develop the hospitals in Flekkefjord, Kristiansand and Arendal. After the treatment of the national health and hospital plan and the establishment of local management in each of the three hospitals, it looked bright. Unfortunately, the hospital management has once again, with the director at the head, helped to create unrest by so questioning whether the hospital in Arendal has a impact field of approximately. 100 000 inhabitants, 500000 inhabitants of the PCI Centre and more than 1000 births per year are considered to be a major emergency hospital. This is done because one wants to move vital functions, including acute surgery, to Kristiansand. Of course, it creates insecurity and unrest. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Health to ensure that Health South-East and the hospital director deal with the Stortingen treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan in the future and end with their free interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1061	The Labour Party has ambitions for better welfare services in Norwegian municipalities. In the health and care budget, we propose more day-to-day activities for demented areas and a greater commitment to welfare technology. It's important and necessary bets. However, there is also reason to recall that a good municipal economy is absolutely necessary in order to strengthen care for the elderly and make the necessary investments in the coming years. That is why the Workers' Party has prioritised 3 billion in its alternative state budget. kr more for the local government sector. Our financial arrangements for municipalities allow for a stronger commitment to care for the elderly. We want more people in care, with a focus on full-time jobs and a variety of skills. During the hearing of the Municipal Committee earlier in the autumn, the KS organisation pointed out that the government's arrangement for the municipalities for the following year at best implies a zero growth without a room for action. It is amazing that a finance minister and party leader from the Progress Party, through their state budget, does not equip the municipalities so that they can strengthen the care of the elderly. In the past, the Progress Party has intended that it should not be on the money when it comes to care for the elderly. It would cost what it would cost. Even with record use of oil money, the Progress Party does not have the ability to prioritise money for care of the elderly. We have ended up with a government-frp who is more concerned with increasing fuel taxes than with strengthening the care of the elderly. When the Workers' Party prioritises significantly more money for the municipalities than the government, it is because we want to strengthen and expand the care for the elderly. With 135,000 unemployed people and record oil money usage, everything should be in place to bring about a lift for the care of the elderly. But the government has different priorities. In January 2013, party leader Siv Jensen said to VG that the Progress Party would make it as easy for the elderly to get a sick home place as for an asylum seeker to have a place on an asylum reception. She said, "It cannot be on the money. It'll cost you what it wants." Now that we're dealing with the last state budget from this government, there's an opportunity to sum up what this government has got into. The figures obtained from the Ministry of Finance show that the growth in total municipal income has fallen from an annual growth of 2.5 pst. in the period 2006-2013 down to 1,9 pst. annual with the Right-Fremskritspart-government. This means that the community sector and older people in need of care are missing about 2.5 billion. kr per year. That is why it is not so nice that today's Minister of Finance and Fisheries acknowledged this summer that today's government has not been given a necessary commitment to care for the elderly. They promised to come back in 2017. They haven't delivered on that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1082	The phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation points out a new direction for increased mastering, better health and a safer everyday life where individual users’ own objectives and resources will be the starting point for the health care provided. The right considers that rehabilitation needs to be looked at in a life-cycle perspective and will therefore work closely on the users and patient organisations in order for each individual to receive an offer that suits their situation. Now that the government has already initiated many important acts and changes in the law, it is in order for future rehabilitation and rehabilitation to be offered as much as possible where life is lived – at home, in kindergarten, in school, in leisure areas, in living and living environments and in the workplace. It is important to be able to make the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation more effective than it is today, up against current age groups. Therefore, the treatment offered must take into account that children, young people, adults and older people are at different stages of life. It is very positive that the government proposes to establish a national project to improve treatment for children with brain damage. At the same time, it is at least equally important that we establish a good service that listens to and meets young people where they are, that young people with severe illness and/or disabilities are given good opportunities to master the transition to adult life. It is also positive that the government wants to test out new working methods and models for better follow-up of patients with chronic diseases, including the ability of people affected by Parkinson’s disease to connect to Parkinson’s Network. The public health notification includes for the first time mental health in public health work and indicates that: ‘We can save too much suffering if we offer enough therapeutic services.’ A good example can be to organise good activities for people affected by dementia so that they can live a good life despite their illness. There are measures that can contribute to improving the health of individuals, in line with the objectives set out in the escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1102	It's been an interesting debate. After hearing Mr. Pedersen's representative, I think maybe she should take a trip home to her municipality and see how you manage the care of the elderly there, where you put down nursing homes despite the government having given grants, and the grant schemes are far better than the ones you've ever had before. I also think it is good that the Council of State put SV in place in terms of economics and how much money you want to spend on, among other things. hospitals. The representative Karin Andersen cannot be proud of what she was able to achieve in eight years of government. Then to the representative Toppe, who responded to my line that the Center Party was for local democracy. But if the Center Party believes the municipalities don't do what the State Center Party wants, then the State Center Party will override the municipalities. That's local democracy, too. In fact, the Progress Party believes that funding for the care of the elderly is a government task, and we want it to be a government task. That is why we have also been able to put in place a test scheme. In fact, this government has invested heavily in strengthening care for the elderly. We have provided strong increases in grants for nursing homes and day-to-day places, in terms of both the number and the possibility to apply. When the red-greens went off, there were 1,750 places, and there have been 2,500 places each year until what is now in the proposal, with 1,800 new places. The financial contribution has increased strongly in relation to the red-green government, which means that the municipalities are now actually applying, and that there are many more new sick homes and happy day care places in the future. In the case of day-care places for dementia care, this government has proposed 1,200 places each year up to the next year, where the figure is reduced to 800, but it is because there are fewer than 600 who make use of it. We've strengthened the law to ensure that people actually get a place if they need it and meet the criteria, which the red-green government wouldn't do in the eight years they put. We've made sure that you get a waiting list list, which the red-greens didn't want to get in place, so you actually know how many people out there want to get a happy day's care or a nursing home. We have made sure that there is now a requirement for police clearance for municipal care workers. It's important, and there are things that matter. We have made sure that something is done in terms of food quality and food quality, by launching a competition where you have challenged hospitals and other institutions, to actually make good food that is both nutritionally right and not least tasty, just to get the desire for more food and a few elderly people who are undernourished, to eat more food. We have decided to do something with medicines. It shows that this is a government that will, as a bet, and that wants the elderly to have safe and dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1117	Much of this debate is about money and who wants to put on the most. For the opposition, it's easy to spend money. One never cares about any other party's wishes. I took part in my first article on organisation, because it's also a lot about how to spend the money. One example I would like to refer to in the hospital sector is organ donation. About 850 people die in a respirator in Norwegian hospitals per year. Only about 450 are reported as potential donors. So there's a difference of 400, and why aren't all 850 registered? Out in donor hospitals there are no donor doctors or nurses who have a dedicated responsibility – a good example of a failing organisation and which does not necessarily cost much money. The training of doctors and nurses to ask and keep some artificial persons alive is important – even in order to meet the relatives, who will agree. If we go to Norwegian blood banks, I think we also have an example of possible improvements in organization. It's Red Cross recruiting 90 pst. by Norwegian donors. The Foundation Organ Donation and the Red Cross do not stimulate cooperation on the joy of giving that we are totally dependent on in the Norwegian health sector. The Foundation Organ Donation receives 6 million. kr annually from the State. Red Cross sheep approx. Two million. NOK to recruit donors. Why this difference, and what effect does it have? Here we have to look at what's going on and how it's going to be organized. We also have to dry to ask ourselves the question: When we offer the Foundation Organ Donation 6 million. kr annually, and more and more people say no to donating organs, how does it relate? It's not sure there's any connection at all. They do a good job, but we have to dry out asking ourselves these questions. Nor do Norwegian blood banks produce blood plasma for those who have cancer. We need to look at how we can do this in Norway. So to some issues that Left has got in place in this budget: investigation and design of domestic air ambulances, 10 million. kr. – important for one of the areas identified as a black hole in the Norway Map; Centres for Crisisepsycology in Bergen, an operational national emergency body when major crises and accidents occur in society – important to anchor it; and not least we have set up a cluster health programme, which is important. Speaking of the agreement with China today – Norwegian welfare technology has great potential. We're going to know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1138	First to the debate on the money: no government has had as much money as this government, so it would be lacking if you haven't spent more on hospitals. SV has chosen to use the money differently. We have e.g. 6 billion prioritized. kr more to the local government sector and 1 billion. We have also given priority to disadvantaged people, both young people and disabled people, so that they can get a better economy. Then we also know that it is also a good public health measure. So that debate is getting really weird, and it sounds like more people here are more concerned with SV than listening to patients and those who work in health care, who are now giving a lot of warning signals. SV has made two proposals here today. One is about pool and rehabilitation. Now there are many pools that have been laid down over several years. The last thing that comes now — there has been a big debate about the Diakonhämmens pool — is the pool attached to the Hospital Inland at the department of Ottestad for, among others. poliopathicter. Now it has to be moved to a place where it's not a pool. There will soon be no one left. I understand that the Minister of Health believes that this is not a responsibility for specialist healthcare, but I believe that the Stortinget must first clarify which part of the therapy pool treatment is part of our specialised healthcare, and you must ensure that such services are in place before they are put down. Our second proposal is that the government has proposed to transfer the staff of the forensic department of the Swedish Institute of Public Health to the Oslo University Hospital, without having consulted the professional communities. At least they believe – because they have not received any instructions on why this should happen – that this is about decorating the figures about who is employed in hospitals and who is employed in the bureaucracy. On paper it looks as if there are more health professionals and fewer bureaucrats doing this change, but it is not perceived as such by those who are there. If the government thinks this is a good proposal, they can come back to the Stortinget with it and show how they believe this should strengthen the purely professional side of the forensic environment. As it is now done, it is not clear at all, and therefore we believe that this should be stopped – which in addition costs a lot of money without any evidence that this should contribute to any increased professionalism. So I encourage the parties to support these proposals. As far as the pool proposal is concerned, it is related to the need for more rehabilitation. There the government has put forward a plan that is, in fact, a slowdown.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1151	Norway – and the rest of the world – is facing a fundamental shift. Often it is formulated or described as the fourth industrial revolution. Digitalisation is taking a look at all sectors and changing the way we interact and the way we create values. It offers many opportunities – and many challenges. We are relatively well equipped to meet these changes. We have a highly educated population, we have a largely well-developed infrastructure, and we're using new technology early on. Technology offers great opportunities in health and care: tasks can be solved more accurately and far more reasonably. Resources may be released. More people can get help. Symptoms may be detected earlier. At its best, digitisation can lead to fewer errors, faster help, better communication, more effective treatment and a simpler everyday life for both employees and patients. We can get a healthcare service that prevents and solves patients’ problems outside the permanent hospital office and outside the hospital – if we seize the opportunities. The public can neither, nor should, develop all infrastructure and all digital services themselves. Working with an offensive public health service can, however, give Norwegian companies an important advantage in succeeding, in creating new jobs and in growing globally. It is also in line with the new acquisition law that comes into force in January and with the government's own announcement of a digital agenda that we have had to deal with here earlier in the autumn. Health Mid-Norway has been preparing a tendering process for several years to gather health information in one common journal, both for hospitals and for municipal services, including both permanent hospitals and nursing homes. The contract offer for the Health Platform, with a framework of 2,7 billion. kr, was announced this year, and there were 11 companies – including DIPS ASA – who applied for prequalification. There were five non-resident companies that reached the level of prequalification. The main criterion was references to major complex projects, but the problem is that such projects have never been carried out in Norway before. Thus, no Norwegian company has that type of reference, even the largest provider of this type of service in Norway, DIPS ASA. The other criteria were the number of professionals and the financial and economic size of the company. No Norwegian ICT software company has as many employees or as many turnover as the smallest pre-qualified company, which has about one. 30000 employees and a turnover of about 4 billion. kr. Today we put down the Klara Clock service, a service that was digital from the very beginning. It's going backwards into the future. In the Workers' Party, we are committed to providing a boost for digital tools and for digital competence for managers at all levels, both in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, in hospitals and in the municipal firm. Digital competences must become more important for education and training also in healthcare. The future is digital. It must be for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1170	I would like to point out in terms of hospital economy, that none of the major projects that the government has undertaken have been reduced. On the contrary, there is an increase — a 100 million measure package. kr to areas in the South and South-West affected by the fall in oil prices and to hospital rehabilitation. There is also room for a pre-research — or pre-project — phase for the proportion centre in Norway to improve radiation therapy and cancer treatment by 2020. These are big stakes that are still in the budget. Other bets that I want to get into include: that we have a new concept that comes, personalised medicine. New knowledge and new technologies provide many opportunities for better patient treatment, and personalised medicine is one of them. Biological data are expected to be a permanent part of patient care. There we have a national strategy, followed by the ministry. It is a pleasure that money has been allocated to this – 5 million. kr for the construction and operation of a national anonymous database on genetic variants in Norwegian patients, which will provide a better interpretation of test responses, and it is also set at 3 million. for the establishment of a national network of multidisciplinary competences. That's a good contribution to patient treatment. Health is an important area for the development of new industries in the country. There is a large untapped potential for health activities in the health sector. Conversion and efficiency potential and, in particular, improved market access for private suppliers of new technologies and innovative solutions. The value added tax of health enterprises can give rise to a motivation for more future self-production rather than buying from private operators. From 2017 onwards, neutral VAT is introduced for health enterprises. It will include operations at this stage, and the Ministry will have experience of this before developing it further. But of course, the Workers' Party is going against this. The working party speaks hot for health care, but when it comes to it, you fall back to old paces. It's disappointing. This measure is welcomed by the health industry. The centre party has not surprisingly hung on to it as well. It is a rock belief that as long as the state provides services, quality is guaranteed. We want to move on and look at the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1181	Before the 2013 elections, the Right said the hospitals needed more money. That's what the Workers' Party said. We promised 12 billion. kr, and the right-t paperted out the same amount. In DN in October this year, Councillor Höie explains that he is satisfied with the situation, even though he is hanging out with several billion to reach the goal of 12 billion. kr during the period. It's the oil price fall that's due, says the Council of State. But the objective of tax relief has been achieved, so the priority is at least clear. Many hospitals are struggling. The Inland Hospital is no exception. Offers need to be cut, and there are new rounds to move around on treatment provision. In the interior, we are pleased that money is being allocated for the planning of a new air ambulance base. The left's Ketil Kjeseth shall have praise for it, but it is a great man. The Inland Hospital will have to cut about 50 million this year. kr in order to balance operations. The situation did not improve as concordants increased the efficiency requirements by almost half a billion. There is a poor consolation that there is only half of what the Left has proposed in its alternative budget. We're going to look for opportunities to work more effectively in the public sector, but there are some limits. Decentralized structures cost, but centralization rarely produces the effects we have been suggested on economics. More efficient operation within the current framework is possible and the hospital sector has contributed over a long period of time. Operational rooms and equipment are used for several hours a day, and arrangements are made for optimal flow of resources. That's good, but it's a thank-you for what's possible to take out in efficiency. The use of equipment is limited by daily hours and available personnel. We live in Norway. It is therefore important that local medical centres are given the opportunity to contribute. But not just because we live widely. It makes sense to treat patients at the lowest possible level. I would like such offers to be given a prominent place on the Health Minister's agenda in the future. We need the local medical centers. They do a good job for patients, but more attention is needed to secure the financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1194	The Labour Party believes that the next major health promise in Norway must be about children and young people’s mental health. Good mental health is necessary in order to live a good life, and we know that it affects the performance of high school and future work skills, and that is costing both society and individuals dearly. In the work of children and young people, we need to see more fully the whole life cycle, the generational perspective and the family, with networks and resources, together. Today, families in Norway are different in composition and have different, diverse and complex needs when they come into a situation where they need help. For most families, however, adults have to feel good about kids. There is therefore a great need for more holistic services that see the whole family. That is what I and the Health Group of the Workers' Party are promoting today's proposal for a representative. We need low community health services for families, which are multi-disciplinary and easily accessible, with the option of ‘drop in’. There are several municipalities that succeed in doing so. An example is Stage, who has established Stage Aids. There are many different professional groups working together under one roof with few shots between the professional groups. The stanchions provide a range of services for the whole family, both collectively and individually, and an evaluation of the 2013 results of the stanchions showed that four out of five who made contact with them got better. In addition, the evaluation of the Rapid Mental Health Assistance pilot project, the aim of which is to increase access to treatment for anxiety and depression through shorter waiting times, no compulsion and free treatment, shows that 60 pst. recovered after treatment. For the Workers' Party, it is an important principle that everyone should have access to equivalent healthcare, regardless of where they live. There must be room for good local solutions to best create a low-threshold service, but it is also important that the State supports it with the means to ensure that such a service becomes available in all municipalities. That's why we're proposing to give 100 million. This is because the community needs to provide more support for those young and families by facilitating early assistance. There's no secret to anyone that the government spends a lot of money, and that's the first time they collect money from the oil fund, and you don't just use the returns. It's money for future generations, and then it's extra disappointing that you don't invest in the future by investing in kids and young people's mental health. We need a promise, and then we need to work with the municipalities to put in place good services – not give the municipalities so tight a budget that it becomes difficult to bet on new things. Our financial approach for municipalities, along with what we put into the health budget, shows that we are taking this challenge seriously. We are willing to invest in children and young people's mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1207	There has been a debate about the liquidation of the so-called physiotherapy diagnostic list, and it is understandable that it may seem unfair to have to pay a self-interest for something you have escaped before. But there are a lot of people who see today's system as very unfair. In Sarpsborg Worksheet last week, both patients and a physiotherapist stated that they believe there are many good points to change this scheme. One patient said: ‘It’s never good to pay anything, you prefer it for free. But when it's like this, I realize you hit more people this way. More people can be treated if everyone pays a little.’ Physiotherapist said: ‘The list of diagnostics has been vague and difficult to interpret, and it has been very unfair. For example, many cancers have not given exemption. As a professional, it has been difficult to defend the logic of this here." As early as 2007, a Working Group of the Directorate of Labour and Welfare pointed out that the disease list does not meet all users with high needs. In 2014, the Norheim Committee in its NOU also stated that the list of diseases should be reviewed. Today’s system is unfair to patients who need physical therapy but are not on the disease list. In the Right, we believe that it is most fair that everyone is treated equally and in line with the practice we have in the rest of the healthcare system, where all patients pay a low proportion of their pay up to a free card limit. If the Workers' Party, which is voting against this today, had a majority here in the Chamber, 45 000 chroniclers who do not have a diagnosis on this list of diseases would get an intensification to the next year of 722 kroner. The Workers' Party outlines the government's proposal to exempt 9,500 children between 12 and 16 years of age from self-employment. It's the Christmas present from the Workers' Party and Freddy de Ruiter. Not only does the Workers' Party make an unfair scheme even more unfair. We are also wondering whether the Workers' Party has any impact on this. According to our calculations, it looks like the Workers' Party lacks over 100 million. kr, and it would therefore be nice if we could get an explanation of how the Workers' Party has been invading to maintain the diagnostic list and at the same time fund the important escalation plan for rehabilitation. Finally, with regard to the proposals that have been put forward in the Chamber today, the Right will vote against them. I am not going to explain everything, but with regard to the proposals from the Central Party, we are wondering why this has not been part of the committee's proceedings. It is a budget that has been there since October. We believe it is too early to assess these synergies related to Norwegian health archives, and that ICT systems will be placed under the new Directorate for eHealth. When it comes to research, we believe that it needs to be assessed by those who actually assess where and how to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1230	I got a certain need to talk about waiting times and waiting lists, because there's been a debate that's almost happening on another planet. When we hear the Minister of Health and the Government's parties talk about this, it would be thought that what happened in ours had not been achieved, as the hospitals themselves and the Medisin Day revealed that it looks a little different in reality as regards waiting times and waiting lists, than the official statistics show. So in the fall we were told that 160,000 patients are on internal lists in hospitals and are being pushed on in patient treatment. These are patients who are not reflected in official statistics. The Health Minister then went out and admitted that the hospitals probably had a logistical problem. He may be right about that, but I think the Minister of Health also has an explanation problem. For example, the number of 80,000 fewer patients waiting for treatment, what kind of numbers are there – or 80,000 in queue, which he is talking about? The number of patients waiting for treatment says that the Norwegian patient registry has nothing to say about the quality of treatment in Norwegian hospitals. That number can be high, and it can be low. And both of these can be positive or negative, whichever is behind those numbers. What we have to look at is this: is there a good match between the number of patients in the hospitals and the resources we provide? That's what we have to ask. And how do we see that? We look at a lot of things, but we see it essentially on three things. One is the waiting times — real waiting times throughout the patient’s course. The second is the quality of treatment, and the third is how hospitals communicate with patients. When it comes to the last thing, I think most people will admit that we have a lot to go on. We have to keep looking at the quality and verify that it's good enough. It is high in Norwegian hospitals, but we have to test it all the time. Then it's the waiting. It is true that the waiting times that we can measure – and that is mainly from referral sent to the first consultation – have decreased. They have fallen from 2010 to 2010, not 2013. That year is not a coincidence, because it was the year that all health care businesses were in balance again – after we had been struggling with a hospital economy that we got caught in 2005. And not only that, we also got a roof on the number of treatments. Here we have answered that question that the Minister of Health would not answer: it was the civil government that introduced a ceiling on the number of treatments in 2004. I would like the Minister of Health to explain why this ceiling was introduced in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1244	Cancer is one of the diagnostics that increases most. Fortunately, there has been a radical development in treatment provision. Proton therapy is more accurate than radiation therapy. There will be fewer sensitisation and fewer side effects and thus better for the individual patient and also socio-economic by reducing the impact on the future level of function. Just as the regular radiation therapy service we have today is decentralised, so we want the proton therapy service to be decentralised. Initially, you want such an offer in each health region, but professionally it is recommended to start up in Health South-East and Health West. That's where we have the two strongest professional environments, and it's important that they can complement each other in the development of a Norwegian proton therapy service. Health Bergen is far ahead professionally, perhaps far ahead. They already have the plot ready and have a gift of 250 million. kr that can only be used for this purpose. The budget agreement states that two proton therapy centres are to be planned, but are to be built before 2022, while a majority comment was made during the Committee's proceedings, stating that there is still a desire to establish two proton therapy centres in parallel, in two different hospitals. This we think is important, professionally speaking. Although Bergen is the most advanced, the largest population in Oslo, and it is important that these two environments develop professionally. Sweden has already put its proton therapy centre in place. There is no reason for Norway to hold back, especially in an area where, as I said at the outset, the number of cancer diagnoses is increasing, but also in an area where Norway is generally well ahead. It is a little strange that here one chooses to break with the form of funding that has been put in place – perhaps one of the main reasons why one has gained control of the economy in hospitals – by introducing an investment grant only for this purpose and not for others. I think it will have the effect of showing this when you have to build other things later. It's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1254	The most important thing is that we now base the majority comment, that we plan for two, and that we come back to the next budget and see that there can be two centres by 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1258	The budget agreement gave a cut on the proposed frame of almost half a billion, we've heard that many times today. These are facts, and it's not useful to deny it, even though there are too many today are unpleasant. This will make a worse offer. Hospitals face major economic challenges. We know that the population is getting older, and we know that the disease picture is changing. This is precious. In addition, hospitals shall offer and pay for new and expensive medicines. The Labour Party believes that the proposed budget puts hospitals in a more difficult situation. It is a paradox that despite record oil money usage in the budget and a sharp increase in profits from state companies, the Right does not give priority to its clearest promise to the country's hospitals and patients. This is unwise politics. I myself met parts of the North Norway bench with Health North a few weeks ago. It was before the agreement was known and the cuts came. There's a demanding budgetary process, and there's no doubt that there's a big difference between getting a cut of 55 million. NOK to Health North and to get SEK 184 million. kr more, which is the difference between the conciliation and the budget of the Workers' Party, which has a budget of 1,5 billion. kr more to the hospitals. At the same meeting, new air ambulances were discussed. Because of economics, Helgeland now gets a smaller helicopter than it is today, with less space and lower cruising speeds. The answer from Health Nord was that this was justified in the economy. A larger helicopter would cost $25 million. kr more. It has also been planned to station an ambulance jet in North Norway, not least in view of the preparedness for Svalbard. But here too, the economy became crucial. It would've cost $65 million. kr more on a separate jet plane in North Norway. Now the solution is that you have to charge this jet plane from the Gardermo. Changes have also been made to the car ambulance service in Helgeland. The economy was also crucial here. These are just a few examples from Health North. We were also told that we were after the Swedes on robotization. The Swedish have come further with welfare technology than Norway. Also here was one of the reasons the economy. The agreement will bring significantly less to health businesses, and this will mean something both for patients and for employees, and not least for the pace of digitisation. There is a large difference in the offer between the settlement and the budget of the Workers' Party. Health south-east would get 767 million. NOK more, but now cut by 229 million. kr. Health West would get 271 million. kr more, but now get a cut of 81 million. kr. Health Mid-Norway would have gotten 204 million. kr more, but now get a cut of 61 million. kr. And, as I said, Health Nord would get 184 million. kr more with our budget, but now cut by 55 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1277	This time, too, the government parties and the cooperation parties agreed on little thought-out cut-off proposals in the budgetary conciliation round. Two years ago we got the bag tax, it was never introduced. Last year the air passenger fee came, and several hundred jobs on Rygge were lost. So this year it's the hospital's turn. Please, 427 million. kr less is the Christmas present to the country’s hospital. With the best wishes for Christmas and the next year! Greetings Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left. These cuts are so large that they are likely to reduce patient treatment. We know that hospitals are facing major economic challenges: the population is getting older, and the disease situation is changing. This is precious. In addition, hospitals shall offer and pay for new and expensive medicines. The Labour Party considers that the submitted budgetary decision puts hospitals in a very difficult situation. Now employees have to run faster and work faster. The Medical Association and the Nursing Association are raging. In spite of record oil spending and a sharp increase in profits from state companies, the Right is unable to keep its clear promise to the country's hospitals and patients. When Health Mid-Norway is going to make the budget for next year, St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim and the others in the company has $61 million. kr less to walk with. Psychiatry has never been away. I don't understand how the representatives of the Right in the South Trøndelag can defend this. I thought we mutually agreed to build St. Olav's Hospital up, not down. The director of St. Olav's Hospital, Nils Kvernmo, says that the extra cut means a lot to the hospital, and that it hits them hard: ‘We have been streamlining for 10 years and improving productivity by 40 to 50 per cent. There is a manifest imbalance between the level of ambition of specialist health services and simultaneous migration requirements.» It means something who's in charge of this country. South-Tronde Teams don't need big tax cuts to them most of the time. They need a government that prioritises St. Olav's Hospital and Middle Norse patients. With the Workers' Party at the rudder, Health Mid-Norway would receive 204 million. kr more. Instead, the government has allowed the oil money to flow directly into their pockets with the most from before. Now it's more true than before. Norway needs a new majority, and the South-Trøndelag needs a new government to bet in hospitals and to keep what they promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1300	In a large budget, it's often the small things that might be overlooked, which actually means most to people out there. The cultural walking stick is such a thing. Having access to and having cultural activities in different forms – whether it's children's theaters or more professional practitioners in song and music, or it's simply a reading from a book you like, or a poem that reminds you of something from your home, where you come from – is of great importance to the quality of life of all of us. Experienced culture brings better health and better well-being. That's what research has shown us for a long time, and if we think about it, it's quite obvious. The fact that everyone should have access to art and culture regardless of background, health and wallet is a clear guide to the Cultural Policy of the Workers' Party. That is why we have given priority to universal Community schemes which are building thresholds such as the cultural niche package in kindergarten, the cultural school bag in school and also the cultural spa. It was introduced when we were in government in 2007 and based on the idea that older people or others who are not so easily able to visit ordinary cultural services themselves need and have the same right to artistic and cultural experiences as all of us. Then the government with the Right and the Advance Party proposed to wind up the entire scheme in 2015. Until then, the scheme had given older people in 387 municipalities cultural experiences of great value, vitality and health. The case created, naturally enough, major reactions when it was even suggested that the employees, the nurses and the caregivers, could even take over the tasks of professional cultural workers in the past. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left managed to save the'spare stick' ashore, but now the money that came from the health and cultural budget is inside the municipal framework. And as with everything else that disappears into the big swallow, it is now completely impossible to say how the scheme is used around the municipalities. But that the offer is weakened as a result of that grip, there is little doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1310	We in the Workers' Party will invest in several schemes such as the'spare stock'. We will fight against all attempts to cut in those kinds of schemes, and we will have the cultural spaser stick out of the municipal framework and into the budget again. It is sad that a government with record oil money use cuts and puts schemes like the Cultural Spaserstick at risk. It's unsocial, petty and wrong, but it only merges into the array of such priorities of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1314	Health Minister Höie's inability to follow up his own election promises has been mentioned several times in the debate. It's really not so very strange, because you can eventually see all the broken promises from today's government as synonymous with some of the things that are the basis of the government's values. When Høre's Vice-Chairman, current Minister of Health and Care Bent Höie, promised 12 billion. kr more to the hospitals in the 2013 election campaign, many believed it. But three years after the election vows were given, there are now many places around the country experiencing this loathing on the body. The hospital Telemark is no exception and is now in a very difficult and serious economic situation. But it's not just at the Hospital Telemark, it's at the Borgestadklinik in Telemark, and it's at the Bethany Hospital in Telemark. But in the Hospital Telemark, they're going to cut between 60 and 70 million by next year. SEK and in subsequent years SEK 250 million. kr. In the Hospital Telemark they were early out to adopt a development plan. The result of the development plan is two closed local hospitals, increased pressure on remaining departments and an out-of-control economy. There are continuous discussions. The working party feared it when the development plan was adopted and verified at the business meeting. That is why we have been promoting several proposals that have just been asked by the government to follow the situation very closely and to ensure that there was an economic space for good implementation of the development plan. But we spoke then – and suggested – to deaf ears. Now in retrospect, we see the consequences. The Managing Director has withdrawn and left the position because of the situation, the Chairperson has had to leave because of the situation, and Health Minister Höie, as indirectly verified the development plan, should perhaps also take the consequences of that situation. It is very serious, and it is a very difficult situation at the Hospital Telemark. Now the new director is in place. One can expect a new Executive Director to be in place in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1324	Direct lifting and failure to follow-up are the causes of the situation. One may at least now expect, perhaps, that the health minister will follow the situation and take responsibility for what he did at the corporate meeting when he indirectly approved the development plan, and that he will provide the hospital with sufficient room for action in a demanding economic time and will ensure that investments can come, in line with what has been foreseen. But so far, the only thing you're experiencing in Telemark now is a three-year project with a shift from today's government in terms of hospitals and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1327	I'm not sure I can comment on it with Christmas gifts, so I might come back to that in a later article. Children, young people and adults with lifelong needs and a high level of assistance are far too neglected by the auxiliaries. I note in the last few days' debate on BPA, which is just one of many examples that everything is not as it should be. The challenge is that we have neither a specialist health service nor municipalities that are particularly concerned with ensuring that these inhabitants and their parents have a good life. Let me first take a visit to the specialist health service. After many conversations with parents, users, user organisations, employees and hospital managers, it seems clear that the specialist healthcare service is trying to shift away as much of its responsibilities as possible. We need to clarify the responsibility of the specialist health service for the diagnosis, treatment, follow-up and guidance of users, parents and municipalities. Unfortunately, many, especially children and young people in this category, may appear to be seriously neglected by hospitals. In many municipalities, the picture is gloomy. The list of challenges is long. Keywords are BPA, relief, care pay, coordinator, accommodation, nursery services, SFO services, school services, etc. We need an even clearer regulation, which ensures equivalent, coordinated and good services to the most vulnerable and their families. But we also need supervision that is much more closely following up this area. Today, unfortunately, the statesmen do not want to deal with these issues, and when they do, they cover behind definitions such as ‘responsible offer’ and ‘local freedom of action’ — without going into reality. This is unacceptable. One way out of this mess will be, among other things. follow-up to the newly issued NOU on the same line – eight commitments to realise fundamental rights of persons with development disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1338	To the phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation contained in the budget proposal: the Central Party proposes that that plan be sent back to the Government. It got very strong criticism in the hearing. He's a little bit concrete, he's not funded, and one sends the bill to the patients by introducing property. In the case of day-to-day activities, many of which have been inside, the Central Party proposes that the rate of increase should be 50 pst. That's the only right thing to do. Last year, two-thirds of the indebtedness went back to the state because it stood untouched. The municipalities don't use it, so we have to do better. This was suggested by the Centre Party two years ago, and now the plural should look at this. When it comes to the golden rule that growth before AIDS and mental health should be greater than growth before somaticness, I think it is alarming that the pluralist parties at all dare to use this rule as evidence of the commitment to drugs and psychiatry, for it has been in place for three years, but it has not worked for three years. And when the director of the St. Olav Hospital of the NRK asks if the rule can be interpreted so that it is fulfilled if the enterprise cuts less in the psychiatry than in the somatic state, it shows how crazy this has gone. The Minister for Health did not mention in his statement the words ‘public health’ or ‘prevention’ in one word, and it is not in the first budget debate that it has happened. The government is going to develop the patient’s health care, and then I understand that patients are important. The center party will develop people's health care, and there's something far more than treating patients. We want equivalent health services, and we want decentralised health services, which is the basis of our whole solidarity society. When it comes to the hospital budget, there is a lot of talk about it today. The centre party has a 1.4-billion-dollar priority. SEK more, which covers 500 million. DKK to local hospital, 100 million. DKK for food supply, 100 million. kr for alcohol and psychiatry and 100 million. kr to more rotational and educational settings. But I'm startled when I'm listening to the debate today, that someone is wearing a skyscraper when it comes to what's actually happening out there. In companies after businesses, they plan to cut back next year, they plan to bring down annual work, and it happens all over the country. Is the plural understood with this? I'm just asking. Finally, Aasland, the Labour Party could have done something else in this case if it wanted to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1353	Health Nord has adopted a new scheme for ambulance helicopters between 2018 and 2024. It means a worse offer in North Norway. Doctors say the offer will be set back a year. The Health Minister puts his hands together and says that this is the responsibility of the health company. There are special challenges in North Norway, we know that that lives there. There are huge distances, areas that are sparsely populated, and we don't have so many hospitals – naturally enough. But then it doesn't keep up with normal ambulances. Therefore, in order to ensure a good enough health supply, we have systematically developed the air ambulance. It's obvious that you can't drive anyone in a regular ambulance from the lake to Tromsø – it's 760 kilometers to drive. But the government is now building up this offer, which we've spent years building up. From 2018 there will be small helicopters in both Brønnøysund and Evenes in the Nordland counties. The small helicopters fly slower, they have poorer lifting skills, and they are more sensitive to bad weather. They cannot take dog equipasses and other response personnel with them without delay. The ability to fly out diving teams is limited, firefighters with cutting equipment cannot be taken to accident sites, the possibility to fly en route children is weakened, and patients who need heart-pulmonary machinery no longer receive that offer. What will the reduced speed of 2018 for these helicopters mean for example? the health region? It has been shown to be approximately 17 pst. lower airspeed. Rapid ambulance helicopters are becoming increasingly important as several hyperacute medical conditions can be treated in hospitals. In the event of an acute myocardial infarction, standard treatment is now that the patient is going to a specialised hospital ward as soon as possible to obtain the blockage of the narrow vein. For the population of Helgeland, there are today such centres in Trondheim and in Tromsø, 365 kilometres and 414 kilometres respectively – in the air - from a place like Mo in Rana. For the past 15 years, patients with strokes have been able to get blood-dissolved medicine. Now there's a new revolution in stroke therapy. This means that patients with large strokes may be offered a collection of the blood clot that has caused the stroke. That offer is established in Trondheim and Tromsø. Both acute myocardial infarction and stroke are examples of hyperacute medical conditions where every minute counts to prevent cardiac and brain cell mass death. Other types of acute conditions with similar requirements for highly specialised hospitals are serious birth-related and premature neonatal injuries and complications. In 2008, we got a lift for the Brønnøysund base, which turned out to be justifiable and forward-looking, when we got a big helicopter. Replacing this quality in 2018 by a helicopter type that is the smallest and slowest that has ever operated out of Brønnøysund is pointless and backward. Health Nord saves money, but it's the people of Helgeland who don't get to the same extent that the rest of the country gains from significant medical innovations. We who live in North Norway need a health service as well as the rest of the country. It requires other solutions, adapted to the challenges of the continent, such as a robust and robust air ambulance service. The offer must then be developed, not built down, as this government puts it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1368	Closeness to hospitals is a quality in itself, especially for elderly patients, and makes it easier to cooperate with community health services. The centre will strengthen the ability of local hospitals to treat the most common conditions and diseases and to maintain emergency surgery as part of their broad competence. That's why we're strengthening the hospital economy by 1 billion. in addition to the Government's proposal. Following the budgetary agreement, it increased to 1.4 billion. kr. 500 million. These are justified in the need to develop the local hospital service and to strengthen the ambulance service in the districts. Today, two out of three patients admitted to hospital are treated at the local hospital level. Today, ambulances disappear in many places. It's not durable. Security and proximity are incredibly important, and prehospital services need to be strengthened. It's about car ambulance, it's about boat, it's about helicopter, and it's about airplanes. We need all those elements to make sure that people quickly get to lifesaving treatment. Therefore, the ambulance service needs to be expanded, not centralised, as we see now, and it is absolutely necessary that the response times are followed up and legalised. I wonder many times when I am out driving along the roads in wintertime. There are so many near-accidents and so many accidents. It's just a hell of a lot of times that you're hiding. A serious accident in which there is great damage and where you do not have a real helicopter, and where you do not have closeness to the ambulance and have to wait, can have fatal consequences. That's why the ambulance service is incredibly important, and it's crazy to see all the cuts that are, not just in Northland, not just in Helgeland, where I come from, but many places around the country. I must say that I am amazed that you will not continue the Klara Klock project, which has lived for many years and which has worked well. The center part wants it to continue, and we're prioritizing 3 million. NOK to this. Finally, I think it is rather hard not to strengthen the TT system. Organised transport for users with special needs is incredibly important for people who need organised transport in order to be able to participate in society in the same way as everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1381	The working party's alternative budget is 1 billion. kr more to the hospitals for 2017 than the government has. As many have been involved, the Right promised before the election the same as the Workers' Party – 12 billion. kr more to hospitals over this four-year period. The Labour Party has followed up its promises, but the government has not. I guess they're about. Three million. kr during its promise for the entire period. The budget conciliation exacerbated the sadding situation of hospitals even more. About half a billion are cut into new efficiency measures. This is a new big shot that the Workers' Party does not support – a bill that is now sending patients and those who work in hospitals. Southern hospitals are struggling financially, and large cuts in the number of posts are announced. For Sørlanden Hospital, the Workers' Party's proposal amounts to 1 billion. kr more and the new efficiency requirement together probably approx. 70 million. kr – money that hospitals in the South could spend on staff, equipment, new treatment methods and faster treatment. As I said, this creates major challenges for the three hospitals in the South. We have not long since also had a heated debate on Flekkefjord and functional distribution through the treatment of the national health and hospital plan. After this, a wide-ranging project group was set up, which was mandated to look at the overall emergency offer at Flekkefjord from 2018. A large majority have made their recommendation and these recommendations seem positive. However, I note that a small minority still refers to the government's original proposal and recommendation of 60 000 to 80 000 inhabitants to perform emergency surgery, based on the volume and quality that should be taken into account. In my opinion, the minister should inform us that this should not be a criterion after the examination of the plan in Stortinget. I note that the budgetary agreement that exists today is not a boost for the development of the Sørland hospital in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1390	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1395	A consensus committee suggests that ‘The government is asking the government to ensure a solution that contributes to the provision of a public and national access to sound, safe and quality-proof information to all medicinal products in routine use for children’. To the Council of State Höie: The answer given in the change of line did not seem acceptable to me. The government is now asking for a solution, and then I thought the answer – that one should ask some people to consider this further – is not acceptable, because this is urgent, and one must find a solution now, before New Year’s. To the representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen on our two loose proposals on the health archive: this is a matter that goes on several committees. We're not on the Culture Committee, so we're taking it now on the Health Committee. It is the case that there is a consensus in the proposal to facilitate research and user competence before ICT, so one voices for it. At least we have to do that. Otherwise, we support our loose proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1407	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1412	Back to the debate on how we spend the money: the situation today is that there are too many people in hospitals that should not be there. It's because we don't manage to prevent, detect early enough and institute treatment early enough. Dialysis rooms around Norwegian hospitals are being filled up. Too many people get dialysis because of diabetes, which I've been into, too many have to amputate for that reason, and too many become blind and faint for that reason. The left went through the national test of distance tracking. That shows that 40 pst. fewer need to be hospitalised. So we have a lot to go on. So to the representatives of Aasrud and Aasland in the case of the Hospital Inland, the Hospital Telemark and Sørlanden Hospital: Why not look at the coordination of the Hospital Telemark and the Hospital in Vestfold? It was 15 years since Uppland and Hedmark were told to operate eight hospitals together. Why is Telemark going to operate a hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1419	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1424	When the Workers' Party is talking about betrayal and breach of promises in the hospital economy, they really have to look in the mirror. I want to mention the company Vestre Viken. In 2011, the hospital lacked an invasion of 190 million. kr. The county called for freshness. Where was the indignation of the Workers' Party and the Center Party? Away. We don't need a new government, because we know what it means -- increased cows, fewer rights to patients, less money for research, more faith in systems and the state, and less faith in patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1429	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1434	I'm concerned about what values we build on the health sector and our health system. The patient's health care, as the government defines it, is something quite different from what the Workers' Party puts in it. We're talking about patients' health care. We're talking about the people's health system, as the Center Party does. And we're talking about strengthening our common healthcare. Patients in a market become customers, and then it is the strongest right – the one who has the toughest relatives and who lives most centrally. It is the patient who will win out in a system where there will be more and more privatisation and market. And free treatment choices, as it is rigged under government, support such a development. We're not going to reverse any patient rights or right to election when we get to the government offices in 2017. What we're going to reverse is the right of private individuals to take advantage of state resources granted to health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1441	The representative Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1447	The representatives of the working party continue to produce it as if the hospital budgets were being cut. That's obviously wrong. It won't be more accurate if it repeats and repeats.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1451	Hospital budgets for 2017 are strengthened by 1.5 billion. kr, with increased patient activity of 2.1 pst. – the same level as the Workers' Party was at during its period. To explain to the Labour Party that the hospital budgets are being added on and not cut next year, it is tempting to say, as former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said, that if one goes into a lift and presses on the seventh floor, but the lift stops in the sixth, then the lift still goes up – not down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1454	Firstly, I hope it will not happen that the Workers' Party will enter the government offices in 2017. Again: I still hope that the government that sits will continue to sit. To the representative of Kjenseth, I have to say that Telemark's view is that we do not want to merge the hospital areas of Vestfold and Telemark, so there I disagree very much with the representative from the left. But it was the representative Trettebergstuen who made me take the floor – after hearing her in this room. She is very sceptical that money has gone into the municipal framework, because then they disappear and you don't know exactly what to spend them on. I record that in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, a very large amount of money has now been proposed for municipalities to choose what to spend the money on. Then it's a little strange that the Workers' Party wants it to be a separate item, while for example. care for the elderly, to ensure safe and dignified care for the elderly, is not important enough for the Workers' Party to say – as the Progress Party – that there should be government funding, and here a state test system should be tested, which is about something more, for there is a system of several earmarked funds to ensure a good, safe and dignified old age and care for the elderly. That's kind of weird. When the Labour Party does not want to look at the possibility of saying that there must be government funding in the care of the elderly, they must be very satisfied with the situation as it is out there. I want to draw up a few examples. One is from my own home country, Telemark, from the municipality of Skien, where you think you give a safe, good and worthy old age. And yes, fortunately, in most cases. But there are also people who don't get the decent and good care for the elderly, for example. at the end of life. There has been a notice about Ester in Kragerø, who did not get the sick home place she asked for, and just before the weekend there was a report from Arendal about two older people who are not allowed to live together. The common denominator of all these three municipalities is that the Workers' Party governs and has the rapporteur in all. It may not be so strange that the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, says that the municipalities do not want this. No, unfortunately, with the background that over 200 of them are run by the Workers' Party, it may not be so strange. Had several of them been run by others, I think the result would have been something completely different. In my own municipality, there was one voice that did not involve a government funding of the care of the elderly, and many later said that they would like to join in and vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1467	It's 13.45. The meeting is cancelled for Stortingets Christmas munsj and will be set again at 5 p.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1484	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. We shall continue the debate on substance. 1st@item: inlistbox The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1496	First, a little visit to the representative Hoksrud and what was referred to about the care of the elderly in Arendal. That matter is seriously and thoroughly dealt with. It's all the parties in Arendal orientated about, including his party traps, and they have also had nothing to postpone on the treatment this case receives. Maybe that's not all that comes out in a media lookup either, just so that's said. In the case of the Right and Government Christmas gift to some of those who have the least in our society, and who are on the so-called diagnostic list, there are potentially 236,000, while there are 45,000 who are not there, but who should perhaps be inside. But it has never been a good distribution policy to take from those who have little, in order to finance actions for those who have little. Then maybe one should look at how one does this. We also see that the diagnostic list is not necessarily a permanent solution, but we want time to come up with good solutions that provide good protection systems for those who have the least and who have high disease costs. Then you do not charge those who have the least, a cost of NOK 2000 per night. It's a little Christmas present, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1503	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1509	That's not true when government representatives say that we, who want to keep the diagnostics list, push a lot of patients out. No, we don't, we fund it in our budget, so that those on the list get free physical therapy and more people get treatment. We've added 500 million. kr for this in SV's budget, so it's 500 million. kr more to that kind of treatment in our budget than it is with the government's arrangement. So to the local hospitals, which we've discussed very little. SV will take up the fight for them, because the large volume of treatment can take place in local hospitals. It's about the will and ability to bet and build security for further operations. It is then possible to recruit professionals in the local hospitals as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1515	It is important that money be earmarked for these different measures in the local government sector, because experience shows that without regard, it will not be the bet that has been promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1518	There has been a lot of discussion about hospitals today. I would like to remind you that the health budget has increased by 40 billion. kr since the acquisition of the Right-wing Party Government. 189 B.C.E. kr is proposed for health. It applies to all parties in the Health Committee, including the Government's proposals and what is adopted. When you hear the debate, it sounds like there's a big difference in how we bet on health. The device is slightly different. I could accept criticism of the hospital budgets if the red-green government had invested in the hospitals, but we had eight years of starvation of the hospitals, and there has been a lifting now with a new government. The Labour Party today is voting against giving free physical therapy to children and young people up to 16 years of age. The system they say is unfair, makes them even more unfair by increasing the burden on those who do not have an exemption. Then it becomes a little strange when the Workers' Party writes in their comments that they know that the scheme is unfair, but they still make it even more unfair. I am not going to cut the time any more, but I am just going to draw attention to the fact that there are two proposals from SV and two proposals from the Central Party that are new and promoted today, and I recommend the Group of the Progressive Party to vote against those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1529	There has been a lot of talk about weakening preparedness. There have been various hospitals like Flekkefjord, Arendal, Narvik, Gravdal, Odda and Stord. I remind you that this was adopted in the health and hospital plan, where there were a few parties that voted against, because we also wanted to have an emergency assessment of both medical and ambulance services and air ambulance services at the bottom before we start to drop emergency preparedness at the smaller hospitals. Therefore, I think it is a bit sought to say that the 200 posts to be cut in Health South are due to today's budget. It was actually a debate that went already this winter on the cutting down of 200 posts in Health South. So to the proposals that have come from the Central Party and SV. Christian People's Party supports proposal No. 1 from the Centre Party and not No 2, and do not support the proposals of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1538	I just want to answer some of the questions and comments that have come so far in the debate. First, to the discussion on Klara Klock, where it is presented as if children and young people are about to lose a digital health offer. That's not right, on the contrary. As we also see from statistics, the work on the youth health strategy showed that children and young people use Klara Klock less and less because they simply do not find out in the same way as before. They want one way in, and it's young.no, for all issues whether it's health, social, rights or other kinds of issues. That's also what we're now doing and we've given money to. We are in good dialogue with the municipality of Nordland, if they still want to be a possible provider of that type of service under young.no. But there is something the county council has to decide on. Then a number of representatives have been up and described differently in discussions that take place in different parts of the country. I would like to remind you that the Stortinget has dealt with the National Health and Hospital Plan. The National Health and Hospital Plan has set up a very clear mission for all health regions to start work on development plans, and the first one to be clarified in this context is the structure related to acute and food. It is the processes currently in progress but within the process and content requirements determined by the Storting through the National Health and Hospital Plan. This means that municipalities, patient organisations and professionals are now in working groups and are discussing this. That it's described in the media, I don't think anyone in this room should be surprised. It's actually a completely natural part of that we have open, democratic processes. However, the decisions to be taken during the spring related to these issues should, of course, be within the framework of the National Health and Hospital Plan. I'm not going to go into much of the discussion about hospital economy. Many have answered this earlier. There can be no doubt that hospitals will also grow in their economy in 2017. It comes to the top of three years of higher growth than hospitals have had in the past. The fact that there are individual hospitals and some places where one discusses challenges with the economy is also nothing new. It happens, for example. that both some departments and some hospitals spend more money than the Stortinget has granted, and then they have to deal with it by reducing their spending. That's the way it is in the other areas of society, and it's actually this room that decides how much money hospitals should spend. We do not want to get into a situation where enterprises under the state spend more money over time than the Stortinget has granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1549	Just a few brief comments on the debate from me. For example, in this case with youth health or a digital platform for young people wishing to come into contact with adults and professionals in order to discuss informally, Klara Clock 2.4 million visitors last year. There is no small side service established in Bodø. It is a very well visited site, and we believe that it is therefore incomprehensible that you do not choose to build on it when the government says that it is betting on the same thing. To the debate on the so-called diagnostic list: it is quite right, as others point out, that it is not perfect. It's designed in a way that we most probably wouldn't have designed it if we were to build this system from the very bottom of today. It is something other than being critical of the proposals that the government has made in a very short time, without the fact that, in our view and in the view of a large number of hearing bodies, it has been possible to promote concrete and generous protection arrangements for those people and patients who have the greatest medical needs and the weakest economy. Therefore, the solution that the Workers' Party points to in the setting is not perfect either. It is also not a permanent solution, as we see it, but a way to obtain economic space for action, for example. the revised national budget, in which we had hoped that the government could come back with another proposal in dialogue with those involved. To the question of containment and proceeds, we have tried, to the best of our ability, to calculate this home based on budgetary issues that have been delivered to the government. We've even gone to the step of increasing self-participation 2 for next year to meet this. Everything else zeroed, along with the question of what happens to patients' access to this type of service when the free card is now automated, it's tilted to get all the way back to zero. But we've done it to the best of our ability. Finally, about hospitals: I know a little bit about this debate, to be honest. I know it again after being in a party that had government power for many years as it approached a new choice after having managed for a while. In fact, different government parties – and I'm sure we did – are more concerned about how you have budgeted and made it look good on paper and on the Excel sheet, without entirely dealing with what's going on out there. The hospital budget to be adopted is about at the limit of covering the demographic changes next year. This means that any other quality improvement and any new action to be taken by hospitals, which we impose on them in this room, should be taken out by cutting, improving efficiency or increasing productivity. That's sadly the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1560	It was the post of the representative of Bollestad and the councillor of Höie that made me take the floor. The representative of Bollestad said there were a few parties who voted against the National Health and Hospital Plan. Yeah, that's also a way to say it. The centre party was one of those who voted against. The challenge is that the parties that voted in favour face massive resistance in all places where one wants to remove emergency surgery or other parts of emergency medicine, which are absolutely necessary for a full local hospital. I think that the representative of Bollestad should have a slightly greater respect for what is happening outside, and those who are affected there. Also in the representative's area, there are very strong figures for having full-fledged local hospitals, which have emergency surgery and emergency medicine, X-rays and anaesthesia. This is agreed. I just want to make sure that what the Council of State said is development plans. Yes, I hope that there will be real development plans, where those who get involved in it and spend a lot of their valuable working time – whether it's professionals or elected people – are actually listened to, so that there won't be skin processes, as there's been too much of it in this case. I just want to say that from the Central Party we're going to get involved alongside those who want security around the many large places that are now under pressure to lose their emergency offer, whether it's in the South or in the Lofoten, or it's those who want to get back a full-fledged emergency hospital in Kongsberg. This is nothing to germinate off. This is really serious. There are issues of security for people, and I am therefore a little sorry that the Christian People's Party does not have a little more respect for the central party's involvement from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1571	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1576	If the representative Lundteg feels that I was humiliating them, it was by no means the intention. The Christian People's Party is fully aware of the Central Party's commitment, and it has been the same on the part of the Christian People's Party. That's why the Christian People's Party went out of the talks that were between the government parties and the Left, because we couldn't stand for the emergency medical treatment that was adopted. Just so it's said from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1582	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1599	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1628	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1641	By the end of 2016, we experience that the world has become more insecure. The humanitarian disaster taking place in Aleppo shows how Syria has become the source of rivalry between global and regional major powers, with terrible consequences for the civilian population. I urge the government to increase the humanitarian allocations to Syria and neighbouring countries in order to prevent distress, regardless of religious affiliation. It was correct and important for Norway to participate as co-organiser of the international donors conference for Syria in London in February, but as co-organiser, it also has a special responsibility for helping donor countries to deliver on their commitments. In our part of the world, we experience fear of the refugee crisis – fear that helps to increase political forces that humiliate us under contradictions. Among our allies in Europe, democracy is under pressure. Nor in Norway should we be humiliated by the contradictions between people and religions, especially when you are a member of the government. Today, leadership and responsibility are needed, not politicians who contribute to contradictions and conflicts. A country such as Norway is completely dependent on international law and international driving rules. We cannot accept recourse to the principles of the Yalta Agreement, in which the major acts deal with control in their respective neighbourhoods. We cannot accept today's attempts to change Europe's borders by using military force. More trade and fewer barriers to trade were the key to economic growth after World War II. Trade between countries would contribute to both economic development and interdependence, so that there would be no war again in Europe. In recent years, several protests have been made against these ideas — the British announcement by the EU, Donald Trump's inauguration in the United States, and persistent protests from some trade unions against trade agreements such as TTIP and TiSA. This has put an end to the work on international trade agreements right now. If several countries start to protect their markets by imposing barriers to trade, we limit the possibility of economic progress. There is no advantage for Norway — a country that produces 37 million fish meals each day is totally dependent on international trade. Norway is a small country, but we can still play an important role in international policy. The peace process in Colombia shows that we too can be courageous. When we started working in Colombia, there was no one talking to the FARC guerrilla, but we dared to assist in conversations, along with Cuba. In a more insecure world, we must dare to engage more. The work on peace and reconciliation should therefore be strengthened. Our commitment to the UN must be strengthened. Once again, we're proposing to bind 1 pst. of gross national income for development aid. I wish that the Left and Christian People's Party would soon vote for this in the Grand Duchy. The Nordic regions are Norway’s main strategic focus, not just one of the most important, as the government parties are involved in the Committee’s decision-making process. The working party also takes on the consequences of this priority and is committed to increasing the allocation of north-eastern actions. In the north, we need more dialogue, more cooperation and new initiatives. I would like the government to do more to support this cooperation across the borders of the north. It was necessary to increase the defence budget by more than the government proposed. Therefore, the Labour Party concluded an agreement with the government on the long-term plan, which contributed to the increased defence budget with measures in particular in North Norway. The 300-million increase. kr represents 6 billion accumulated over the twenty-year period of the long-term plan. kr more to the Defence. Throughout this ageing period, the defence has been subjected to the government’s so-called red tape and efficiency reform — in reality, a flat cut in the entire defence. I think efficiency is very important, but it works best when the defense itself can redeploy these funds to priority investments and investments. The agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party prevented the government from implementing additional cuts in this area. That's good. At a time when we must both deal with unforeseeableness and upgrading from the east and receive increased responsibility for security in the Middle East, we need broad solutions in defence policy. Several communities are affected by the changes adopted in the long-term plan, but in defence policy we must take into account the operational capacity of the defence before all other purposes. However, the community needs to be set up when local communities are affected. Therefore, from the Labour Party, we are already entering the state budget for 2017 to allocate 75 million. Extra kroner for conversions to Andøy Municipality. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the government and Norwegian foreign service for the work that has been done to restore normal relations with China. The clarification we received today shows that it has been absolutely necessary to spend time. New opportunities are now opening up for Norway, not least for Norwegian businesses, but also for wider societal interests. In our world today, it is important for Norway to have full diplomatic relations with China, the world's second largest economy and the world's most populous country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1669	While we have our budget debate, there are terrible atrocities in Syria. I think that's why it's natural to stop a little bit by it. The bloodbath in Aleppo, as we look at the news, must stop. Reports from the United Nations on the regular execution of both civil and auxiliary workers give rise to deep concern. But let us now hope that the agreement on the evacuation of East Aleppo will be respected. The agreement shall require both civil and insurgent forces to leave the controlled part. The government has increased humanitarian aid by 50 p.m. since 2013. A significant part of the increase is aimed at helping the Syrian population and the refugees in neighbouring countries. That's a total of 5 billion. for humanitarian aid under next year's budget. In addition, we participate in the coalition which, at the request of the United Nations, is training groups to combat ISIL and their atrocities both in Syria and in Iraq. NATO is now turning from a time of participation in major international operations outside NATO territory to a new and long-term normalization, with a focus on collective defence. NATO is now working on strengthening the Alliance's capacity for deterrence and defence. The government is intensifying efforts to strengthen NATO’s maritime facilities, focusing on the challenges of the North Atlantic. It's also interesting that the Arctic has become an increasing area of interest. It serves Norway. Today’s security policy image is more demanding than a few years ago, so NATO and the EU need to work together to address all scenarios. After the EU came up with its safety strategy for the summer, we see closer and closer cooperation between NATO and the EU. It is now becoming more important to find the most efficient use of resources to avoid duplication of capacities. Today we are debating the first defence budget in the new long term. With this budget, the change in price has begun. It implies a historic commitment to the Defence. It is important to bear in mind, when discussing the economic framework underpinning the new long-term plan, that the long-term plan proposed adding 165 billion to the defence sector. Healthy resources, while the sector itself was to release and re-prioritize 40 billion. SEK – in other words, to meet a total additional need for 205 billion. NOK over 20 years. This was also decided by Stortinget. The growth we are now looking at strategic capacities is a very important part of LTP, and it is therefore gratifying that the government has decided to acquire five new Poseidon surveillance aircraft. This will continue a maritime monitoring capacity that can meet current and future challenges. This continuation of activity since 1960 with Norwegian aircraft will help to ensure continued stability and predictability in our areas as well as the needs of our own and allies. P-8A Poseidon is a formidable platform for monitoring sea areas and will provide both Norwegian and Allied, civil and military authorities with a good basis for decisions. With modern sensors and weapons, the new Poseidon planes will represent a completely renewed platform. The last year has given us a series of rapid changes – brexit in June, the presidential election in the United States in November and a number of other choices that have given economic and geopolitical results. Then it is important to keep the alliances and forms of cooperation on which we have built our security and secured our interests. Norway's relationship with the EU is good and trust-based. With regard to Brexit and Norway’s relationship with the United Kingdom, we record good meetings and dialogue between governments in both countries. I would also like briefly to comment on the joyous news of a full normalization of our political and diplomatic relations with China. I actually enjoyed being the first parliamentarian from Norway to visit China for six years, this summer. This offers great opportunities for cooperation, including bilateral, through the resumption of negotiations on a free trade agreement, the normalisation of Norwegian exports to China and technical cooperation on a number of issues, including climate and the Arctic. The good dialogue Norway had in the past on human rights issues is also important to re-examine. Finally, it is in place to thank Norwegian soldiers who have served and serve on behalf of Norway in Afghanistan, Mali, Jordan, Iraq and elsewhere. They are making a very important effort and are contributing to the follow-up to the security policy objectives of the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1694	Thank you for your lunch. I initially thought I would have 10 minutes of speaking time, but now I think I'm going to divide this into two and take a three minute second. I will do as the previous speakers and thank the government and the diplomatic corps for the efforts that have made us get normal relations with China again. It is fantastically important, of course also for Norwegian business. China is a huge market with enormous numbers of people and a great opportunity for Norway. Business development in the private sector is crucial for economic development. Most jobs are created here. But profitable and long-term jobs are created not by financial contributions from the rest of the world, but primarily by internal processes. Economic progress also requires respect for ownership and the establishment of a stable tax system encouraging investment. Many countries need to restructure the governance structure in order to create more well-being for their citizens. No assistance will have a long-term effect until the countries themselves realise this. Unfortunately, developments are going in the wrong direction in many places, despite record foreign aid. Without respect for individual rights, economic development will not be possible. However, assistance may be a catalyst. In particular, students are given the opportunity to study and build their skills. It is therefore positive that the government has a main focus on education. However, in order to have the desired effect, the authorities themselves must take responsibility and facilitate the situation. Countries that do not respect the values underlying pluralism will experience stagnation, with the exception of countries that live by natural resources alone. To succeed, countries themselves must accept and facilitate values of freedom such as freedom of expression, equality, equality, including women's right to rule over their own sexuality and reproduction, religious freedom, including the right not to have a religion and the right to convert. Secular legal rules must be at the bottom – tolerance and pluralist democracy. Without such values at the bottom, countries will not succeed in creating a creative and innovative population. These freedoms are the very lifeblood of economic prosperity. It is not without reason that the countries that practice a dogmatic and political ideological version of Islam do not achieve the welfare and prosperity that we all want. Disfunctional societies are created. In these countries too, civil wars, ethnic conflicts and internal unrest occur most frequently, and then with a subsequent flow of refugees to countries that are just maintaining these values of freedom. This understanding must form the basis for Norwegian foreign policy in general and for Norwegian aid in particular. In the case of internal governance in Norway, it is positive that the government increases the red tape reform by 0.3pst. It is also positive that the entire Committee supports the examination of appropriations for the International Law and Policy Institute and that the Committee wants a broader review of the management of the grant scheme. This includes, of course, the information that VG provided yesterday related to Syslab International. At the same time, I would like to stress that Norway must avoid binding and financial transfers to party or political organisations and foundations, whether they are at home or out. With regard to Norway’s relationship with the EEA — to the great surprise of the Council of States, otherwise — it is very positive that the entire Committee has joined the Progress Party’s comment on a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement in order to ensure better conditions for Norway. It shows that all the parties are on the right side of history, and that supranationality has its limitations. Those who stumble over it can go to page 5 of the setting. I can read it out loud: ‘The Committee stresses that over time the EEA Agreement has had some negative consequences. The Committee points out that efforts will be made to improve the conditions of the EEA Agreement with a view to ensuring better Norwegian interests.» It's very positive. The defence budget is the first year of the long-term plan and initiates the escalation plan with a real commitment to the defence. The defence will be rebuilt in all areas and strategic capacities will be acquired that will make the defence robust for its own defence and also for the reception of allied forces. The signals from the newly elected President of the United States, later underlined by the Secretary-General of NATO, most likely mean that all NATO member countries will have to increase their financial contribution to the Alliance over time. These signals are transmitted at the same time as new forces in Washington are in a process of evaluating US strategic interests. Global alliances are moving, and it is no longer obvious who is who – who is friend, and who is enemy. However, there is little doubt that the fight against the extremists in ISIL will continue to be too strong, as Norway also contributes. The challenge, however, is that the loyalty of the opposing parties, both in Iraq and Syria, is changing. Different Muslim affiliations and different degrees of Islamic fundamentalism make the parties easily influential. The fight against ISIL is therefore also a struggle to overcome the warring parties’ hearts and minds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1727	The representative of Tybring-Gjedde had a somewhat free interpretation of the EEA text in the budget position. There are some texts at least Christian People's Party is used to align themselves a little more with regulations than others, but we do have the specialist councils in this area in the Chamber, so I expect her to give us some fun words about this when she gets the word a little later. At the beginning of the 21st century, we could rejoice that the trend showed fewer wars and conflicts and progress for democracy in the world community. The last few years show that it is not obvious that this progress is continuing. It requires international efforts to ensure world peace, to bring more and more people out of extreme poverty and need and to address global climate challenges. The current budget of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence gives us the power to act on these challenges, and we get resources to ensure that our national interests are taken care of in the international context of which we are part. Most of the money is given to our military defense. The defence budget is approaching 50 billion. kr annually. The Defence Framework is the largest option in the budget setting. The Christian People's Party is in the plurality that today decides to strengthen the proposal by 300 million. kr more than the government proposed, especially to strengthen the Army and the Home Guard, and we prevent the closure of the Coast Guard Command in North Norway. In the city we strengthen the defense in the north. This strength is only a warning of the rise in the defence sector. The new long-term plan for Defence means increasing defence rights, but unfortunately we have to wait until autumn 2017 to clarify important investments in rural power. The defense won't be holistic without it. We also secure a strong development budget. 1 pst. of gross national income yields muscles in the fight against poverty. We need international efforts to promote development, democracy and human rights, the rule of law and peaceful conflict resolution. On the threshold of 2017, we see how terrible the situation can be when the logic of war takes over and the humanitarian concerns are pushed into the background. Tragedy in Aleppo is a brutal illustration of this. The Assad regime has by means of Russian air force and Iranian-supported militias shot insurrection controlled parts of this million city in fills. Now, out of the ruins, desperate people are trying to evacuate. Green buses should transport them. But there have been shots at many buses. When the buses leave the war zone, they travel to the rebel-controlled city of Idlib. Maybe it's just a warning that the military battle is just moving there. In that case, they will only be transported to what may become a new dead end. Rarely have we seen such a great need to find a peaceful solution to a battle, instead of a armed struggle at the end. The humanitarian crisis saw Syria at the top of the UN Emergency Apples. Fortunately, we have an aid budget that gives us the power to act to help so monar. At the same time, we must not forget other areas of crisis that are extremely harsh, for example. in sub-Saharan Africa and Yemen. The UN Emergency Apples are also heavily underfunded there. In many of the world’s crisis areas, short-term, emergency assistance is not an adequate response to the challenge. Should they permanently come out of conflict and distress, long-term development assistance and state building is required. Otherwise the road is short to new crises. The action on education and health has been reinforced during this ageing period. That's good. At the same time, we are strengthening the budget for economic development, job creation and food production, and civil society assistance is increasing by 120 million. kr. It makes the budget more consistent with the Christian People's Party's priorities. The committee leader, Anniken Huitfeldt, called for the Christian People's Party's support for the Workers' Party's proposal for 1 pst. assistance. On this good international day of Norway, I can see that the Christian People's Party will support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1752	It's good news that we're getting our relationship to China normalized. It might mean that the next time this representative searches for a visa, I get it. I had to sit home while the representative Halleraker went to the NATO meeting this summer, probably because I sat in a red-green government that ruled while a peace prize was awarded by a government. But Norway must not stop being critical where we need to be critical, even in the future. If one does, Norway has lost anyway. But it's positive, what's happened. It's not as positive as we've seen in Syria. It is good that a co-consultant's Security Council has now agreed that UN observers should monitor the evacuation of civilians and rebels from Aleppo, but it is not good that Syria has entered a game between regional forces and major powers. Kids, grown-ups and old-timers, big naud. No one can avoid being touched by images from Aleppo, Syria. Therefore, it is important that Norway takes advantage of all the opportunities to promote the United Nations and the important global role that the United Nations should and should have. There is a great need for help for many people who do not have enough food, water, medicine or health care both in Syria and in nearby areas. By strengthening the countries around us, in addition to Syria, we can provide the necessary assistance for those who can help in refugee camps and in their neighbourhoods in Syria. This increases the Central Party's support for emergency aid and humanitarian aid in our alternative budget. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde has a very positive interpretation of the EEA note. Of course, I support that interpretation and look forward to the fact that the Stortinget, which has now admitted that the EEA Agreement has a considerable negative impact, will, of course, follow the interest of the country in changing the EEA Agreement and get rid of these negative consequences, which the Central Party has seen for a long time, but there is clearly an awakening in this Chamber when others have also seen it. I have to give a big priority in a five-minute period of two things like this. It seems almost as if the Foreign Affairs Committee has been in a state of debate, as little time as we are going to spend on these matters. I also have to say a little about the defense. We have dealt with the long-term defence plan in the fall in an emergency. The center part fights hard for a stronger defense bet. What I think is absolutely necessary. The army is underfunded. The required investments The size was decided four years ago, not implemented by the government. Funding is not guaranteed through the next year’s government budget or in the proposal for a long-term plan. Air protection, working tanks and artillery – completely necessary capacities – are still lacking. Home security is also underfunded. The government doesn't have the power to fill in the Home Affairs region structure. More training and upgrading of weapons and equipment is required. The central party will not put down the Maritime Protection system the way the government and the people who form the plural will. We will also maintain our Coast Guard Command and important elements otherwise in the defence structure. The safety net for Norwegian defence is about priorities. It was today's government that committed Norway to the 2 pst. goal, but according to the Norwegian Union of Officers and others, this long-term plan does not lead us closer to that goal, on the contrary. Because about one-fifth of the licenses the government will give in taxes, the Senter Party in our alternative budget secures the investments needed to secure a strong army, strong home protection and stronger coastal defence. With the means we put into our alternative budget, we can start investments in combat air protection, artillery, tanks and command and control systems. Norway will be able to face a wide range of safety targets for years to come, for example. pressure on Norwegian territory, hybrid warfare, pressure on our sovereignty over Norwegian natural resources or extensive and coordinated terror. Common to all of these tacks is that if they are comprehensive enough, we need a defense with a wide range of capabilities, and not least a defense of Norwegian men and women with defence skills. We are gathering behind new fighter planes, new submarines and important elements to strengthen the Norwegian defence, but the long-term plan we have dealt with does not provide a basis for a holistic defence. It needs to be fixed and it needs to be done soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1769	I'm now just going to talk about the field of foreign affairs, and then either I or the representative Ola Elvestuen come back to the defense section in a three-minute term. It'll be a little bit in five minutes. Not everyone is looking forward to this Christmas. There are many situations that we now see playing out around the world that are about many who live in very vulnerable situations, but I think the situation in Syria is probably the one that affects us the most. Here we see that the entire international community is shaken. We see huge suffering unfolding in front of us, but many of us feel powerless about the situation people in Syria are today. Norway has made a great effort, but it is also a symbol of a world that is being paralysed, and major powers acting on different sides of a war that make the suffering enormous and the situation quite fixed. In that perspective, many of the debates we've had on the Stockholm pulpit this autumn seem rather debatable, but it shows how important it is to have an aid policy that reaches, and a foreign policy that prevents that kind of conflict and where Norway can actively contribute. The goal is to get to 1 pst. by GNI as our percentage of aid, and I can assure the representative of Huitfeldt that it will vote for today's vote. But it's not just about how much money we spend, it's about using the money properly, wisely and efficiently. Norway has gone from being a very poor country to being a very rich country. We know what it takes to do it. It is not the oil finds that make Norway a rich country, but a big one that has prioritised knowledge, education and health very high. There is a great deal that has pushed women's rights forward, so that women participate as actively as men in creating values in our society and in building a civil society that is involved in the development of the welfare state, but also in developing society in a way that allows people to contribute to the production and development of society at all times. These are the three keys that assistance is also about. Education, health, women's rights and civil society building are the keys to building a society from poverty to wealth. That was the solution for bringing Norway that way, and that is the solution for the other countries as well. We have reached a budgetary agreement with the government that also strengthens parts of which the Left has been particularly concerned, for example. action in the field of renewable energy, action against natural crime, which is an international problem and crime, and security of food security and climate change agriculture. It's going to be the key to coping with the climate change we know will, and the transitions of the poorest countries will have in that area. Unfortunately, it is the poorest that are going to notice climate change the most. In addition, the Left is pleased that we have strengthened our cultural work by 14 million. kr, and that we have strengthened the research. I think investing in foreign policy research is going to be important in the future in a world that is constantly changing. In that case, Norway must also have a research environment capable of providing knowledge to us to take decisions in foreign policy, including from a Norwegian perspective. As few mention Svalbard, I would like to point out that we received 2 million in the budget agreement with the government. kr extra for the nutritional adjustment of Svalbard, linked to the local government up there. Today, we spend about the same amount on paying Big Norwegian not to do anything that we pay to run the whole Svalbard community. That's about equal to the sum. The Svalbard community is going through a great transformation, and that's why we think it's important that they also get an economic space for the transition that's as big as what we've been willing to use in Great Norwegian so that they don't do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1784	The most important thing to know about the interwar period is perhaps that those who lived then actually believed that they lived in the post-war period. Many behaved like this for a long time in many countries until the accident was rediscovered. I'm not saying this because I think it's going to a new war, but because there are disturbing moves in our part of the world, in Europe, in a belt around Europe, in the middle of the great progress we're making. History repeatedly shows that it's not linear, that it's not just moving forward in the right direction. I think we're now facing some significant challenges in different fields around us. There is some of the backbone of the large increase in the development budget that SV has entered in its alternative budget. The biggest bet we're proposing is an increase of 1 billion. in the humanitarian effort. It's a voter when we read about what's happening in Aleppo today, knowing that over the years, the UNHCR, as such an important player, is so far away from meeting the need for funding in the region. I want to pay tribute to the government for the strong commitment to humanitarian action in the region, but it is still possible to do much more, and it is right that the representative Hareide had, that a number of other crises are forgotten in this – Yemen, others could be mentioned. We propose a strong strengthening of the core contributions to the UN organisations, which have fallen from Norway's side in recent years, and which are important for the long-term development effort for institution building, that countries can build up tax systems, democracy systems, functioning states – a very important part of the assistance – a commitment to peace and reconciliation and not least a strong commitment to the environment and climate beyond the government and the plurality of its budget. What often surprises people the most when I tell them from the defence and foreign field in the Stortinget, is when I tell them that for the budget this year, SV proposes to spend more money on both the Army and the Maritime Defense than the government with the Right and the Advance Party does. It is also repeated in the budget for 2017. The reason I think is a broad recognition that there is a need to strengthen our defence, especially because there are long-term changes in the image when there are challenges for us in the North: mineral resources, possible new sailing leases that can be commercially profitable, and Russia's more aggressive policy, which makes it necessary. That's the background of what we call a big bet on the central parts of the defense, and because we also see that we're going to go even more northward than we are now. I also want to spend a little bit of time on today's happy news, on the normalization of the relationship with China. I boasted of the government before today, and I will take advantage of the opportunity now to boast of the many who have worked year after year on this, represented by those who are in the diplomatic lodge, and many others. I also think it would have been wise to spend time until there was an opportunity where it was possible to get it. But I would also like to stress that the relationship between two countries must be based on mutual respect for the fact that a co-operator in the broad, roses when necessary, and criticises when it is factually correct. In short communication, there is a sentence that when a person reads it can be understood as an admission and an agreement to be restrained by critical comments. I argued that this was not the case, among other things. because I have seen that the Prime Minister in the media says that there have been no admittances, and because I believe it is absolutely necessary that two countries to cooperate must accept that it will be necessary to have a critical point of view on each other. I would like to take this up here and ask the EU Minister, who, for natural reasons, is here instead of the Minister for Foreign Affairs today, to confirm that the agreement that has been concluded, the text that has been published, does not imply any recognition, that we can now act in a different way to China than to other countries or in a different way than we have done before, if we want to make critical remarks. It is important for a small country to have a good relationship with China. We need to cooperate with them in all areas – it is in our interest – but it is also important that small countries do not let themselves be pressured to have a clear position. It will set a precedent in international policies that are unfortunate. I therefore ask the Council of State to address it in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1799	In recent decades, the world has experienced great progress, but recent years have shown that continued progress cannot be taken for granted. Tragedy in Syria weighs us all and demonstrates a foreign policy seriousness no one can run from. More than 130 million people around the world need emergency aid because of war, conflict and natural disasters. Lack of global problem solving and geopolitical imbalance increase uncertainty and unforeseeability. It snorts up under destructive forces spread in the Middle East and elsewhere. From international law to free trade, from human rights to humanitarian principles, several of the carriers in today's international order are under pressure. However, in an increasingly demanding foreign and security policy landscape, Norway leaves clear and important footprints. We are pursuing a foreign policy that promotes Norwegian interests and contributes to enhanced international cooperation, to stability, to peace, to development and to relief of distress. Our policies must be anchored in the values we share with our friends and allies. Our policies must take today’s major challenges seriously – and they have had consequences for the year’s budget. Acute and widespread crises in the Middle East and Africa mean that the government is following up and continuing the humanitarian power of the times in Norwegian foreign policy. The government’s overall contribution to humanitarian aid has increased by 50 pst. since 2014 and is over 5 billion. kr for 2017. Norway is already among the largest humanitarian contributors in Syria. We took the initiative at the London donor country conference earlier this year. It is essential that we assist neighbouring countries that accept large refugee flows from Syria. The humanitarian effort must be seen in the context of the strategy that the government is now developing for vulnerable countries. The strategy will focus on prevention, peace and reconciliation, institution building and industrial development. The long-term priorities used by the government in foreign and development policy are strengthened by this budget. In recent years, Norway has taken an international lead in training. The government will continue to strengthen the commitment to education in countries affected by poverty, war and crises. The appropriations for education have doubled since 2013. Health remains a central pillar of development policy. The appropriations have been increased from approximately 2.5 billion. SEK in 2013 to over 3 billion. kr today. We also remain one of the largest financial contributors to the UN. We are working to strengthen human rights, both in the UN and at land level. Government rates on industrial development in developing countries. The appropriations for Norfund have increased by 25 pst. during the period of government. We are also increasing the focus on renewable energy. We contribute to combating climate change through strategic climate funding, including: to the Green Climate Fund. At the same time, the government has continued to reduce and concentrate both the number of countries and the number of agreements in development policy. We have gone from approx. 7 000 contracts in 2013 to approx. 4000 today. We're also continuing our big investment in the north and increasing the appropriations by over 500 million. kr. It is a strength for Norway that there is cross-political agreement on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. The budget for 2017 takes care of our central Norwegian interests. With the budget, we contribute internationally with our friends and allies – and show that Norway is taking international leadership in several key areas. European countries are Norway’s neighbours, friends and main trading partners. Therefore, Norwegian foreign policy must begin in Europe. Through the EEA Agreement, the Schengen Agreement and our other agreements with the EU, Norway is actively participating in European cooperation. The EU's internal market, of which we are part through the EEA, is Norway's second most important market. Some have mentioned withdrawing Norway from EEA cooperation. The EEA Agreement will be replaced by a free trade agreement with the European Union, as the British Brefits. It is important to remember that the EEA Agreement gives Norwegian companies full access to the EU internal market by following the same legislation as EU countries. The avalanche is dynamic, and the government platform is ready. It is in Norway’s interest to suspend the EEA Agreement and other agreements with the EU. At the same time, it is also in our interest to maintain close trade policy cooperation with the United Kingdom and equal access to the UK market as today when the United Kingdom leaves the EU. I have noticed the broad support for the EEA funds. 2017 is the last year of allocation from Stortinget under the EEA scheme for the period 2009-2014. The EEA Financial Mechanisms for the period 2014-2021 are of EUR 2,8 billion. EUR and the proposal for 2017 is EUR 370 million. kr. Strategic use of these funds is an important part of this government’s active European policy. Negotiations with the recipient countries are well under way, with the aim of completing all the agreements during 2017. These are already signed agreements with Romania, Slovakia and Bulgaria. The funds are targeted at common European challenges, including growth, research and innovation, the environment, energy and climate action and asylum/migration. Norway has chaired the Nordic cooperation in 2017. We are concerned that Nordic cooperation should be relevant, effective and adaptable. On the basis of the three main tracks, the departments will initiate projects on integration, green migration and health, as well as on institutional cooperation and energy cooperation in foreign policy. The Svalbard budget shall be presented annually at the same time as the State budget and shall provide the Storting with an overview of the government's bets for the island group. The government will have a strong Norwegian presence and sovereignty in the northern regions. The size has recently addressed the new Svalbard message. The notification goes through all aspects of swallowing policy — from legislation, environmental protection, research, higher education, social security and preparedness and business. There is a broad political consensus on Norwegian swallowing policy: we need a firm enforcement of sovereignty, compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and control of compliance with the Treaty. We're still going to have a predictable exercise of authority and a good social development on Svalbard. In the Communication, the Government stresses that the overall objectives of the swallowing policy are fixed. Having a long-term and continuous svalbard policy has proved successful for the development of Svalbard. The coal company Great Norske has traditionally been one of the carriers of the Longyearbyen community. In recent years, the company has faced challenges, and the Lunckefjell mine in Svea is currently in business rest. The government underlines that today's Longyearbyen communities are still to be a family community. Longyearbyen shall be a place where Norwegian families want to live for a shorter or longer period. The Stortinget has joined in. Through the 2015 and 20l6 budget, the government has already allocated significant funds for conversion, employment and further development on Svalbard, while proposing a number of new measures in the next year’s budget. Research and higher education is one of the main areas of Norwegian activity in Svalbard. The government will strengthen Norwegian hosting and coordination of research activities in New Ålesund. The government therefore proposes, inter alia: to grant 20,5 million. SEK in 2017 for the inclusion of a new joint construction in New Ålesund. The budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment will be exceeded. Monitoring and warning of floods and rapids contributes to the reduction of serious incidents. In order to improve the safety of the inhabitants of Longyearbyen for the winter of 2016/2017, Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate is planning to continue, as it was established in January 2016, the snow-clad alert on Svalbard. The government is proposing to grant $1 million. kr over the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy for this purpose. The government sees a need for increased control as well as the presence of the Svalbard Employment Officer at Svalbard Airport. It is therefore proposed in the 2017 State Budget to increase the allocation of 7 million EUA. kr. This will strengthen the Employment Police Department with three posts for, inter alia: increased control and presence at Svalbard airport. The strengthening of the Employment Police Department will also contribute to raising the overall preparedness of the archipelago. So to the question that the representative Bård Vegar Solhjell raised related to the agreement with China. I have to make it clear that I have naturally not seen the agreement, but there is nothing in the agreement that will prevent Norway from addressing what the counterparty would call critical issues or difficult issues. There can be no doubt that the answer given by the Prime Minister here is the agreement to be understood and will be dealt with by the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1856	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1862	Aspacer said in her post that she and the government had increased their investment in renewable energy. In 2014, it was a record of 1.3 billion. kr, and in what is the government's proposal now, it is 470 million. kr. I guess I don't see exactly that it's a bet. There is a relatively large reduction in this budget line. In addition, I wonder whether the Government Council agrees with the government party colleague Tybring-Gjedde that it is necessary to renegotiate the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1869	I am asking for an understanding that I must be allowed to investigate the first question, and then I will come back and answer it. As regards the EEA Agreement, the Government is quite clear that it is the best agreement Norway can have in ensuring market access for Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry. It is also an agreement that gives us the opportunity to cooperate with the EU in a number of other areas. It's such an important agreement that we have to suspend it. But it is well that no agreement is perfect. We do not sit at the table when decisions are taken, but if we engage in important matters and early in the processes in the European Union, we actually have good examples that we also have the opportunity to come to the table, and we may also have the opportunity to experience the impact of our views. So the EEA Agreement cannot be touched. It is so important for Norwegian business and so important for Norwegian well-being that it is fundamental and should not be touched on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1880	Several representatives have been involved in the acute humanitarian disaster that is taking place in Aleppo. At the end of the year, the government often has some budget lines where you have not spent all the money. Will Aspaker, in consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, consider increasing humanitarian aid for the refugee disaster in Aleppo, based on the fact that there may be some remaining resources in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that can contribute to this very difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1885	I share the great concern of the representative Huitfeldt for the tragedy that we see playing out in Syria, but there can be no doubt that Norway has definitely taken on the leadership trough. We took the initiative at the donor country conference. We have committed ourselves to major donations to Syria in the future, and we will do everything we can to contribute when there is a need for it. So let there be no doubt: Syria and neighbouring countries – which also have great obligations and burdens as a result of all the refugees there – have absolute top priority on our part.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1890	A few weeks ago, the Minister of Fisheries of the Government, Per Sandberg, could report that if it had been a referendum for or against the EEA today, ‘I would have voted no’. It is doubtful whether the EEA Agreement is necessary to ensure the export of fish. Among other things, researchers at the University of Tromsø have calculated that the difference between today's customs tax and the one in the extreme case could risk by cancelling the EEA Agreement and going back to our original trade agreement with the EU, represents only 1.8 percentage points of the export value. Can the Council of State, which until recently itself was the Minister for Fisheries, explain what today's Minister for Fisheries has not understood, when he does not believe that Norway is dependent on the EEA?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1897	The Government Platform is quite clear that the government is building its policy on the EEA Agreement. It is incredibly important for both the Norwegian fishing industry and goods and services from many other sectors that have the EU as their main market. 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to the EU. I have noticed that the Seamatallians in Norway are now the foremost drivers to take care of the EEA Agreement. But they obviously have great ambitions for growth in their industry and also want more markets. I also see that they are cheering over what has happened in relation to China today, because China is an important market. However, the importance of the EU market is also very clear from the maritime food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1904	What has happened in the relationship with China today is very good. So if it doesn't put the oral basket on Norway in any context, it's even better. Fishing industry has been saying for a long time – for very, very many years – that now things are going bad: there are problems with the EEA, that is, the European market, it has our problems with the Russian market – it has our problems with different markets. Nevertheless, fishing exports have increased year after year, fortunately, because we have good people, we have great raw materials – we have raw materials as a whole worth demand. My question is, how can one in the government live with the fact that one government party makes comments and makes statements as opposed to the EEA Agreement, while the Council of State now says that the agreement should not be touched on? Can one speak with two tongues in this government, as one still does?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1913	I have noticed that in many parts there are now many processes related to program work etc. It's part of the political work. But then I am equally clear that the government platform on which all governments are obliged is firm. The Prime Minister has also been very clear that for the Right it is not appropriate to sit in a government that weakens the EEA Agreement. Norwegian fishing industry – yes, we can say that you have been very lucky after all the trouble you have had, whether it is China or Russia, which was closed overnight during the period I was a fisheries minister – is therefore able to find new markets. But we have an ambition to multiply the production of salmon and trout. That means we have to find bigger markets in the future. This is why, among other things: what has happened to China today, so fantastically important, because it is such a large and important market for Norwegian fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1922	The Council of State said that she had not seen the agreement with China, so then it might be bad to use the wording in it. It's pretty short and easy to read. We had also not seen it before the debate this morning, and the agreement states in paragraph No. 3 not to break China’s interests or ‘major groups’ – how it will now be seen – and not to undermine any of their interests and refrain from anything that could destroy bilateral relations. Is the Council of State certain that what she has insured about in her statement — that this gives Norway the full opportunity to criticise — is possible with point No. 3 of the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1931	I refer to what the Prime Minister has answered, and her statement earlier today. There is nothing in the agreement that will prevent Norway from addressing the more kinky or critical issues as well. But I also ask for understanding that I have not read the agreement. I have not had the opportunity to get into it. I would like to show that as soon as the occasion arrives and the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes to Stortinget, you will have the opportunity to raise questions and go further into the depth of the agreement and the text that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1938	We probably get the chance to come back to it, but I see the answer to the Council of State as quite clarifying: that is, we are free to express the critical or other comments we might have, within the framework of an otherwise close cooperation between two countries. I also perceive that she confirms that we can do it the way we used to do it, or have done it to another country. In the case of the small dispute over the EEA Agreement, there is no need for any agreement in the view of the representative of Tybring-Gjeddes or the Council of State of Vik Aspaker. One can simply read the text, what is actually in the comment. And what is actually stated is that the Committee stresses that the EEA Agreement has had some ‘unique negative consequences’ and that one has to work to improve the conditions for Norwegian interests. I see that as a major step forward towards recognising some of the actual problems that exist. So let me ask you this way: is the Council of State agreed to write in a single committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1948	I have not participated in the discussion in the committee, but I understand that there may have been a mistake here, and that there may not be a majority behind this comment, as can be seen from the vote, but I think we can clarify that later in the debate. I want to say that it is played out loud from those who want to cancel the EEA Agreement. Show me the agreement that will match the security provided by the EEA Agreement, both in terms of duty-free access, and also in terms of everything else that, in a commercial policy context today, may well be so troubled mechanisms to meet when exporting. I think you take quite a lot of water over your head when you refer to, among other things. Switzerland, which, in all these years of negotiation of agreements, has achieved only half-way goals, and where, to all intents and purposes, an EU is meeting to make clearer demands on what the counter-performance is to be, in order to gain greater recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1957	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1962	I would first like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for a good piece of work. It is a work that was actually completed a while ago when we reached a broad agreement on the defence budget between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Workers' Party and the government parties. I would also like to take the opportunity to send a greeting to all the defence workers who are working for Norway, either in surgery or at home, and not least to all those who are going to work during the Christmas holidays. They get extra attention from their colleagues now at Christmas, and it's well deserved. The government presented a solid and ambitious long-term plan in June. At the same time, I am very pleased with the agreement that ensured the long-term plan – which we have discussed here in the Chamber – but also what lays the basis for the realization of it, namely. the budget and the budgetary agreement. The consensus on the framework conditions is essential to provide predictability in its implementation. The government's 2017 budget proposal represents a clear change of pace. The budget agreement we made with Stortinget in connection with the long-term plan on 8 November is very good. There is a broad consensus on the direction. There is more money left for the purposes the government has already put heavily on. In some areas, the parties have had different priorities, and that is also quite natural, but what we take with us must be funded both in 2017 and in the continuation. Here, too, there is a broad consensus on the Stortinget. I am pleased that the Committee has so clearly confirmed the need for sustainability and a multiannual financial commitment in the vote. I'm also very pleased with the agreement on that increase of 300 million. kr that came. It has not always been the case that there has been full agreement to increase the defence budgets. That was an important point for the government when we joined, that we should have full transparency about the real state of defence, because we thought it was the best basis for reaching agreement on increased appropriations, modernisation and reform needs. The agreement therefore ensures that there is now a reinforcement of approx. 2.2 B.C.E. kr for both long-term plan actions and other measures in the 2017 budget. That means we have a budget framework in 2017 that is over 51 billion. kr. It is a historic promise of defence, and it provides a multi-annual commitment to re-establish a sustainable level of maintenance by the end of 2020. As we've discussed before, this is a aftermath we've brought with us from a long time back. In the light of the experience of eight years with the Central Party in the government, I must admit that I see what the representative Navarsete says, sounds a bit hollow. She and her party bear a great deal of responsibility for the situation the defense is put in, through lack of funding over very many years. The budgetary agreement both strengthens the objectives of the long-term plan and provides the necessary long-term sustainability. For the government, it has been very important, as we clearly explain in the long-term plan, to build up the long-term plan in a logical way, that is. the first priority is to build the ground wall – to maintain, acquire spare parts, stockpiles and to ensure the functioning of the defence we have today. But increased appropriations alone are not enough, modernisation and reform are also important. We have to be clear about what we're prioritizing, and have a critical look at what we're doing, and how we're doing it. The budget therefore also includes re-disposals internally to meet the government’s objectives, and a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has joined. The working party was concerned that the government has, throughout the period, exposed the defence of red tape and efficiency reform. Well, it's given the defense far more money than you've given, and not least it has all the departments contribute to this whole thing, so the defense can get a lot more money, even in the years that come. It has been and is important, and not least, the Workers’ Party has now taken this red tape and streamlining reform and fully accepted it, as part of the financial preconditions for the long-term plan. A very important point to start with right now is to compensate for the special cost growth in the sector. This involves approx. Seventy-seven million. In this budget, however, it is close to 50 billion in the 20th year perspective. kr. So it's 50 billion. which would otherwise have been undercompensated and contributed to undermining the sustainability of the defence economy. I am very pleased with both the conciliation and the long-term plan we agreed on, and I believe here we set out the course for a sustainable, solid and operational defence for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1992	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e1997	A weakness in the long-term plan adopted now in the autumn was the need for land-use investment for another year. Now we've just seen a picture in the paper with a lot of men to figure this out. Then I thought in my silent mind: it's good it's women who are the most when you decide this at the end, and then we get a certain balance in this. But that's really not my question. My question is, what is the status of this estate? What expectations do the Council of State have, and when can the first investments come? In the agreement we made, we made it clear that we were already going to start investments in combat air protection before the investigation is completed. But what's the status of the mercenary right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2002	I like the question. I can tell you that law enforcement is in good shape. The Chief of Defense gave me a read-back of the mandate and mission before he also had a round with his bosses, and that's important, because everyone should have a common perception and understanding of where we're going. We're putting the last hand on the work for the economic plan assumptions. They have, as the representative is aware, been somewhat adjusted in the context of the long-term agreement, and thus all parts of it must also be included in the land use planning framework. There are already good and constructive discussions going on. I have great confidence that this work is done in a good and solid way. I would also like to add that the investments we are making, such as: Motor vehicles to the Army, continue, and there are investments in both communication systems and a number of other things that also go in 2017 – only the tanks make payments of 1.9 billion. In 2017 for the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2007	I have a question about the red tape and efficiency reform. It also involves some cuts in the budget from next year. At Stortinget we have adopted and will adopt overall targets. However, in what areas will the defence in 2017, as planned by the Council of State, be more effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2012	As we discussed the long-term plan, some of the things we are now going to contribute to the efficiency and red tape of, things that are already going on, which have been part of the defence’s red tape and more efficient over time, and the idea is to use both money internally in the sector and contribute to the reform. As the representative is aware, the defence sector is exempt from the increased requirement of the budgetary agreement, and that was important, because we were very clear that the agreement we had had contained a specific framework in 2017, and also a specific framework in the future. This applies to both staff and support functions, where there is already a very good work going on. It also applies in commercial areas, such as purchasing processes, framework agreements, etc., and that work will continue for four years to come. Then the effects of the conversion of the base structure will eventually come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2017	Norway and other small countries are probably too small to keep up with a national defence in the future – this is how one of the governments characterises its defence ideologyists, Sverre Dien, that in an article. There is now full confusion between the government party over the size of the defence budget over the next few years. Equally full, there is no doubt that the government and the Labour Party in their agreement do not allow as much as the Defence Manager thought was necessary to ensure what he called a sober, first-line defense. Politics is about prioritizing, which the Centre Party has done when we propose in our alternative budget to increase the funds for investment and operational operations in the Defence by 1.5 billion. kr. At the same time, the Centre Party proposes to cut into EEA funds. For 50 million. kr could train the entire HV area structure. It is the same sum that Norway has allowed in EEA funds to ensure air conditioning and heat parameters in a Polish 1800s art building. Does the Minister for Defence think that this is the right priority, and will she insist that Norway should also have a self-defense into the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2022	Since 1949, Norway has had a very clear recognition that we are dependent on an alliance to defend ourselves and also defend our allies. This means that no country in Europe has proposed that they should be able to defend themselves on their own, nor Norway. What we do in the long-term plan, and which is supported by this budget, is precisely to make us better able to deal with what may be of incidents and crisis management, what is about the defence of our own country, and also what is about helping our allies if they need it. We strongly strengthen the defense after many years, especially the years when Liv Signe Navarsete was appointed as the Council of State. We had a subfunding of the defense. We're partly paying the price for that today, but I'm very pleased with the broad consensus it's now about strengthening Defence and strengthening the budgets. We have put in place a carefully coordinated plan for what is possible to be traded on both maintenance assets and operating resources, and the strengthening we are doing on maintenance and operation now is what forms the basis for the increase in activity that comes next fiscal year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2027	When it comes to the red-green government, I can never remember that between the parties in the red-green government there was doubt as to what the frame of the long-term plan was, neither when we presented the first, nor when we presented the second. There is a debate that has taken place in different media, where representatives from the Progress Party have asked questions about what is actually the framework, and there are also many others who have done so. Never.no. Can the Council of State now clearly and reliably determine what is the framework, including the efficiency improvements and the cuts that are in place to finance the overall framework? And is it probable that a thing to do so big a cut, which is far above what the chief of defense thought was defensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2035	There is no doubt about what the framework for the long-term plan is. The framework for the long-term plan is a strengthening of what was inside, by 165 billion. kr over the 20-year period. It is now getting a little higher because of the budgetary agreement. We're now going to figure out exactly how much that is going to be. In addition, the whole defence sector needs to be more effective, not just in the defence sector, because of the fact that it is not just in the defence sector. 40 B.C.E. kr. That figure is going to be a little lower because of the decisions in the long-term agreement, but it's a combination of a large sum of over 165 billion. kr in fresh money, plus re-prioritising for other defence-related purposes that are higher priorities than those that are priorities for today, for approx. 40 B.C.E. kr or a little bit less. I have also responded in detail in a written reply to the representative of Navarsete. What I want, on the other hand, to correct as a misunderstanding, is, as the representative Navarsete said in his statement, that the Army is not guaranteed funding in the long-term plan. That's it. Over the next 20 years, it's been set by approx. 30 B.C.E. kr for investment in the Army, and it is clear from both this debate and what is in the long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2042	A little bit about the same thing: we live in an uncertain world, and there is a need for a strengthening of the Defence, even in the short term, not only in the long term. In the view of the Left, a major weakness in the long-term communication is that, since the land force study is exposed, we are not now making decisions on army, home security and coastal defence, but we are adopting large investments, large relocation processes, and there is also an efficiency target that many have called into question. In the budget for this year, there was a proposal to foreclose the estate, and that the Coast Guard Command and the Sjøheimewert should be closed down. When all these major investments are adopted — relocation processes, efficiency improvements — is the Council of State certain that there is enough funds in the long-term plan for a conclusion on the land power, that we still need a mechanised brigade structure with the necessary investments it also provides?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2051	As I was a little behind at the end of the answer to the representative of Navarsete, for the purposes of the plan – also for the land administration – significant amounts have been set aside for investment in the Army. We are very concerned that, given a new security policy picture, a new threat picture, we need to carefully review the conceptual approaches and actually make sure that we have a land power that can meet a very different threat picture and often different scenarios than what has been usual in the past. Then we have to make sure that we invest those funds properly so that we can meet those challenges. That's what all of these means are set aside – over 30 billion. for investments in land power in the 20th year perspective. I would also like to remind you here of the discussion that we have had, and as I see it, is a very good discussion: whether you should have dedicated helicopter support to the Army. It is also included as part of the rural mutilation. That's an important part of it. It is made clear in the mandate. The mandate is relatively comprehensive. It's available on our websites. There's also a lot of background to why it's necessary to do this investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2058	I thank you for the answer, but I do not think there is a good answer to just the precise question I asked. Is there room in the long-term plan for a conclusion that we should continue to have a brigade structure, a mechanised brigade structure, with the investments it provides for both air protection, new artillery, an upgrade of armor and what is at least our desire: that we can also have a strengthening of personnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2063	After all, the question became much more comprehensive when asked for a second time. In terms of what was the starting point, if it's set of means to continue the structure we have today, the answer to that is yes, that's that. However, it is clear that one of the things we want to do through the state administration is to make a priority to assess what are the highest priority capacities, and when you have a review both conceptually and in terms of the threat picture, I will not rule out that the head of defence comes to realize that there are some other needs that are more important than the needs you have now seen. There will be an assessment that the head of defence and the working group working under the direction of Brigadier Aril Brandvik will arrive at. I really look forward to that work, because I think it's important, it's interesting, and it's absolutely necessary to make sure that we have a defence that adds up to the best operational ability. Then we must also be willing to look at the land force, just as we have seen both the Naval Defense and the Air Force in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2072	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2077	I should first like to raise a point of order. 1 to case No. 3, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. ‘We must see in our eyes that the world has become more dangerous.’ The statement is from NATO Chief Jens Stoltenberg in the last VG HELG. He goes on to say: ‘We are in a world of major activism, marked by unforeseeability because we have so many non-governmental actors.’ When the head of NATO talks about a grey zone between war and peace, with instability, violence and terror as the main challenge, there is reason to stop and think through the instruments of NATO and we have – not to talk about not having – thoughts about civil and military action, about NATO's challenges, about humanitarian disasters resulting from war and civil war, today primarily Syria, on our doorstep, but let us not forget Africa, where, among other things. There's a bloodbath in South Sudan. In the cold water of 11 September 2001, the debate on the prevention of terrorism was very important. There was an increased commitment to civil-military cooperation in the recognition that in order to deal with a terrorist attack one must be able to think indiscriminately, which we experienced at home painfully on 22 July 2011. Let me mention here that we need to increase our commitment to international cooperation on intelligence. It has probably, since 11 September, prevented and even stopped concrete plans on terrorism. I am the case rapporteur for the E-service in the budget position and rarely tends to talk about it, but the committee just shows that increased cross-border intelligence cooperation over the last 15 years has prevented possible terrorist attacks. A relevant and effective E-service is important to ensure a decision-making basis also for Norwegian authorities – a prerequisite for our safety and security. The unstable threat picture requires a competent and high-tech intelligence service, and the Committee also underlines the importance of increased cooperation between the E service, the national safety authority and the PST. The Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre has also been necessary. There are many victims of terror and terrorist groups, but again there are women who suffer the greatest. We've seen with horror how IS treats women, but this also applies to Boko Haram, who has driven 2.7 million people away, and 20,000 have lost their lives. I was very pleased when I heard on Sunday that Norway is 100 million. aid to help the girls and women who have been abused by Boko Haram, with emphasis on education and support for victims of violence and rape. Many are raped, many are abducted, many are coerced, and we all remember that Boko Haram kidnapped 200 schoolgirls in 2014. Violence against women, violence against women's bodies, mass violence, abduction of women, assault on women in refugee camps, ethnic cleansing by rape in war – this list can unfortunately be made much longer – an infinity of pain and suffering, of oppression and violence. Therefore, women and gender equality must also be one of the pillars of Norwegian foreign and development policy. It's important to bet on women's rights. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to increase the appropriations by 50,5 million. kr. Organizations like UN Women do an impressive job in the field. But as others have also said, the UN organisations are not getting enough money. With the reality we now have, we see a reinforced work on sexual and reproductive health that will be absolutely crucial. In Congo, surgeon Mukwege has operated on 30,000 small girls and women after being raped as an instrument in the civil war. In fact, assembly and maternity care are also a prerequisite for newborns to grow up. I believe that we should step up efforts in this area and also help to ensure that the UN organisations have the means to carry out the necessary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2104	The representative of Marit Nybakk has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2109	Let me start by thanking Mr Tybring-Gjedde for making the room aware of the incuria or error that has occurred in the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, on page 5. It's been a little fast this year, and a couple of parties in the committee went out of the comment that the representatives Tybring-Gjedde and Navarsete were so happy that we were inside on page 5 of the vote. I must also disappoint the representative, Solhell, who was not present at that particular meeting, but that is wrong as it stands now. The right would therefore like to have in the minutes of this meeting that we are inside the sentence where it says: ‘The Committee points out that the EU is our second-largest trading and cooperation partner.’ But we should not be caught up in the two subsequent sentences, on negative consequences and renegotiation. So to the government's proposal for the 2017 aid budget, which marks a historic bet in several areas. Norwegian aid is at the top of the world as a percentage of GNI and per capita. The right still wants a high level of assistance. We are focusing in particular on five areas: education, health, humanitarian aid, business development and job creation, and climate, environment and clean energy. Norway’s role as global leader in promoting education for development is important. 263 million children and young people do not go to school, and over 25 pst. by young people in the world are unemployed. Education is the key to growth and well-being. We put particular emphasis on girls and children in crisis and conflict. It is a paradox that global contributions to education have sunk. Nor was Norway a good example in this way, but this government is fulfilling its promise to double education aid during this major period. At the same time, we're increasing global health spending by 500 million. kr. Norway is increasing the contribution to the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria for the period 2017–2019 to 2 billion. kr. Norway is one of the main contributors to the efforts of the Vaccine Alliance to strengthen children’s and women’s health, which also includes reproductive health and measures aimed at reducing maternal and infant mortality. There is a need to strengthen the work against gender mutilation, child marriage and maternal mortality. It is essential that women's rights and gender equality be promoted and strengthened through targeted measures and included in all development work, unfortunately we see women's rights and equality weakening in a number of UN member countries and in areas marked by war and conflict. The need for humanitarian aid in the world is increasing dramatically. The conflict in Syria has created the greatest refugee crisis in our time. That is why we now have a record high humanitarian budget in 2017, with an increase of 50 pst. from 2013. While a significant part of the increase is aimed at helping the Syrian population and the refugees in neighbouring countries, it is also important to stress that emergency aid is channelled to other areas in crisis where UN emergency appeals are strongly underfunded. This applies not least to the region around South Sudan, Ethiopia, Somalia and other areas in crisis in sub-Saharan Africa, as well as to Yemen. The flow of escape from last year's harvest is gone. It also means that the sum used in the aid budget for refugees at home is down to a ‘normal level’ of 8.5 pst. of the assistance budget for ODA actions in Norway. But we must not forget that there is also a positive development in the world. The UN's sustainability targets have focused on eradicating all poverty, and the poor parts of the world have never had a more positive development than in the last three decades. The proportion of people living in extreme poverty is more than halved, and a total of 700 million people have crossed the limit of extreme poverty. Access to jobs with good working and pay conditions is one of the strongest driving forces in the fight against poverty. As a result, the focus on education, business development and trade and economic growth are important factors, and therefore government's commitment to trade and industrial development in developing countries is important in order to ensure good conditions for investment and job creation in the poorest countries. Anti-corruption measures establish a good investment climate and ensure tax revenue for common welfare in countries also help to create a lasting path out of poverty. Through increased appropriations for projects under the direction of Norfund, the targeted investment in renewable energy projects is increasing and contributes to a sustainable basis for future growth and development. The Paris Agreement is the first global agreement that obliges all countries to set themselves increasingly ambitious climate targets to reduce emissions. The fact that the agreement has entered into force so quickly shows that the world is united to prevent dangerous climate change, and that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2141	As others before me have done, I cannot avoid commenting on today's big and good news – the news and announcement Prime Minister Erna Solberg came with me from this pulpit today at 9 p.m. 10, where she told about the government's last say that diplomatic work towards China has led. This means normalising the relationship between Norway and China. Norway does not have about Six years, not since October 2010, have had political contact with China. It has, as we all know, gone beyond Norwegian business, and it has affected Chinese business, which wants to trade and cooperate with Norwegian business. Other Norwegian-Chinese projects and cooperation have also been affected in some areas. It's now history. I am really pleased that Erna Solberg today announced that the contact has been restored, and that – for good reason – there is now great optimism, both from the political and Norwegian industry. It is the result of a long-term and laborious diplomatic work on many levels to restore trust between our two countries. It has, among other things, agreed to resume immediately the negotiations for a free trade agreement and other cooperation agreements. A reaction from a part of Norwegian business, which will undoubtedly be affected by this — in a positive way — can be summed up with a quote from Sigmund Bjørgo in the Norwegian maritime network: ‘It is realistic that the normalisation of the relationship with China would mean a 20-fold increase in Norwegian salmon exports.’ If there's something that's occupied me as a politician and elected representatives for over eleven years here on the Grand Council, it's just free trade and the importance of concluding more free trade agreements. Free trade has brought hundreds of millions of people in China out of poverty. Free trade has made Norway one of the richest countries in the world, and free trade creates peace and more dialogue in the world. Associations at Stortinget are not formally organized by Stortinget. Nevertheless, there are many associations and information groups. What I've been discussing lately with a couple of other representatives, and to which we were going to invite these days, is to set up an informal friends' association or contact group for the big business representatives who are interested in China, just as there are now several informal but organised friendship groups or contact groups – from German friends and American friends to smaller associations like friends of Estonia, friends of Romania and friends of Palestine. For many years I've had the pleasure of being a member of several of these associations, and we've been getting good results and good information through such networks. In fact, I think the presidency should consider formalising this, as is done in several parliaments in other countries of the world. I myself have been the leader of Israel's friends and friends of Estonia, and now this fall I became the leader of Vietnam's friends. That the news of a normalization of the relationship with China now came, I hope I will be well received by my co-representatives, and that you set up a Friends' Association for China. Again, all the tribute to the government with Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Burnde at the head, and not least to the staff of diplomacy, especially those who have been posted in China for many years, who have been standing day and night to improve the relationship between China and Norway. But we must not forget the Norwegian businessmen in China who have used their channels to influence the process in the right direction. It is, of course, understandable that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in Beijing today in meetings with, among other things. China's Minister of Foreign Affairs and Prime Minister and not here in the Grand Chamber, even when the Stortinget is debating the good budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Diplomacy in 2017. Now time runs out, but in the little time left, I want to highlight the aid organisations, especially those with low administration – in other words, the country's most efficient money collectors. Then there are four that stand out, and there is the Gospel Center of the Pinseven Foundation, ADRA Norway, Plan Norway and Mercy Ships Norway. The latter has been mentioned by the Committee in a small note, which I hope the Councils will take with them to influence who is being supported, to value the Mercy Ships, and that they will also receive funds in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2166	Like the representative Graham, let me draw your attention to the fact that the comment mentioned on page 5, second column, paragraph 9, is not an expression of the view of the Workers' Party. There may have been a comitology comment by a lapsus in a busy interview. The views of the Working Party on the EEA are set out in the note below: ‘The majority of the Committee will underline the importance of the EEA Agreement and Norway’s cooperation with the EU. [[...]] The majority emphasise that the EEA Agreement is of vital importance for Norwegian business.» So hopefully that misunderstanding would be out of the world. An overall committee refers to the setting of the broad political consensus on ‘that Norwegian foreign policy should be enshrined in international law and be based on mandatory international cooperation’. This is a long line in Norwegian foreign policy, based on the basic idea that, in particular, the smaller countries are served by a world where relations between states are governed by international law, conventions and institutions capable of resolving disputes. Justice shall trump power, including in international policy. Just international law has laid the groundwork for the demarcation against our great neighbour in the East, Russia, in 1826 and later the demarcation line in the Barents Sea in 2008. The law of the sea is another example of the value an international law has had and has for us. The respect of countries for a 200-mile zone – important for a country with a long coastline and large sea areas. The right of all countries to free movement in the world’s oceans, including in the economic zones — important for a maritime nation such as Norway. But this important principle means that we and other countries are willing to give up some of what we call national sovereignty. All power can no longer be in this room, as Johan Sverdrup put it. We have to give up some of the decision-making space in order to achieve a greater good, along with other countries. Or as President of the Czech Republic, Václav Havel, wrote in an article published in the Evening Post on May 15, 1994: ‘We are ready to give up a piece of our state sovereignty in favour of a sovereignty that can be exercised in a European Community. We know it will be beneficial for us, as for other Europeans." When we negotiated out of the Union with Sweden in 1905, we had to undertake never to change the course of the transnational Scandinavian rivers. In concrete terms, the Swedish concern was Trysilelva, which runs out in Klarälven on the Swedish side. The 1905 Watercourse Convention has narrowed down the Storting's space of action and deprived Norway of a small tab of our sovereignty. It was some of the price of becoming an independent country. I start in international law and sovereignty because, in this position and in the debate, arguments are used that undermine the broad consensus expressed in joint committee comments, that we are served with an international order based on international law, conventions and institutions. If we are to have such an international legal order, we cannot at the same time preach the illusion that we are going to be able to do exactly what we want, even when it is not the practice of the People's Government. Of course, the aftermath of the Norwegian EU membership dispute, which is now being introduced into the EEA Agreement, is at the heart of this. Obviously, the encouragement comes from the UK’s decision to withdraw from EU cooperation. ‘Take back control’ was the slogan. What the slogan is to be filled with is still being considered in London, while some people here at home see what they call ‘great opportunities for Norway’ in the agreement they believe the British will have. Norway is a party to some 900 international agreements and conventions. Everyone is depriving this Chamber of some space for action – from our accession to the 1875 Convention of the Convention of the Vatican of 1905, from our membership of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights to UN and NATO membership – and, of course, the EEA Agreement. Interestingly, there is no debate here at home about the Human Rights Court, which can prevail over the decisions of Norwegian courts. It is a quite significant renunciation of sovereignty. The new British Prime Minister, Theresa May, also called for the United Kingdom to remain in the EU but to leave the Council of Europe before the June vote. We are hoped that the inspiration from Brexit will not infect our membership of the Council of Europe and the Court of Human Rights at home. Our relationship with our European neighbours, the European institutions and the internal market is a very central part of our foreign policy anchoring, economic and security policy. The recognition of this need to be maintained. That is why it deserves an ongoing debate. But that debate needs to be based on a real and sober basis – the role, opportunities and limitations of the nation state in a world that is increasingly integrated, and which is becoming more and more the Marshall McLuhan called our 'global village'. It's a world where it's not possible to shield itself from the influences of what's happening around us. When two American residential banks collapsed, a tsunami wave came through the world economy. Lack of regulation in one country can create tremors in an entire world. Today I heard the news that Norwegian farmers are recommended to keep their hens indoors in fear of avian influenza infection. It's hard to close the boundaries of the birds. Trade today is not like yesterday. It's a global value chain. A Volvo is composed in Sweden, but by tens of thousands of parts produced in 98 countries. Already in the 1991 Annual Report on Norwegian Foreign Policy, it was pointed out that concepts such as national, self-government, security and international cooperation gradually change their content. We are living in a reality where more and more of the challenges – climate, poverty, epidemics, terrorism and cross-border crime – can only be solved through cooperation between countries, a cooperation that must be binding if it is to deliver good enough results. Just see how the most committed cooperation that exists, EU cooperation, fails in the case of refugees – not because effective decisions are not taken, but because some of the countries say they will do what they themselves want, and not what they have agreed on. That is why the debate on our relationship with the outside world must be taken out of the slogan 'Take back control'. It does not hold to say that we can get a ‘better agreement’ with the EU than the EEA Agreement, without telling us how it should be better and for whom it should be better. It is worrying when one of the government parties is also humming on this melody and lefles with attacks on the EEA Agreement, when the country’s fisheries minister says he would vote against the agreement today – a government council responsible for one of our main export industries. He claims to be for free trade, but against the main trade agreement Norway has with our nearest and most important market. In its budget, the Central Party cancels all the funds for the EEA financial instruments, both the Norwegian and the one we have with Iceland and Liechtenstein. They shall delete it both for the period ending in 2014 and for the forthcoming period concluded until 2021. This means that if the Central Party had a majority in next year’s elections and could implement this, it would be the first time that a new government failed to comply with international obligations Norway has entered into under previous governments. Is it really such a country the Centre Party will be us – a country that does not comply with its commitments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2225	Norway’s international relations, trade policy and, above all, European policy are an important theme of a budget to create more jobs, better well-being and greater security. Norway has a small, open economy. Trade is what we live by, export revenue is the basis of jobs, well-being and what else we grant over the state budget. In Norwegian foreign and security policy, cooperation with the EU is central, yes, Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. In 2016, in many ways became a crisis year for Europe, with terrorist attacks, threats from violent extremism, a wave of migration from a neighbourhood marked by war and humanitarian disasters, an unpredictable Russia and increasing polarisation within the EU. As if that wasn't enough, the British have chosen Brexit. We experience a general wave of anti-establishment, anti-globalisation and increased trends in protectionism. The complex threat picture and the serious security policy situation place the values on which we build our liberal democracies, freedom, human rights and the rule of law, under strong pressure. The situation in Europe could potentially represent a major setback for what has been built up over the last decades and for the ideas on which European cooperation is based. Circumstances require political accountability here at home, and Norway is managed safely. Therefore, the government and the cooperation parties follow up the long-term plan with a historical increase in defence, and therefore the government pursues an active foreign policy both to take care of Norwegian interests and to be a positive contributor internationally. The work bears fruit. Today, the joyous news of full normalisation of diplomatic and political relations between Norway and China and the resumption of the work on a bilateral free trade agreement came to the fore. The government and, in particular, the Minister for Foreign Affairs deserve a great reward for long-term and laborious work. The EEA Agreement is the most comprehensive body of agreement Norway has at international level, the very floor plan for Norwegian European policy and for Norway’s cooperation with the EU. Apart from trade, it includes judicial/civil cooperation, migration, North and Arctic policies, energy and climate cooperation, and not least programmes such as Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+. The EEA Agreement serves Norway well. It gives market access to 31 countries with 500 million people, a market for 80 pst. of our total exports. The last Norwegian business life now needs to be created with uncertainty about that agreement. Therefore, the Right-wing guarantor of the EEA Agreement is. Brexit creates not only uncertainty within the EU but also for Norway as an EEA member. The United Kingdom is an important partner for us, the country is the largest single market for Norwegian goods exports and for Norwegian gas, which accounts for one third of British consumption. It is therefore important for the government to follow developments closely and to have ongoing dialogue with the British. The government emphasises the need to ensure a stable and predictable framework for Norwegian business, continued good cooperation with the British and equal access to the UK market after Brexit. Since 1994, Norway has contributed to social and economic cohesion in Europe through EEA funds. The new agreement for the period 2014-2021 signed in May of this year is approximately 26 billion. kr. The 2017 budget allocates 370 million. kr under the schemes, which will also help to strengthen links between Norway and the recipient countries. There is cause for concern when developments in some beneficiary countries show signs of a negative direction. From our largest destination country, Poland, there are reports of restrictions in the press. It is important that Norway imposes compliance with democratic principles and takes action if it does not. It is worth recalling that the payment of EEA funds to Hungary was suspended for a period following an infringement against NGOs with which Norway cooperates. At the beginning of 2017, many people ask themselves: Will the glue in the EU hold? Much will depend on the outcome of the elections in France, the Netherlands and Germany next year and require responsible political leadership. Success in Europe’s standing together is important for Norway. This is not the time to question the value of either our European or transatlantic bonds. On the contrary, we must stand together with our friends and allies and mobilise for common values, we must avoid decades of progress for democracy, fundamental freedoms, international cooperation and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2250	The budget we are debating today is the first in the forthcoming long-term defence plan. It's over 46. kr, and the government continues to renew and strengthen its defence capabilities, by SEK 2,2 billion. kr in increase in the first year. It gives a significant rise. The representative of Navarsete also repeats today the untruth that it is not being invested in the army and HV, but only in the first year of the long-term defence plan, the budget is increased by 400 million. NOK, plus 5-6 billion. kr in the four-year period, plus approx. 30 B.C.E. kr during the 20-year period. This isn't a little bit of money. It may seem like the Center Party lives by the statement that you say something many times enough, eventually it feels like a truth. It may seem that the representative has forgotten that the central party in the government was going to lay down four HV districts. In 2017, the priority is to increase the availability and sustainability of defence by strengthening maintenance and the acquisition of spare parts and emergency stocks. In recent years we have experienced a changed security policy image where old and new threats merge. International terrorism, organised crime and cyberactivity work together and present complex challenges. This places increased demands on the understanding of the situation, the presence, the ability to react and the contribution to NATO. Low levels of threats and tension in our neighbourhoods have contributed to other societal tasks being a priority over defence. Now that we're dealing with a new reality, it becomes more important to step up the bet. With the first budget in the long term, we're just doing it. Operational capability and fighting power are considerably strengthened as early as 2017. The arrangement of the long-term plan and the increased budget of the Defence Agency reflect this and also represent a very clear North-Area profile with a strengthening of activity and presence in the North. The government took over an underfunded defence where material and weapon systems were stored in the absence of maintenance – with empty spare parts bearings and reduced standby and ammunition stocks, this constituted a lag of more than 2 billion. kr. The aftermath has revealed an unsustainable management of material that has put defence personnel in a challenging situation in everyday life. This has been addressed by the government and the ministry through a targeted initiative. The Navy is now sailing for the first time four out of five frigates. In 2017, the Army and Heimevertet in the north are strengthened with increased exercise activity for the Armor Battalion, the 2nd Battalion and the HV's effort force in Finnmark, and the HV staff in Troms and Finnmark are strengthened for alliert collaboration. We continue the upgrade of the CV90 storm armored vehicles, the introduction of combat air protection, the investment in new heavy duty vehicles for the Army and HV field vehicles, and the border guard is strengthened by a hunting company with mobile air protection and armored weapons. In addition, nearly 30 billion must be invested. kr – as I mentioned earlier – in the next 20 years of land power, where the development of land power is to be investigated during the next year, where helicopter capacity for the Army becomes an important element. The budget shall also ensure sufficient activity to further develop operational capability in a critical conversion phase for the Air Force, where the phase-in of new fighter aeroplanes and the deployment of the new NH90 maritime helicopters will require more resources. New patrol aircraft shall ensure that the monitoring capacity in our sea areas is not only maintained but strengthened. With Evenes we get a power center for the Defense in the Ofot region, with ring-effects also for value creation and jobs. I am very pleased that the government parties and the cooperation parties reached a good budgetary settlement, and that the Workers' Party supports the long-term plan. Now we are going into an important recovery work for all the defenses in 2017, where the operational capability and the fighting power will be considerably strengthened. In summary, our aircraft shall fly more, the ships of the marine, frigates, corvettes, submarines and Coast Guard shall sail more, army and HV strengthened, and the presence and activity in the north shall be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2269	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2274	It was appropriate that the parties today congratulated the government with good diplomatic craftsmanship and that the trust between our two countries, China and Norway, has been restored. It is also very appropriate to have a foreign policy budget debate on a trade mark day, for today's news can have a good budgetary impact on Norway. As an auxiliary political spokesperson for the Right, I am concerned with instruments to combat poverty and need. The sustainability targets are just about that. The fact is that the great nation of China has lifted mass out of poverty and today is one of the world's two largest economies. Today’s international policy breakthrough is therefore so important for Norway. We're once again getting a normalized relationship with one of the biggest actors in the world. Of course, the relationship and understanding of such a strong nation is of great importance, not least for our business life, because, although trade between our nations has also taken place in the last six years, the negotiations on a trade agreement between Norway and China have been postponed indefinitely – from November 2010. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now negotiating a free trade agreement with China. This will be of great importance for the maritime sector, for the maritime industry and for the IT and energy sectors, to name a few. China is the world's largest energy consumer. As you know, Telenor today has 180 million customers in Asia. In China alone, about 700 million people have smartphones, and we see what this can mean. In April this year, on my way to Mongolia, I was a member of the Great Britain's ASEP delegation in China for 24 hours. ASEP is the parliamentary dimension of Asian-European cooperation. The meeting in Ulan Bator had, as one of its main themes, ‘connectivity’ — increased interaction — between Europe and Asia. There was also a lot of talk about China’s initiative on the ‘new Silk Road’ – trade routes between Europe and Asia, both to water and to land – the so-called ‘China’s Belt and Road Initiative’. China wants dialogue and trade with Europe. We should be able to offer – and get back – both. In a friendship, all facets belong, and Norway’s positions regarding both the law of the sea and human rights are well known. We don't leave these at home in any context when we're going out in the world – nor on our way in Asia. In earlier times Beijing was known as a cycling city. Now there's a lot of cars there, but what I didn't know when I got there in April, and as an electric car, I was just enjoying myself, was that the electric car policy of the Chinese authorities is very ambitious. Electric car sales in China were quadrupled from 2014 to 2015. In China’s energy mix, the share of coal has fallen, while water and wind have increased. Here we also have a lot to talk about – climate and environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2291	Well, then there was none of what I hoped for instead. I would like to stress that the Progress Party also relates to the cooperation agreement – obviously – but we also have a relationship with our voters and our party programme, and here on Stortinget we are elected by our voters and on our party programme. We have to look at it that way. We are in favour of free trade, but we see that it can be free trade under conditions other than those we have today. For example, we can look at the removal of the legalisation of policies – that we lose some of the right of self-determination and national governance – on the export of social security rights and on imports of labour. There are some negative consequences of the EEA Agreement that the Progress Party wants to look at, there are some unpleasant consequences from the day we signed it. I really think the whole hall agrees, but you don't want to use those words. And that's okay, I'll leave it. I would like to thank all Norwegian soldiers who contribute to international operations in this three-minute post. They're doing a fantastic job. I would also like to stress, also to the Minister of Defence, that it is very important when we participate in international operations, that we have a clear exit strategy, that we know when the mission is done, that we have thought about it before we leave. I think one has seen it in many international operations that no country really knows when they're done with the mission. Afghanistan is a good example of this. I can't really understand when that assignment is going to be done. I don't think anyone really sees it. Then it's important that soldiers are soldiers. They shall not build nations. As soon as you get into a situation where you say that now you have to build the nation, after possibly winning the war, which we really can't define, the soldiers must not be given the task of building the nation. They are soldiers, and they are to be soldiers and not nation builders. It is positive that the government ensures consistency between tasks, structure and economy. We could all wish for a larger and wider structure and a constant military station in far more places in the country. However, military warfare is changing. The defense cannot be stationary, it must be mobilised and movable. The government provides such a structure through the collection of power and the acquisition of strategic systems. However, the most important thing for a defence is the clear time with which you operate. If a clear time is to be credible and real, unprepared exercises must be put in place with full mobilization. It is my call to the Minister of Defence that such exercises be carried out on a regular basis, in line with the requirements of NATO. The government's defence uplift has two main themes: better preparedness and better operational capability. The launch of the Hunter Company at the garrison in South Varanger in 2017 is part of this process. Furthermore, the Army will be strengthened by increased training and improved access to stored material. The Naval Defense will sail more, and the Air Force will establish high activity with flying both with new fighter aircraft and with rescue helicopters. Furthermore, the Coast Guard will be less at berth and will also be more present in North Norway. The activity level at HV is continued and the training level for the inputs will be 90 pst. All of this will help ensure Norway’s sovereignty. With this as a rear carpet, no one will want to go back to the red-green hands' admissibility policy. I could say a lot about it, but I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2310	The Nordic regions are our main foreign policy area and are of great importance to Norway both in terms of security policy and economics, the overall objective of which is to secure peace and create stability and predictability. With increasing interest in the Arctic, it is important that the swallowing policy contributes to the peaceful and sustainable development of the northern regions. The presence in the north is essential for understanding and addressing climate challenges. Therefore, Norway’s commitment to increased national and international research competences on climate and environment in the northern regions is important for improved environmental management and environmentally sound and good use of resources. I am pleased that the government in the budget strengthens the Svalbard Science Forum, which promotes Svalbard as a national and international research platform with the primary task of coordinating and organising research on Svalbard. In addition, the management of relevant research programmes and infrastructure in New Ålesund is strengthened. In view of the tragic Svalbard accident in the last winter, it is reassuring that the Svalbard snowmobile alarm is continued in the budget, so that residents and tourists travelling in the area can have access to good information to ensure safety. With increased activity and tourist traffic at Svalbard, the government’s measures to increase security are a proper grip on the security of the employment force department and the increased control and presence of the airport’s staff. With reduced coal activity at Svalbard, the government wants to facilitate the development of existing activity, the tourism industry and new business activities to maintain the Norwegian community on the island group. With the cooperation parties, the government has reached a good agreement, where the allocation to Longyearbyen's local government is increased by 2 million. kr for this purpose. The cultural field can also make important contributions to travel in terms of both competence and travel products, so the government will grant funds to a residency programme for artists in connection with the Kunsthall Svalbard to attract more artists to the island group. There is a broad consensus on swallowing policy, and with the swallowing message and this budget, good cooperation is continuing across all political parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2325	Several have been involved in trade agreements in their contributions today. We've seen bigger upheavals in the last year than in a very long time. A few years ago, the United Kingdom had believed that it would withdraw from the EU, that Donald Trump would become president, or that a self-declared socialist would come close by becoming its presidential candidate in the United States. More and more, especially in trade, point out that supranational trade agreements and weak national governments have created greater differences and weaker wages and working conditions for many workers. Now even leading economists have come back to the uncritical homage of accelerating globalism. Victor Norman says in Today's Business 7th of December: ‘I believe that we – economicprofession – must take part in the responsibility for having received Trump in the United States, Brexit in the United Kingdom and right-wing populism in Europe.’ Last year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence addressed a communication on trade and globalisation. There, the Centre Party had extensive alternative comments, and we were criticized for standing outside of Norwegian trade policy. In the setting, we point to something else. on what should be a problem for everyone, when the message was slightly different between trade as a means and trade as a goal. The government wrote among others in the message that ‘the need for all countries’ interests must be balanced against the need for flexibility in the new trade agreements’. The centre party has always been clear that free trade is not an end in itself, but that trade can be a means of ensuring the well-being and security of citizens. The fact that transnational agreements such as TTIP and TISA are pending, I am pleased, because I believe that their greatest effect will be a weakening of both the government and the workforce of workers in Norway. It was surprising, therefore, that the leaders of the Committee from the Labour Party were so critical in their statement that these agreements have now been put on hold. I thought – and that is my experience with the Working Party – that one is particularly busy with tradesmanship and listening to them. In this matter, perhaps the Labour Party should listen more closely to tradesmen, who have pointed out both here in Norway and in other European countries that the trade agreements in question will lead to weak trade unions, weakening the rights of workers, and not least that one is moving power out of popular assemblies and into closed jurisdictions, which in turn will weaken the common people's ranks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2341	I want to start by thanking Christian Tybring-Gjede for making me aware that the Left was in the wrong note. Like so many others, we – on page 5 – have joined an EEA comment, where we were just going to join the first sentence. Then it's clear, sail if most of them have had it clarified during the debate. I would like to comment on what is being said here about trade agreements. It is an irrevocable fact that trafficking between people leads to increased well-being. It is an irrevocable fact that if countries deal with each other, wealth in countries will increase. There are seaworthy trade agreements and poor trade agreements. There are trade agreements that respect workers' rights and there are trade agreements that do not. Trade agreements are undermining democratic institutions and there are trade agreements that strengthen democratic institutions. Trade agreements themselves are not the problem. No, they're actually a great opportunity. So that poor trade agreements have been made in the United States, that workers' rights have been weakened over time, that over time they have weakened the ability to raise wages in the lower middle class, too, are not arguments against trade agreements. There are arguments against bad policies, and that is why we lay the foundation for making such trade agreements. If today’s hardship towards China increases the chance for Norway to enter into a trade agreement with China, it is fine if it is a good trade agreement. But the more I read about the agreement, the more worried I am. It's an extremely unilateral agreement, and it admits Norway's low self-sufficiency. In addition, there is an agreement that is much more stringent in the area of action for Norway than for example. our neighbouring country. So I think we need some good answers from the Foreign Minister on what really lies in those points. But the threat is not a country that makes agreements. The threat is those who make the bad deals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2354	Would the representative, Mrs Grande, like to raise a point of order. 2, from the left?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2359	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2365	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2370	After hearing a few of the comments – in particular from my good colleague Svein Roald Hansen – I feel a need to quote something from the committee's position, which the Progress Party also supports. And now I'm not talking about where more parties have gone out, but the next section, which says: ‘The majority emphasise that the EEA Agreement is of vital importance for Norwegian industry.’ It is quite obvious – the EEA Agreement is very important and will be important for many years to come. But if we go back and look at what was discussion, among other things. in the United Kingdom ahead of the Brexit situation, it was a desire to look at parts of the EU system agreement, which show that within the EU too there were challenges, challenges that it is well worth addressing, and which should be looked at more closely. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde was at one of the points, related to the export of welfare schemes. We know that was a major issue in the United Kingdom. There is also a theme that is moving between countries, and it is possible to look at parts of this agreement. It is quite right that there is no renegotiation clause in the EEA Agreement as an agreement, but it is quite clear that if you look at areas where there may be a possibility to make adjustments and changes, you should take advantage of that possibility when the occasion arises, preferably in cooperation with other EU countries that also want to change. We must not be so devoted to our own agreement that we do not want to see if there is a possibility of improvement. What about Article 19? Article 19 of the EEA Agreement states that we should also gradually bring down the customs barriers linked to the agricultural sector. To what extent have we done this? In the area by area, we can look at changes, but the EEA Agreement as an instrument lies there and has to lie there. When I wrote my student assignment at the beginning of the 1990s, I remember Norwegian trailers with salmon were stopped at the border of Europe, precisely because there were not enough agreements. The EEA Agreement is important because we get a standardised arrangement. It also makes other free trade agreements important. The Progress Party is in favour of free trade agreements with as many countries as possible, but we must make the best possible agreements on behalf of Norwegian companies and Norwegian citizens. We do that, and we're going to go for it. But it must not be that we cannot – if possible – look at whether positive changes can be made. That's what this is all about, and I think everyone in this room agrees. In this respect, this China agreement is so important. We see positive ring effects and signals from business immediately, we see it coming into place. Then we'll see how the salmon price goes, but at least I'm going to urge the Minister of Fisheries – when he comes back – to make sure that we get more concessions to produce even more salmon, which can be sold ‘world wide’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2388	I think there has been a good debate on how Norway can further contribute to poverty reduction by focusing on education, health, business development and climate and energy measures. All of this is important for economic and social development in the countries for which we provide assistance. I also see that there is broad support for the government's commitment to humanitarian aid at a time when the range of crises, wars and natural disasters affecting millions of people may seem almost endless. The representative Huitfeldt asked questions about the investment in renewable energy. We just have to admit that last year was a very difficult and especially year because of the large refugee costs that were incurred, which meant that you had to reduce the budget appropriations then. However, considerable funds have now been committed. We have a budget of 495 million. NOK, also thanks to the loss of another 25 million. In the budgetary agreement, which allows us to remain a key partner in the field of renewable energy in key cooperation countries such as Liberia, Nepal, Mozambique, Myanmar, Tanzania and Haiti. With a consolidated portfolio and with increased appropriations for 2017 we are now looking forward to a continuation and renewed effort in the field of renewable energy. Renewable energy investments are capital intensive. The government has therefore wanted to turn its efforts in the field of renewable energy more towards private investment. It may also be appropriate to mention that the capital injection into Norfund’s renewable energy investments is maintained at a high level in the budget for 2017. Then I would like to join in what Sylvi Graham said about the importance of combating sexual mutilation. It is a cruel act, and it is a suffering for which women should be spared. This is so important that in the action plan on equality in foreign and development policy that the U.D. has now launched, its own programmes are specifically aimed at gender mutilation. That means that this is definitely an area that is in focus and that will be given priority. I also welcome the clear support given by Sylvi Graham to the government's five thematic initiatives. It is also very important to stress that the UN Sustainable Development Goals are now at the root of Norwegian development policy. In the end, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the clarification that has been made regarding the EEA Agreement, and that there is still broad support for the agreement in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2403	For a sunbathing, a speech time of 3 minutes is relatively short, so you have to draw yourself several times to get what you want to say. I'll come up with some assistance. It is very important that the assistance we provide to a number of countries is done in the right way, among other things. by making demands to counteract corruption, but not least that we see that we are having an effect out of the means given. Nevertheless, the very investment related to education and trade is all, most important if we are to get people out of poverty. Aid itself does not promise a single country out of poverty. Aid itself does not lead to people getting along in the long-term perspective. It's trade and trade between countries, that you actually buy the goods, that brings countries out of poverty and increases well-being. That's why it's important that we have that focus. The last theme I'll come up with is defence related. I want to pay great tribute to the Minister of Defense who presented a long-term plan where she was very clear on one thing, and that is that what we are now putting into the long-term plan, we must make sure to finance. We don't have to throw blues in the eyes of those out there, in the defense, and just put new things in without funding it. It creates a false security. It creates wrong expectations. And I want to give a great reward to the Minister of Defense for having just been very clear on behalf of the government. It is nice that we made an agreement on the long-term plan with the Workers' Party, and later with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which also funded next year's basis for both the investments and not least the conversions to be made. This is important, and it shows that the Storting, when you want to get things done, can work together and get things to work properly. It seems to me to be a great honour to this House – both in the context of the long-term plan, where one has a majority, and at the same time to have respect for one another and to fund it up also within the budgetary framework. I think that's important, because it sends a signal that the defence is important to everyone. And then it's always like changing the long-term plans, and it's going on in the government. I've also been listening to various changes, but it's important to make changes now, because we have to adapt to the time we're in, and then we can't have a defense for the past, we have to have a defense for the future. I remember very well that the red-greens in their work related to the Home Office helped to lay down more Home Office districts – more than one has discussed at all in this government. You have to take that over. We must not say one thing from this pulpit in opposition, and do something else when we sit in position. This room has made sure that we get a good defence budget when it is adopted today. In addition, we also have a good long-term plan, and it is very, very important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2418	I also want to focus on the defence. We live in an uncertain world, both in Europe and with our big neighbour in the north – but also internationally, as others have pointed out. It is also in favour of the forces we have abroad, which are either in Afghanistan, in the Kurdish areas of Iraq, in Baghdad or still in Mali. I think it's few that five years ago could imagine that it's just where the Norwegian forces are. I also think that underlines the uncertainty that we can expect in the future. It is important for the Left that we strengthen our defence, that we strengthen our defence in the coming years. That is exactly why we have stressed that we should already make a decision on the land force, that it should have been a strengthening of the Army. The size has previously adopted both air protection, upgrading tanks and new artillery. It is now being pushed out further in time by waiting for a new land-use study. For the Left, it's important that we keep a strong shelter – 45,000 men. They need more training, and that should also include the Sjöheimewert, because we need a coastal defense where the Coast Guard Command is also. With regard to the needs of the current security policy situation, my concern is the content of the long-term communication, precisely because it adds up to such large investments. Either F-35 or P-8 now, and as big moves as, for example, The move of a well-functioning air base on Andøya to Evenes, without the basis we believe it is necessary to make such major changes, is a major concern that it causes uncertainty that when the land-use study comes and priorities have to be made later, the funds are tied up and we will not be able to make a decision on a strong land-use defence, and that decisions have already been taken to make this a deterioration, with a merger of home-protection and army – and other proposals. We fully agree that we need 52 F-35 planes. We totally agree that you have to have a MPA, whether it's Orion or P-8. And we fully agree that we need to bet on special forces and cyber defence, but we have to incorporate this so that we do not weaken what is the main priority with a strengthened country defence. Therefore, the Left is pleased that our priorities: to maintain the Coast Guard Command, to maintain activity in the Maritime Protection Agency, to strengthen the Home Guard and the Army and to maintain the structure of the Home Guard, are included in the budget agreement, so that we can continue to maintain our priorities when the Land Power Study finally arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2429	I have to say that the central party – what to call it – is an isolationist and protectionist line in trade policy is very special to listen to. It's actually a threat to our national interests. Just to think about the idea of wrecking the EEA Agreement, I would say that I am gambling with the interests of the Norwegian business community and also with the workplaces. During the demanding transition period in the Norwegian economy, it is incredibly important to maintain predictable trade policy framework conditions in order to secure jobs, create new ones, but also to ensure the basis for well-being. I think both Norwegian business, people working in competitive industries, in forestry, in aquaculture and coastal industries along the entire Norwegian coast, notice the Central Party's rhetoric. What I really took the floor for was to stress at the bottom of the debate the importance of the work done to strengthen women's rights and equality in development and foreign policy. There is broad political consensus that women's rights and gender equality should be promoted and strengthened through targeted action and integrated into all development work. In the process of increasing girls’ access to education, Norway and the Prime Minister have taken on a global leadership role. It is worrying when we see that progress is partly in the wrong direction, that the living conditions of girls and women are weakened in a number of countries, and in areas marked by war and conflict. Numbers from UN Women show that the number of UN member countries with authoritarian developments, where women's rights and opportunities are restricted or threatened, has doubled in a few years. That's why it's incredibly important that the strategic efforts of women in our focus countries are strengthened in the budget, that we continue to invest heavily in girls' education, molestation and efforts to combat sexual mutilation, because we know that these areas are crucial for girls' and women's everyday lives, for their influence in the family and in society. On our committee trips around, we have met a number of women who have told us, giving personal evidence of the difficult situation they face because of these circumstances. It is therefore important that Norway, together with some other participating countries, has succeeded in achieving gender equality as a separate sustainability objective and a theme that has been incorporated across the United Nations Development Agenda. Norway is a central actor in the UN to ensure that it is not rocked by established international commitments on women’s rights and that they are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2438	Two comments: Representative Nesvik pointed out that the EEA Agreement could be changed. It is a dynamic agreement that is changing, in the sense that regulatory development can still be based on experience. What the Commission has just done, among other things, is to propose amendments to what is called the export of welfare services. Some adjustments to the rules have been proposed, for example: that you must have worked for three months in a neighbouring country before you can bring with you acquired rights to leave. Another example is that if you are not a work immigrant, but for example. • a pensioner, and who wants to live in another country, must have health insurance. What is not proposed to change, and which has often been the subject of the debate here, is child-responsive, because the Commission says that cross-border child-responsiveness is less than 1 pst. of total child protection in the EU, and they do not consider that to be a major problem. But there is an ever-increasing trend, and the fact that, as an overall committee – almost collectively at least, as far as I remember – in the trade notification, which we discussed in ours, pointed out, was to ask the government to think a little outside the box to improve market access to fish in the EU. So that there is a need for adjustments and changes that better take care of our interests, I'm not in doubt about it, but there's something other than telling you to cancel the EEA Agreement and replace it with something you don't know what is, like it happened in the United Kingdom. Then the representative pointed to the resistance to trade agreements, so-called transnational trade agreements – TTIP and TISA. I don't know if those are proper terms. It is absolutely right to ensure that such contracts do not undermine either environmental or safety standards, consumer rights or employee rights. However, as far as the TTIP is concerned, it is a prerequisite for the Commission’s negotiating mandate, from the European Parliament, that this should not happen. Then I think we should conduct the debate on that basis, and not believe that there are some mysterious men in some dark back room who are able to outsmart both European governments and the European Parliament. And it is absolutely right that the experience of trade agreements can be bad if you have bad national policies. Lack of economic progress for the middle class in the United States since the 1970s or 1980s is due to national policies, not trade policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2449	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2454	It's like that when there's no talking time – it'll be short. Only a small line to it with trade agreements. I would appreciate if the representative Agdestein or anyone else who has spoken so hot now could give me concrete examples of at least one company that has now gained access to the EU's internal market, through the EEA, and which had not received it through the trade agreement that Norway had had for many decades before. I have to make it clear that the Center Party is in favour of trade, we are in favour of trade between independent countries, but against dynamic trade agreements that impose power on elected representatives, that move power either to other forums transnationally or into multinational companies. What I was actually going to talk about is development policy, but it may take us into another debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2465	At the heart of the debate, of course, it is important to both thank you for the debate and to make some comments on what has arisen. Let me start by commenting on the mercenary. It is presented in the context of the 2017 budget, Prop. 1 S for 2016-2017, to which the Committee has previously agreed and described in the configuration of the long-term plan. Just because it is an uncertain world – there are changes – and we had a defence that was underfunded, the efforts of the government come in the first year of the long-term plan, in addition to what we have already done in the budgets, especially for 2015 and 2016. In particular, maritime defence and intelligence have been given the greatest promises because it has been absolutely necessary. In this budget we strengthen the Army by 6 pst. It's a massive and significant reinforcement – we haven't seen the same thing in very many years. In addition, the investments made in the Army will include: for tanks, communication systems, etc. That's five to six billion. SEK in investments over the next four years. We're strengthening HV's budget by 16 pst. It's also a massive reinforcement. It's important to stress, because the strengths that the government had already deployed have a lot to say to just help build the base wall that's so important in order to increase the level of activity. Finally, I would like to comment that it is not right, as the representative of Elvesuen says, that funds are tied up to, for example. Maritime patrol planes and submarines, that decisions have been made, or that the Army and the Home Guard are to be merged. On the contrary, funds have been set aside for both maritime patrol aircraft, submarines, fighter aircraft, etc. and for large investments in the country's power. We must ensure that we have a strong and relevant land power. It is absolutely crucial for a country like Norway. Therefore, it is set by approx. 30 B.C.E. NOK in the 20-year perspective of these investments, which I was a little involved in the exchange of lines with the representative Elvesuen earlier. To make a comparison, I think it might be good to look at the planning basis that was in the current long-term plan, i.e. for the four-year period 2013–2016. There the previous government said that 634 million were to be re-prioritized. kr from foreign operations to other measures in the long-term plan. That was the base. So it wasn't any fresh money, but it was the base. In this long-term plan, the framework for the four-year period is well known. So we're starting to strengthen the budget by 2.2 billion. kr in the first year of the long-term plan. There's a massive difference, which shows a clear bet, a clear direction and a clear prioritisation of the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2480	Representative Elin Rodum Agdestein uses strong words against the Center Party, so strong words that we are a threat to national interests. I've heard it before – I've heard it before. I have sailed a threat to the country of origin, as the editor in the Official Journal of Drammen said in the 1990s. It doesn't make any sense, we can take it very well. The EEA Agreement is a sacred cow for both the Workers' Party and the Right here in the Chamber. It's going to develop into a significant problem, because it's a fact that it's the nation state that's the weakest one's best protection, it's in the nation states that one can secure the people's rule and secure the democracy that everyone has in mind when it comes to correcting the injustice of society. As the representative Svein Roald Hansen said, the EEA Agreement is a dynamic agreement. Now it is no longer just No to the EU that agrees that the dynamic agreement is a housekeeper's contract, it is also Yes to the EU leader's agreement. The Prime Minister also said, in the context of Brexit, that the EEA Agreement was a very bad agreement. And when we know that the EEA Agreement is connected to what EU citizens now call an unillusioned experiment – the whole of the EU is an unillusioned experiment – because there is an economic union without a political union, it is the system error that is now increasingly proving to be a problem and that people are responding to, naturally enough. The central party is responsible for replacing the EEA Agreement with a trade agreement – from, for example, to have the free movement of labour to regulated labour immigration, from a labour immigration that we have today, which creates significant problems. I ask that more people read the National Audit Office's report on the crime of working life, on social dumping in public contracts and on non-payment of taxes because we do not have matters to attend to, which is absolutely fundamental to the order of business. National policies are important, as Svein Roald Hansen said. I totally agree with that. It is possible to pursue more or less good policies within the framework of the EEA Agreement. Now there is no good policy; we agree on that. But the most important thing is that, at present, we have received 12,000 legal acts through the EEA Agreement, which now permeate the Norwegian community in an increasing number of areas, leading to people knowing greater and greater renunciation. Therefore, not least the EEA Agreement must be replaced by a trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2494	I am pleased that the Minister of Defence so clearly stresses that we must have a strong and relevant country power. So I didn't say that we've made decisions to merge army and home security. But that there's a concern that there's too much that's locked up in other investments is definitely right. It has been difficult to obtain figures in relation to the long-term plan. The left has asked a lot, and we've had to figure out a lot ourselves. There was probably one table in the long-term plan. It is also partly difficult to read the figures in the budget. I think when it's referred to 16 pst. increase in Home Security, that it includes an efficiency effect, which has also been introduced as if it were a strengthening. When we look at previous decisions, that Ørland has gone from 5 billion. NOK 15 to SEK 15 billion. kr – at least there is a significant increase, in billions, in Ørland – it is clear that we have a concern about the move, for example. from Andøya to Evenes. The uncertainty is what makes us think we should make this decision now, and that we had a clearer priority of what we want to do first. It is precisely a strengthening of the army and land power. It's about buying artillery, it's about having an air force, it's about upgrading pancakes, as well as having a boost in number and size. We believe that here we should also look at having a hunting battalion in Porsangs, as well as that we need to maintain the strength that we have in Homeland Protection, including a maritime shelter. I have to believe the Minister of Defense when she says that it is enough in the long-term plan to achieve a mechanized and traditional army structure and strengthening of this. That's definitely something. That also applies to the agreement we have on the budget for next year, with which the Left is well pleased, where we are just maintaining the capacities that we are committed to, and not just for next year, but also retaining into the years to come as a living coastal defence, with a coaster command, with a maritime protection, a strengthened home protection and also a strengthening of the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2507	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2512	I thought I would mention first of all – I have just been told by parliamentary leader Nesvik – that the Russian ambassador to Turkey has been shot by an Islamist in Ankara, I think it was. Maybe it's pretty easy to get involved in a foreign policy debate, so we don't get completely navigable here either. I would like to say to the representative Svein Roald Hansen: if it is the case that the EU has taken the initiative to do something about social security exports that is going on, through the EEA Agreement or EU trade, I cannot understand why the Labour Party could not be involved in a comment that says exactly the same thing, that we should look at it. It's going to be a little bit inconsistent. In Norway, for example, there has been a lack of data on drugrelated deaths. Greece and Poland have exactly the same commercial policy interests. Therefore, it is possible to look at some schemes linked to the EEA Agreement, not least exports of labour, which are a major challenge in many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2519	I initially didn't intend to take the word again, but I have to clarify what are some obvious misunderstandings. Firstly, the increase to the Army and HV are real growth rates. So it's not including efficiency gains, etc. It's real growth for both. So to Ørland: The Storting has been regularly updated through the budget proposals on the development of the EBA project in Ørland. There are two factors that have made Ørland more expensive than originally planned. One is that the chosen hangar solution – the one chosen in 2012 – cannot be used because it is not safe enough, and new hangar concepts need to be developed. It has, among other things, with regard to the security policy situation and the threat picture, and the fact that we are facing other threats, including: from long-range missile systems – than what we did before. The second is noise, where the Ministry of Local Affairs has set some noise limits which make it more costly to dispose of dwellings. These are two factors that would be there regardless of where you put the base. This is also well-informed about the Stortinget. The cost increase so far is estimated at about 1.6 billion. So kr, not from 5 billion. NOK 15 to SEK 15 billion. kr, as the representative of Elvesuen said. There's no way there's any number that's right. But the Storting is well informed and well informed about this in the budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2532	The representative Harald Tom Nesvik made a very wise contribution when he stressed that the primary responsibility for the development of each country must lie in the country itself. It is also a very important principle that is now enshrined in the UN's sustainability objectives. On a day like this when the foreign minister is in China, it might be a bit tempting to develop a Chinese saying that it does not help to give the poor a fish. We actually have to teach him how to fish. It is the essence of the need to enable countries to contribute actively to their own development. In this context, it may be nice to announce that the U.D. is taking a step further and is now launching its own programme, ‘Fishing for development’. I know from my time as Minister of Fisheries that in fact is in demand. Norway is a country with good knowledge of both management and aquaculture, and we are a longing partner of many countries globally. It was Lundtigen who made me take the floor, for his association with so-called quotations from the Prime Minister is quite deplorable. The Prime Minister has never said that the EEA Agreement is a bad deal. But it is a worse deal for a United Kingdom that sits at the table and can actually participate and influence the decisions as an EU member. That's what the Prime Minister said. Nor do I stop wondering what kind of interests the centre party actually thinks they are doing when you are going to notify Norway out of the EEA. Norwegian business doesn't ask for it. Norwegian fishing industry is not asking for it at all. Norwegian students who can study in Europe do not ask for the EEA Agreement to be scrapped. Norwegian pensioners living in Spain do not request that the EEA Agreement be scrapped. That is how I could continue to list all the benefits of the EEA Agreement that we take for granted today, but that would not be a reality if the agreement were no longer present. I don't understand who their interests are, in fact, in the opinion of the Senter Party. Secondly, it is absolutely amazing when, on the one hand, they believe that they should scrap the EEA Agreement. What is the alternative? I have not seen one reasonable alternative put on the table that would safeguard the vital interests of the EEA Agreement today, which is the entrance to 80 pst. of our exports, and which have the predictability that the entire Norwegian business community needs in a world where there is a lot of boredom in many other areas. Predictability is so important in terms of securing jobs here at home along our long coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2545	The representative, Elin Rodum Agdestein, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2550	It is possible that the Centre Party believes that trade agreements can replace the EEA Agreement, but it is largely only the Centre Party that believes in Norwegian policy. What is it that the Center Party has understood, that the rest of us haven't gotten along with us? Fortunately, there is a broad consensus in Norwegian trade policy. What I believe the Centre Party is undermining is the importance of market access to the EU. One also underestimates the effect on the Norwegian economy of creating uncertainty about the framework conditions, and as the Council of State said, what is the alternative? Several have found it quite well today, among others. Representative Svein Roald Hansen – the uncertainty about what will be the content of an alternative when replacing the EEA Agreement. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that it is very unlikely that a renegotiated agreement will be better than the one we now have, along with the EU's stance on the United Kingdom in relation to Brexit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2559	I am pleased that more people are taking the floor on the EEA and trade agreements. And I hope that more people can go to the sources and see what happened in the main hall in 1992, when the EEA agreement was discussed here over two days. One goes through the minutes and sees what was said at the time – what was said about whether it was a dynamic agreement or not, what was meant that the agreement would not apply to them and those areas – can one see who has the most coverage for what was then said and what is the situation today. It is quite clear that what was produced by the EEA Agreement as in 1992 was quite different from what it has evolved into. The EEA Agreement is directly linked to the entire EU system in its dynamic way, and the EU has systematically moved towards the development of a Union and has come to the point where it has introduced its own currency. The problem is that having a currency of your own without having a political superstructure, there are no other countries in the world that have. That's why it's an experiment without a pattern. One cannot have a governance of a large area without political governance at the top of the economy. It doesn't have one. It doesn't get you because people react more strongly and more strongly to the supranationality that lies there. That is why today the whole EU system is in a festivities. One's in a chopping party. One doesn't come up or down, and it creates more and more difficulties, and it reacts to people. It's very interesting to hear how those who view the EEA Agreement as a sacred cow deny these things. The centre party is concerned with the interests of the business community. We are concerned that those engaged in fishing, those engaged in forestry and those engaged in other activities should have good trade relations with the EU. It also had one before the EEA Agreement, in the trade agreement. We can do that again, because we need to have a mutual benefit agreement, and Norway has enormously rich natural resources. What is clearly being sub-communicated from EU and EEA members is the impact and negative impact on employment. I am asking that several representatives of wholesalers travel around and see what is happening in practice in Norwegian working life today. It develops a culture in which is the greatest threat to the Norwegian working life model that has led to serious and safe conditions in Norwegian working life. It's important for the Central Party to address, and that's now one of the key reasons why we need to have a serious debate on this. One case comes up after another on the Norwegian Supreme Court’s relationship with the EU system, as well as on the way Norwegian Supreme Court is overrun by ESA, and that is a major problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2576	I am not going to extend the budget debate too much, but I think there is reason to point out that the EEA Agreement has been a happy compromise for this country. If we ask ourselves the question of the likelihood of Norway becoming a member of the European Union, I think many people will think that it is not so likely that this will happen in the next few years. Equally little probability is that we are going out of the EEA Agreement. I believe that the EEA Agreement has our very happy compromise. To use Lundtigen's words, he thinks it's been an experiment: it's been a very good experiment, a successful experiment, for Norwegian business and for political Norway. We have largely exercised our right to self-determination, but also in areas where we are forced to cooperate, we are doing just that. Not least: the Norwegian people are clear that they do not want to enter the EU, but they are also very clear that they are pleased with the EEA Agreement. So he's going to be 53 pst. who clearly says yes. That's 29 pst. which says no. So the numbers have become stronger, and the Norwegian population is also more positive to the EEA Agreement. So on behalf of the EEA Party the Christian People's Party, we who got our first election through these years at the beginning of the 1990s, I thought it was a nice way to end this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2583	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2588	It was the representative of Lundteg who made me take the floor again. Hearing the representative's two posts made me think a little about what has happened in the last few years since the introduction of the EEA Agreement. It is clear that challenges are being faced, as the Progress Party has said, but the Central Party has been in government since the introduction of the EEA Agreement for more than half of that time. So over half of that time, the party that is now telling you almost how crazy it is, has been sitting and running after it. I have noticed that the Center Party would like to join a future government with, among other things. the largest defender of the EEA Agreement, who believes that nothing should be touched, namely the Workers' Party. Then my question to Lundtigen is: could it be acceptable to go into another period and sit and manage under the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2596	After two such good posts recently from Hareide and Nesvik, I should have given up, but I did not get an answer to my questions to the Center Party, nor today. Whose interests are what you care for, and what is the alternative? When you go so high on the track and say that you have to scrap an agreement that is so important, you are so poor in words or you have such a lack of ability to explain what it is that you should have instead. I think we deserve an answer to that when you go so high on the track. In fact, it is not to understand how the Centre Party is willing to risk Norwegian jobs and Norwegian exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2601	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2606	I notice that no one goes into what is the main problem in the European Union, namely that one has an economic union without a political union, which leads to systemic problems, and which people stand up to around. It's just being denied. What is clear is that the Central Party has been in government, as the representative Nesvik said, and we have made our experience both in government and afterwards. What is important now is to bring up the debate on what is the impact of the EEA Agreement on what is most important for people, namely income for their work. In the workplace, it's an explanation of whether it's stability in a society, and whether it's orderly. If social insecurity persists in terms of income, the country is in serious trouble. That is what we see around Europe, and that is what we also see creeping into Norway by the fact that less and less people feel safe for their own work. So our interests are linked to people's incomes from their work, and the alternative is the trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2615	How we're going to end this debate, I don't know, but I'm drawing on it anyway, to say that in many ways it's right, as the representative Hareide had it, that the EEA agreement has something special that nobody really wanted him – except for the Christian People's Party – but he's been standing for a very long time. What I have been thinking about many times here in the staging room, in Europe debates and in other contexts – especially in situations where we are far from having a wide-ranging membership debate or an EEA debate out in the population – is that I often find it difficult to get followers of EU membership and the EEA Agreement to reflect on and discuss in a calm manner some of the challenges you can still find there. Because there have been some decades now, and there have been significant changes since that time. If I get to mention some changes, the representative Lundtigen is quite right that there is a special situation. Ein has had a very strong economic integration in the EU without a corresponding political superstructure, and it is still very different in the real economies of the countries. This is primarily a problem in the eurozone, which we are not a part of, but which nevertheless turns out to be in the European economy. The second is that the EEA Agreement has gradually brought a number of new agreements, the most recent being the EU’s financial supervision. After all, it's now universally accepted that it means a significant relinquishment of sovereignty from us. At least there should be a basis for debate on how the EEA Agreement is structured. Thirdly, if we look around Europe now, there is no doubt that labour immigration is a major issue that has a very strong influence in the political debate. The United Kingdom was the country that had taken up most of the work immigrants from Eastern Europe. It was probably a large and important underlying theme for their decision about brexit. In my view, how labour immigration enters into countries, and how we deal with it as part of the EEA Agreement, should be the basis for a calm and factual debate in which, with a slightly different starting point, we could at least discuss whether the EEA Agreement has weaknesses and whether there are ways to improve it. It seemed to me to be a shortcoming, both in the debate I have been sitting and listening to now, and in other EU and EEA debates we have had in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2628	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2633	I should have let Solhjell finish, for his remarks are a discussion that I would also like to join in. But the discussion I don't like so much is the discussion where Lundtigen says that the EU is not a strong enough federation to bear its own coinage. I don't expect that to mean that he wants it to be a stronger federation. Then there's something else that's behind, and that argument comes in round two. It's about the fact that someone from other countries who works here has crept in, and about making it clear that we have free movement of labour as a threat to Norway, when it should really be about how we guarantee equal rights and strengthened employment for all workers in Norway. This belief that it is impossible to have rights for people who come from other countries, I refuse to believe in it, I think we can have equal rights for everyone who works in this country anyway. Then we're making too bad a regulation, and not that too many immigrants are coming here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2642	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 5 and 6 are being debated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2671	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2680	I've been to the pulpit here earlier today and I've been talking about an incursion, and I have to continue that melody. I must explicitly make the hall aware that there is a correct version of the setting for case no. 5 we're dealing with here, and it's distributed. This is a number error in proposals for decisions relating to chapters. 161 entry 70, where the corrected version reads as follows: ‘Industry development, can be transferred, increased by 14000000 from NOK 139000000 to NOK 153000000’ - not from six months ago. NOK, as stated in the setting that was wrong. Let me also say from the committee, which has made a unanimous decision, we'll see where this is going, that we've noticed that under programme area 2, foreign administration, a net increase of 139 million is proposed. DKK due to an additional demand of 159 million. D to UN peacekeeping operations and a net reduction of 20 million. kr to other organisations. The additional need for UN peacekeeping operations is due to overhang from 2015, resulting from the UN three-year cycle of negotiations on the scale of contributions. In the case of other adjustments, the 20 million. kr, due mainly to changes in exchange rates measured against Norwegian krona. The Committee has also noted that, under Programme Area 3, International Development Assistance, a total of 662 million redisposals are proposed. kr. Redisposals are mainly possible due to less ODA-approved asylum and refugee expenditure in Norway than previously assumed. It is proposed by the majority of the Committee that Chapter. 163 for humanitarian aid increased by 486 million. In Syria and neighbouring countries, where the humanitarian needs, as is well known, are still very high – a 14 million change. kr from the government's original proposal. The Committee took note of the fact that Chapter. 150, Development aid to Africa, is proposed to increase by 50 million. kr, that cap. 164, peace, reconciliation and democratic action are increased by 2 million. kr. – in this case for the work of women affected by conflict in Iraq, with the focus on women from areas liberated from ISIL – that cap. 170, UN organisations are proposed to increase by 15 million. kr, that entry 76 of this chapter is proposed to be increased to support the UN Peacebuilding Fund. The Committee also supports the action. 171, Multilateral financial institutions, increased by 51 million. kr to neighbouring country support for Syria and to the World Bank’s new multiplicity fund for water. The majority have also made a proposal indicating that Banco D-Miro, a bank owned by the Mission Alliance through Alliance Microfinance AS, reaching over 40,000 loan customers, was nominated in 2014 for Ecuador’s best microfinance bank by the Inter-American Development Bank. We are also aware that Banco D-Miro's existence is threatened as a result of the earthquake that recently struck the country. More than 4,000 loan customers come from the worst affected areas of the province of Manabi, and it amounts to over 50 pst. of equity. That's why Banco D-Miro is facing a huge challenge when the bank will now have a significant loss of several million US dollars on the loan portfolio. It's been a desire to secure the bank's further operations, and that's why it's $14 million. I have come in. It is a pleasure to recommend the suspension, which in total strengthens our humanitarian work and aid work due to the release of funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2700	So this applies to the necessary budgetary adjustments. Appropriations shall be consistent with the revised budgetary assumptions. There is a total increase in the Ministry of Defence appropriations of 328 million. kr. The increased costs include: to veterans with psychological damage, there are additional costs to Rygge Airport due to the closure of Rygge civil airport, and there are additional costs to Frontex’ border control operation Triton. It's a totally adjusted defense budget of 50,837 million. kr. That's a lot of money. It also requests the approval of the acquisition of new maritime patrol aeroplanes to replace P-3 Orion and Jet Falcon. This is in line with the already adopted long-term defence plan. The cost framework for the project is 9 825 million. kr. The acquisition takes place via US authorities through Foreign Military Sales. The Committee is clear that the requirement for industrial cooperation is firm. Acquisitions shall take place only if industrial cooperation obligations are entered into in parallel with Norwegian industry in line with adopted policies in this area. This means that cooperation between the US and Norwegian industries should be equivalent to the acquisition amount and that a binding and binding commitment must be signed in advance of the conclusion of the contract. The acquisition project has not been the subject of external quality assurance and the minority proposes that this be carried out and that alternative candidates be evaluated. The minority also requests the promotion of an investment proposition. I guess the minority will explain this. However, I would like to stress that the Progress Party also records this somewhat unusual and rapid progress process and assumes that the government, regardless of this, has full control on all sides of the projects. The phase-in of aeroplanes will take place between 2021 and 2022. It is worth noting that the Air Force will phase in several major projects during the same period and that this will be demanding. It is therefore important to take this into account in future work. The regrouping proposal further informs about possible changes in the ownership structure of Aerospace Industrial Maintenance, AIM, according to previously adopted policies. In the past, the Storting has expressed its ambitions to create a strong Norwegian-owned air-military maintenance environment. A strong Norwegian defence industry is a prerequisite for strong Norwegian defence. The proposition also refers to the internal efficiency and competitive outsourcing of cleaning services. This is very positive and contributes to the defence budgets being allocated to the tasks that the voters and society assume for the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2719	The biggest single thing about what's being presented here is the question of the maritime patrol planes. This was a discussion we had in connection with the long-term plan, where there was disagreement in the main hall, but where 80 pst. by the representatives of big business that this is an important capacity, that it is of great national importance that we have good surveillance aircraft, and that it is we who are monitoring our maritime areas ourselves. What is particularly important in this case is that an external quality assurance has not been implemented, as is the practice on large projects. The reason why an external quality assurance has not been carried out is that the project presents a low risk, but most importantly that there are some highly classified elements. This means, given that this is a major acquisition project, that there is somewhat less information for the Storting than is natural in terms of acquisitions in such a high price range. On this very basis, I would like to stress that the government of this acquisition project has a special responsibility to carry out a comprehensive internal quality assurance, to ensure good economic and project management and to keep the Stortinget continuously up-to-date on the further development of this material project, with particular emphasis on cost development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2728	There is not usually much unease and debate about the balancing propositions. Small adjustments for current year costs are usually not much to debate. Through the presentation of Prop. 27 S, the government has just put forward a proposition that has to be associated with some comments. A balancing proposition shall look backwards. We will look at the year that has passed, whether costs that have been incurred throughout the year are in line with the government's budget. Of course, it also does the propositions that have been made. Nevertheless, it is well-suited to surprise the government through Prop. 27 S requests authorisation to make a very large investment. In fact, the government is asking for an authorisation to invest in new surveillance aircraft, an investment with costs that is likely to be much greater than 10 billion. kr. This calls on the government to ensure that the Stortinge has not been given anything but an overall overarching estimate of costs, without KS1 and KS2, for the reasons for which the Chairman of the Committee has done well and with some lines in a regrouping proposition. This is most unusual. On 29 August this year, I received an answer to a question about the costs of investing in new P-8 surveillance aircraft. The Council of State then replied in a letter to the Stortinget that one could not provide such information, which would be important in managing the long-term plan, because one had not decided which system and supplier to choose and that such information could affect potential suppliers. Since the cases then come to Stortinget in this way, as a sort of urgent matter, there is reason to ask whether the information in the letter to Stortinget is entirely consistent with the progress in the matter. So I want to ask the Council of State in their article to do the right thing for the process. When a commitment agreement was entered into and intended for the government, why did the Storting not want to provide the information I requested as a basis for the work on the long-term plan? The closure of the airbase on Andøya was a major issue in the work on the long-term defence plan. It is true that there is a large number of people who went in to lay down the base on Andeya, but it is not said that it is more correct. That issue has nothing to do with today's debate, but it is nevertheless being updated as the government has put in the purchase of surveillance aircraft in the age of the year's budget. So there is also another point I would like to ask the Council of State to do something about it. In Prop 27 S we can read that surveillance aircraft must be delivered in 2021–2022. Will the base of Evenes, which is now to be expanded, be completed at that time? That's interesting, because it's related to the possibility of possibly accepting them flying on, and then they also fly from, the base of Andy Island. In that case, how will it affect the cost of moving, and how will it affect the slowdown and closure of the Andean air station like Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party? There are questions that are important, and as it might be nice to know before giving the authority that will be given here today. With regard to the external budget, there is more of a traditional regrouping proposition, which is not so much to say, except that there have been some possibilities for increasing resources for development work. It's a normal thing, it's called a balancing proposition or regrouping proposition, and that's why we need to get a little bit more information about what's at stake here today. I'm taking up the proposals of the Center Party together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2753	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsette, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2758	It's a significantly simpler job Stortinget has with the treatment of the regrouping propositions this year, than we had last year. The reason for this is that the number of asylum seekers has been lower than expected, while last year we experienced the opposite. We know that due to ODA legislation, this leads to significant changes in the development budget. But this time we feel that we can redo nearly half a billion dollars in this year's aid budget to increase humanitarian aid, and then it's natural that Syria is on top of the priority list. We are now spending billions a year on humanitarian aid for this part of the crisis region. The civilian population in Syria and Iraq suffer from the acts of war. Millions are internally displaced, and their neighbouring countries have in a short time had to accept millions of refugees. Very many people have had shelters at private homes. Many refugee camps are overcrowded. When UN emergency pills are not fully funded, refugees do not get the help they need, and we go into a cold winter. That's why there's 486 million redisposals. humanitarian aid at the end of the year is extra good and can mean a difference for those who need it the most. I would also like to refer to the regrouping proposition within the Ministry of Defence. When there are budgetary changes, there is complete agreement on that. What this time created this one in the committee was that the government filed a case that had nothing to do with the year's defence budget. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that Norway should still have its own maritime surveillance capacity in our neighbourhood. But Stortinget should be given more additional information before a decision was made to approve this large investment project for about 10 billion. kr. We expect the government to come back with a case of buying new maritime surveillance aircraft. That is why I support proposal No. 1, from the Center Party, the Left Party and the Left Party. If that proposal were to fall, we would support the Committee's recommendation in a secondary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2767	First, I would like to join Knut Arild Hareides in pointing out the joy of the fact that here we can strengthen humanitarian aid, given the situation that is, especially in the Middle East, but also otherwise. I would also like to address the last point, the launch of an investment project for the continuation of MPA and ISR capacity, which is within this ageing of the year's budget. The left finds it really quite strange that it is here, and that there is such a small basis for making a decision on the part of Storting, also in view of the fact that it has been so short of time since the long-term plan. I would also like to point out that all state investment projects with an estimated cost of over 750 million. kr shall be subject to external quality assurance. We cannot see that such a quality assurance has been carried out for this project. There is little information on investments in the proposition, and there is also a reference to an opportunity study that has been limited by time to get involved. We therefore believe that there is not sufficient grounds for agreeing to the launch of this investment project, and we will therefore support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I look forward to the answer to the question that Mr Navarsete also asked, when we can expect the P-8A to be operational, whether it is in 2021 or 2022, and whether it will also lead to investment in Andeya Air Station, whether this is a double investment, and whether Evenes could be ready. I think this is an important question. The left might have realized that the investments we've already made on Orion could have been used anymore, but we're not against having P-8A. We are willing to make that assessment, but believe that it should have come as a matter of its own, not just as a small part of a proposition and a balancing of the year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2780	First, I should like to refer to the SV's note in the recent ageing of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There we will – very simply told – mention that Norway’s small cost of reducing the number of refugees in 2016 will be used in full over the aid budget for the so-called neighbourhoods in the Middle East and in other major humanitarian crises. It is fully possible, and there are organisations that effectively, at the end of the year, can use resources for it. I am addressing the loose proposal, which is not in the configuration, and which, for simplicity, can well call an incursion, since I delivered it in the morning today. I'm going to use the main part of my post for something else, because it's not a everyday cost to discuss an investment of over 10 billion. In a debate on the ageing of the year’s budget, it does not belong there either. This investment, like all other major investments, should appear in an investment proposition, where the Storting will be fully informed of the alternatives and the costs. All investments over 750 million. kr shall be externally quality guaranteed by KS1 and KS2, according to the Ministry of Finance and the legislation of each government. It is not done here, although the investment is over 10 billion. kr. That legislation was introduced around the turn of the millennium. One did so on the basis of many large misinvestments, especially in the defence sector and before transport – but also in other areas – and it has subsequently had a demonstrable effect on reducing the incidence of large misinvestments in society. The government says that the investment has ‘low risk’, but the point of quality assurance legislation is, of course, just to guarantee that type of assessment and reduce risk. Historically, we have seen too many misinvestments in the country in general and in defence in particular. Fregatt investments are one example. This was also considered a safe investment, but was not. The proposed P-8A investments must be properly guaranteed, regardless of whether the government itself feels there is a low risk. An argument that can still be pointed to, to do so quickly, is that it may be the higher grade that makes the investment difficult. But it is difficult to see that there is no reasonable way to ensure as much quality as possible, as much as possible, through the quality assurance regime. I do not know similar examples of such a large investment that has not gone through the external quality assurance regime. Several NATO countries have agreed to continue with P-3 Orion. We've just spent a lot of money upgrading that plane. However, SV shares the government’s emphasis on the need for maritime monitoring capacity and has been prepared and prepared to support an upgrade in that direction. But buying them planes without quality assurance, without more information than is in the recent years and in the additional information we have had access to, and without our own investment proposition, which is a violation of common investment practices, is economically irresponsible. It is difficult, I think, to understand the urgency, measured against the increased risk of not implementing an external quality assurance. In my time in politics, I can't remember seeing such a large investment with such a weak foundation for Stortinget, and who has had such a weak external quality assurance, considering the regulations on which it is based. For me, it seems very unwise for the Minister of Defence and the government to take on the considerable responsibility that lies in it for the future. I would like to stress that SV is not willing to do so and will go against that investment on that basis, despite the fact that we share the intention behind it, namely that Norway should have an independent and good maritime monitoring capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2796	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2801	I think it's important to keep two debates apart. One is the debate on whether it is possible to promote this type of proposal in the regrouping proposal – it has also been done in the past – and the other is the question of quality assurance procedures. In order to continue with a national ability to monitor – which I feel the whole committee is concerned about – in line with the Storting's treatment of the long-term plan, the government is therefore proposing to acquire five P-8 Poseidon maritime patrol aircraft. It supports the priority that Stortinget has made and the structure that Stortinget has chosen for the Defence. It is absolutely essential that we should be able to continue to have such a capacity. When the planes we operate today are replaced, they will already have operated 50 pst. longer than the previous version we had. Then the planes will be 32 years old, a considerable age for a surveillance plane. In order to maintain a relevant capacity, it is important that we also acquire new ones. The regrouping proposition was the first opportunity for the government to communicate formally with the Storting around this, and that is a completely legal way of communicating with Stortinget. In the regrouping proposal, the government promotes the overall framework of the project and requests authorisation to launch the project within the specified cost framework. The mandate will enable the Norwegian authorities to continue working on the terms of a possible agreement and possibly to sign a formal contract with the US authorities in time for the aircraft to be delivered according to the ambition of the schedule. The purchase is planned as an ordinary acquisition by the US authorities, in line with the framework for State investment projects in the defence sector. The agreement will also involve Norway becoming a participant in a major contract negotiated by the US authorities on behalf of itself and other participating nations, so that everyone benefits from the economies of scale. A formal offer from the US authorities is expected in early 2017. Given the approval of the project in Stortinget, a contract for the conclusion of a contract will be negotiated during the first quarter of 2017. The size will be adequately informed about the development of the project. The project follows basic governance principles and procedures to ensure control of progress, quality and expenditure. Based on the preparation and new additional information of the long-term plan, a decision-making and management basis has been developed, where the need is well defined and possible and relevant conceptual alternatives have been assessed. The aeroplanes proposed for acquisition have been developed and already deployed in operational operations. In order to strengthen the quality assurance of the decision base, a planning case, a plan study, with the US authorities, was established at the start of the project. The scheme involves the purchase of planning services and provides increased transparency in the estimates and relevant conditions of the US authorities regarding the operational operation of the aeroplanes. The project has thus been assessed to have a low risk with regard to the overall economic scope. The proposed material cost framework amounts to up to EUR 9,825 billion. kr. In addition, the purchase of equipment is carried over the budgets of the intelligence service. The additional costs of the intelligence service budgets are classified information. The project contains some highly graded items and for this reason there is a need to screen several of the items in the project. The details of the highly classified elements of the project cannot be provided for transparency and therefore the project is excluded for external quality assurance by private consultants. This means that there is of course a quality assurance of the project, but not an external quality assurance of private consultants, and this is done in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. The economy that has been safeguarded is in line with the long-term plan. Finally, it is already stated in the long-term plan that today’s P-3 Orion continues on Andøya until new maritime surveillance aircraft are phased in on Evenes in the period 2020-2023. So there is nothing new in this acquisition plan and it is entirely in line with the long-term plan and with the assumptions made in the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2818	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2823	I agree with what the Council of State says that it is entirely possible to present that kind of issue in the regrouping proposition. But the question I have is whether there shouldn't have been a more complete information for a project of about 10 billion. kr. Then I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party believes it is important that Norway should still have its own maritime surveillance capacity in our neighbourhood. But when we make that kind of investment, it is important that the Stortinge gets as much information as possible, and I find it difficult to look at the documentation that the government has chosen to provide in the regrouping position. My question is: does the Council of State see that one could get more information about such a large project?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2830	In a project like this that I have explained, it will be a lot of information that has been graduated. It has been in the same type of acquisitions in the past, and it is probably always going to be, that part of the contract work here is based on contracts that are graduated and therefore cannot be published. That's why I'm offering to come to the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence – there I was last week and explained more to some of the details you can't talk about in the open hall or describe textually. We have also made the opportunity study available to the Committee, so that it can be read and put into. It is also graduated but made available to the members of the Committee. I hope it will help to make the information acquisition bigger than what can be written about and talked about openly for natural reasons. As I also said in my post, we are of course prepared to keep the Stortinget informed about the progress of the project, but then in suitable forms that allow you to also mention the classified elements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2837	That's not all that's legal, is it? It is quite right that, when it comes to investment, it is legal not to implement the general quality assurance and it is definitely legal to propose a future investment in the new age. However, both parts are very unusual, and it is particularly unusual for such a large investment to be made with so little information and without external quality assurance. I want to stop by asking just one question to clarify it completely, and the Council of State brought it up by itself, namely the Ministry of Finance, so that it stands in the future: do I understand correctly that the Ministry of Finance agrees that this is the best way to implement the investment, i.e. not to carry out quality assurance through KS1 and KS2? Is it true that the Ministry of Finance agrees with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2844	This has been a premise since we started the discussions here. Based on the fact that we have some classified information – and partly highly classified information – as part of this project, we have had a close dialogue with the Ministry of Finance to find out what is the best way to conduct quality assurance. Then is the model that we have chosen here, and which I mentioned some of the elements in – among other things. with this ‘planning case’, and also having a dialogue at the level of office – the result we have achieved and which the Ministry of Finance also agrees with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2849	There are a lot of questions you can raise, because there is such a limited amount of information. I understand that not everything can be public in such a case. Nevertheless, it is important that the information that comes to Stortinget is correct. When I received an answer on 29 August to my question about investment costs, it was claimed that one could not say anything about it, because there were several providers, and that such information could affect potential suppliers. I find reason to ask the question correctly: Is it certain that the information given in that letter was correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2854	Firstly, I think it is important to remember that in all large investment projects, until the contracts are concluded, there is a great restraint in being very clear on the overall cost framework. The same applies to submarines. That's because we need to have the best negotiating position possible. The same applies also to coastguard vessels, which we have drawn to in time because we need to have the best possible negotiating position. I think that the representative of Navarsete is also a wise idea. As I said in the closed meeting we had in Stortingen on Tuesday, there has been a dialogue with the US authorities over some time. The reason for this is that we saw at an early stage – so far also the previous government – that the time approached when it was necessary to replace the maritime patrol aircraft we have today with new ones. Then the processes had to get started. That was the background to this opportunity study too, and that was the background to the answer I gave to the representative Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2861	Nevertheless, as the Council of State says, over time one has had a dialogue with American powers of government. It was supposed to be missing, it's a tough thing. And that's precisely why I asked – linked to the answer that was sent to Stortinget. It was made clear that it was not decided which supplier to choose, which system to choose, and there was a lot of talk about. While the impression now given by the Council of State is that one has adhered to American government, and they have probably one product and one supplier, who already has this series of aircraft in production. So I have to be allowed to repeat the question, because there's not a complete match between... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2866	As I explained in Stortinget on Tuesday of the meeting we had, there are also other suppliers. The reason why we started an early dialogue with the US authorities is that we already have cooperation with the US authorities, which extend back to the early 1960s. Of course, it is natural to continue that dialogue and look at the opportunities that lie there. Then the dialogue, which I also presented at the meeting, has gradually become more concrete in terms of possible acquisition. As I explained in my post now, it is expected that we will receive a formal offer from the US authorities at the beginning of 2017, but with relatively fast signatures, simply because there is a production line that can give us economies of scale in terms of price. Of course, we're interested in that, just like the others who now want to acquire P-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2872	I wonder a little about this haste. It's here to point out that P-3 Orion, which we have today, is old. They are, but they're just upgraded for 1.5 million. kr, I think – now I'm going to be a little bit too tall, I used the Officers' Association's estimate on Ørland instead – but they're at least upgraded, so they can fly on. So my question is, why this hasten, that this must happen now? Why can't you wait and make an ordinary proposition for the Storting, so we can make an overall assessment of the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2877	We have made an assessment both in the long-term plan, which the Committee has been able to decide on, and now in the context of the regrouping proposal. As the representative of Elvesuen is well known, our maritime patrol planes have been replaced at regular intervals. Now, especially as technological development and new generations of submarines in our neighbourhoods make it particularly demanding, it's one of the most important capabilities of our monitoring aircraft. Our maritime patrol planes actually have two components. One is the plane body itself. As we all know, an aeroplane's body can survive for a long time, but it's also about the total technical equipment that's on board, both to follow, detect and possibly hit targets even under water.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2882	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2900	Document 1 is a very important document that gives the Stortinget a good overview of the government and administration's work in the last year. This year too, as in previous years, our national audit has produced a comprehensive and transparent document which has provided the Committee with a good opportunity to review all the work of the departments and the work of the National Audit Office on the national accounts. I would like to thank the National Audit Office again for a good job here from the Parliamentary Chair. With some clear reservations, which I'm going to come back to, the main conclusion is that our administration works well. The size may ensure that the decisions taken by the Stortinget are followed up and that the Ministry's work is in line with the laws and intentions laid down. The Committee's observations are, on this basis, unanimous. I would like to point out that the members of the Committee will go into the areas for which they themselves are rapporteurs. The National Audit Office has audited the national accounts and the accounts of the administration of Svalbard. It is new and good that audit reports have also been submitted for the departments’ own accounts. The Committee notes with satisfaction that the vast majority of the accounts have been of good quality and have therefore been approved. There is reason to note that of the 240 accounts reviewed, only ten have received what is called modified audit reports. The Committee is very pleased with this as well. However, one financial statement is not accepted for the third consecutive year. This applies to the Veterinary Institute. The Committee states in its position that this is very critical, and asks the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to finally ensure that the errors and deficiencies contained in these accounts are corrected, after three years of work, and I am pleased that the Minister of Finance is following this. This is an unnecessary thing, really, that it happens this way year after year without us being able to fix it. The Committee supports the reforms aimed at ensuring better governance information and more transparency on public money use. So far, all right. So I'll say, there are fewer significant remarks now than last year. That's good. But the significant comments are mainly in those areas that have gone back over several years. It characterises an overall committee as very serious, also because it concerns areas of concern, and is essential for, the population directly. What are we talking about? We're talking about social security and preparedness. We're talking about information security. We're talking about Nav's benefits, and we're also talking about contract management and securing in the road sector. It is established that the lack of object protection gives rise to the risk that important societal functions will be out of play in critical situations, when we, of course, need them the most. This has a direct connection with 22 July 2011 and the closure and treatment of the Gjørv Commission, as the Stortinget did as a result of the report. The Committee says that it is very alarming that after so long we are now presented with an attitude that shows such a significant failure in the follow-up of this by the government. I would like to take some time to quote from Document 1 and from the committee's position, because there are a few things to say about this from Storting's pulpit, even if it is printed in the ballot box. What is this about, according to the Riksrevision and the setting? Well, it's about: ‘National safety authority emphasises that weaknesses in the management of preventive safety at all levels are our most significant safety challenge. The Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have not strengthened and improved cooperation between the police and the Defence Department, which the National Audit Office considers to be very serious. Good enough protection has not been provided for important public properties with fuselage forces and permanent physical securing of their own features. There is a risk that neither the police nor the defence, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection and protection of essential objects in the event of a threat. The Directorate of Police and Defence have also failed to establish a permanent basic protection for their own protective features according to the requirements of the preventive security service law and the regulation on object safety. [[Safety Act]] Measures taken by the Ministry of Municipal and Modernisation to ensure permanent basic security of the premises of other departments have been delayed and are still pending.» It says so. This is the Riksrevision report to Stortinget on important aspects of Norwegian security, which has been included in the setting, and to which the Stortinget Control Committee joins. So here the Riksrevision uses the expression "very serious", and then it's very serious, for the most part the Riksrevision can use, is just "very serious". Therefore, on this basis, the Committee decided unanimously that this part of Document 1 should be dealt with in a separate setting for the Stortinget. It has been decided to hold an open consultation on this part of Document 1 on 23 January next year. In this area, there is also a classified report and, in consultation with the Presidency and the National Audit Office, an upgraded report will be drawn up on the basis of which this matter will be examined further in Stortinget. Nevertheless, I say, when both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice are present, that during this debate too, there is every reason to raise questions to the government about what their comments on what is happening here, because the Riksrevision goes to the very unusual step of saying that the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice, in their replies to the Riksrevision, does not give a full explanation of what is the reason why the object protection has not happened as intended and adopted by the Stortinget. Significant comments are also made on information security. During the course of last year’s discussion, the Committee underlined the seriousness of this. This applies in a number of important areas and concerns a number of State activities. There are also significant observations on domestic helicopter safety and varying control of the quality of the road network. Here I'm just referring to the notes. The last thing I want to mention in this article is one page at the time the committee has looked at very seriously. I am well informed that the representative Gruvan will go deeper into this, and I will praise the representative Gruvan and the Christian People's Party for the work they have done on this part of the setting. What's this about? Well, it's about something very vulnerable and something very important: it turns out that thousands of children don't get the child benefit they are legally entitled to. There is, of course, a situation that Stortinget beyond Christmas cannot accept in any way. We're talking about 16 000 children who don't get what they're going to have – 4,000 children don't get anything this year, this month. Then something is wrong, and I know that the representative of Gruvan will go into this further, but also here the committee has taken steps to promote a concrete proposal towards the Stortinget, because here it has to be acted quickly. We just can't live with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2947	To the last post, I would like to point out that you could get the impression that it was the state that owed some money, and that the state withheld money that would be legally received by vulnerable groups. As regards the promotion of child contributions and maintenance contributions, the case is that there is a private law agreement between two private parties. When one fails, it is for the state to go in and shoot, against the opportunity to drive it in, from very strong homes – among others. in the case of salary cuts. There is a procedure that does not always bear fruit if people travel abroad or have no Norwegian employer – so that is said. But we are going to go into the debate that the representative Grøvan has made us well aware of. As rapporteur of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, it will probably be remembered from last year that there were many significant and strong comments on the follow-up of the Department on some points, so that there was quite strong criticism of the follow-up of the Department. It was found unsatisfactory that the Ministry had failed to report relevant and reliable accounting information to underlying establishments and that therefore the National Audit Office has not been able to give its opinion on the annual accounts of the Health Directorate and the National Public Health Institute. If you look at the report this year, you'll see that things have improved. I think we should admit that – in our search for imperfection – even though there are still things that have to be done. The National Audit Office carried out a review in 2015 to assess the extent of unfair health refunds. Reimbursements are one of the most difficult areas to address, but now the extent of unfair health refunds paid by the Health Directorate has been assessed. It was paid in total 33.6 billion. NOK in reimbursements in 2015. An important part of the Riksrevision study was to carry out an analysis of the payments, based on the compilation of relevant data. Then it was that the analysis could not be carried out, because of delays in the delivery of the financial data and because there were significant errors and defects in what was delivered. In that case, the national audit cannot rule out the existence of some significant abuses of the funds. The Committee agrees to have a high level of seriousness. The last two points I would like to make here are that there are also shortcomings in reporting on the results of the grant scheme for municipal drug use and weaknesses in the coordination of grant legislation. Both the Committee and the National Audit Board have expressed the expectation that the Ministry will deal with this as quickly as possible – or ‘in an appropriate manner’, as it says in the vote. It can leave something to the imagination. The latter point is that the Committee refers to the ‘Regional Audit Office recommends to the Ministry of Health and Welfare to establish appropriate sanctions against the misuse of the BIP and expects the Ministry to work to follow it up’, in line with the recommendations made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2960	My responsibilities as rapporteur for Document 1 are the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Two of the establishments in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality have received significant comments for 2015. The notes to the Consumer Council relate to the modified report as a result of breaches of state accounting standards. The notes related to the Children’s, Youth and Family Catastrophe, Bufetat, relate to poor training and guidance of foster parents and the need for better protection of sensitive information about children. Buffetate has been a reoccurrence among the agencies that have received significant comments, but the comments in recent years relate to different conditions in which the establishment has settled once they have arrived. I expect, of course, that the conditions pointed out by the National Audit Office for the financial year 2015 will also be corrected at the next round. In addition to this, I have noticed that as a result of the Storting's treatment of Report. St. 17 2015–2016 – Security and care – Foster home for the best of children – is now introduced as a requirement for all foster parents to undergo initial training and that the department is now working to follow this up. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall cover a broad administrative area: food production, food policy, agriculture, forestry, reindeer farming, cultural landscapes, environment, resource protection and the development of new agricultural industries. The Ministry is responsible for a large part of the business throughout the chain from primary producer to consumer. In addition, the Ministry is responsible for two underlying research institutes. The Ministry has launched several processes to modernise and simplify administration. The Food Authority introduced a new organisational model on 1 February 2015 and reduced the number of organisational levels from three to two. The change shall enable the supervision to use more resources for the exercise of supervision and to strengthen the sphere of competence. The Ministry's responsibility includes eight accounts in addition to the Ministry's own accounts. Two of the activities under the department have received significant comments for 2015: the Veterinary Institute and the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, NIBIO. The veterinary institute also received significant comments for 2013 and 2014. It is therefore gratifying that the Management Board of the Veterinary Institute has taken action and made all the necessary changes so that one can expect the accounts for the area to be settled. This may include, inter alia: are disclosed that changes in the management of the institution have been made in the summer of 2016 and that the business is to establish an internal audit. Bioforsk, the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research and the Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes, was merged on 1 July 2015 to become the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy. The aim of the merger was to strengthen multidisciplinary cooperation and cooperation with the university and higher education sectors. It shall include, inter alia: more resources are devoted to the development of new knowledge, innovation-oriented work and management support and less resources for administration, operation and maintenance. This is a positive development in government efforts to reduce red tape.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e2979	I take the floor as rapporteur for the part of Document 1 relating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This department is responsible for 10 establishments. One of the establishments received significant comments for 2015, namely the Employment and Welfare Act. In fact, that department has received significant comments in the last five years. This is a big business, which manages approx. One third of the state budget, and it concerns a great many people in our country. It's therefore essential for our entire welfare system that we can trust Nav, that we can trust that the systems work, and that we can expect people who need benefits to get the right amount paid at the right time. In Document 1 for 2014, the National Audit Office identified significant deficiencies in internal control and security in the Financial System of the Labour and Welfare Act. The Committee took this into account in its comments on the referral. The National Audit Office’s follow-up to the case in 2015 shows that the agency has implemented several actions and that several of the deficiencies have been corrected. That's good. At the same time, we note that the Riksrevision will follow the case further. As I said, it is sad that the National Audit Office also has a number of comments on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for 2015. It is about shortcomings in the work of the Working and Welfare Act on the detection, treatment and collection of mispaid benefits. These are weaknesses in the work of the Labour and Welfare Act on the collection of child contributions. Significant deficiencies are identified in the Information Security Management System of the Working and Welfare Seat. There is insufficient evidence of the results of the housing social work grant scheme. And the National Audit Office points out that there is not enough coordination of grant schemes in the housing social field. There are, therefore, several points of view here, and the Committee takes these comments seriously. But there are, in particular, two areas I would like to address, and as the Committee in its comments pays extra attention. There are shortcomings in the work of the Labour and Welfare Act on the detection, treatment and collection of mispaid benefits and in the work of the Labour and Welfare Act on the collection of child contributions. In these two areas, I think there is particular reason to be aware. I am also sure that I have the whole committee with me here, based on the comments in the vote. First of all, the case of misappropriation of benefits: according to the National Audit Office, we have a situation where large government funds are lost because claims after the payment of social security benefits become obsolete. Thus, payments of errors are not detected. Errors are not detected, and money is not required to be refunded until the claim has expired. What are we talking about here? Yeah, we're talking about 272.5 million. kr found to be out of date in the error payment cases dealt with in 2015. In addition, the 2015 ETA estimated at 129 million. NOK of the outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding outstanding balance. The extent of obsolete cases shows that the length of the procedure is unacceptable. We must now get this straight. Errors must be detected and corrected in time. Nav's management of incorrectly paid benefits, as reported in the report, can help undermine confidence in the social security system. I want to underline this, because it's basically about the very trust in our social security system. We've been into this before, also in previous years. It is enough to mention the issue of implementing the ICT systems in Nav. Why don't we manage to set up systems that enable people to trust that they get what they're going to have in the right time? This is about trust. This rockes at the very core wall of our welfare system. Nav manages large amounts on behalf of the community. They manage funds to go to those who need it the most. Then this must work. I am tempted to quote the Chairman of the Committee Kolberg's opinion from the last time we had Document 1 for consideration, then expressed as a frustration over the lack of results in the Stortinget. I'll quote the committee chairman, who said it like this: "The Court of Auditors says its, the Committee says its, the Storting says its, and then it doesn't help anything. There is a significant problem and a great deal of joy in presenting the vote related to Document 1 this year.’» I'll actually use the same words now and make them mine in terms of what we see of the failure of the Nav and in the follow-up of the Nav. I would ask the Council of State to bear in mind that both the Committee and the National Audit Office believe it is highly critical that the Department has not followed up Nav well enough in this matter. In the course of this extension, I now proceed to the second case, which is at least as important, perhaps even more important, and which also concerns Nav, the case of child support. The National Audit Office has comments relating to Nav’s work on the collection of child contributions. The national audit considers that there is a risk that the child’s safety and care needs will not be adequately met because many do not receive the child benefits they are entitled to when their parents do not live together. In December 2015, more than 16 000 children did not receive the contribution they claim. Nearly 10,000 received less than half of what they claim, and 4,622 of these received no contribution at all. The challenges are particularly high where the contributor is resident abroad or self-employed. The National Audit Office is critical that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not followed up well enough that Nav uses the tools available for the collection of child contributions. The National Audit Office also finds it critical that the Ministry has not clarified possible new and other instruments to ensure that the child’s legal requirements for entertainment are met. The Committee supports this criticism. So we have to remember that we're dealing with children here – children who don't get their legitimate contributions, a vulnerable group who suffers here. The Committee considers this to be critical. I would say that on these two points, both in terms of the follow-up of Nav by the Department, and in terms of the lack of clarification of new instruments, one, in my opinion, is completely on the verge of saying that this is highly critical – at the very limit. That is why we are also promoting a proposal for the Stortinge in this matter. It underscores the seriousness of the matter that we believe this matter has. The Committee considers that more and more instruments should be put in place to ensure that children are not suffering because of a lack of contribution from the proposed scheme. There is an overall committee behind this. The Committee considers that the government should consider new measures to allow more people to receive advance contributions, either by significantly increasing the income threshold or by giving all the children for which they are liable, the right to advance contributions. When almost 5000 children are not entitled to the contribution at all, and twice only half of what they are entitled to, this puts many in a situation which can clearly contribute to increasing child poverty and which might have been avoided through the use of new rules and frameworks for the payment of contributions. In recent years, poverty has come back on the agenda in a stronger way. Several have become aware that poverty affects not only people in other countries but also more people, as well as children, here in Norway. Combating poverty in general and child poverty in particular must and should be an area of activity. It is important that children grow up in safety and that they can participate in activities with other children without financial hindrances. Then it's extra bad if we have public systems that don't contribute enough to children getting the benefits they claim in a timely manner. It can't be like that. That is why the Committee is taking the step of promoting a concrete proposal in this matter, a proposal underpinned by an overall committee. The government is now being given the task of starting work to secure another system, which can ensure these children who are currently lacking a grant. This can be done either by allowing more people to receive advance contributions, by substantially increasing the income threshold, or by granting a right to advance contributions to all children under the responsibility of the State. With regard to details of this as well as financial calculations related to this case, I refer to the cancellation otherwise. In April of this year, the Government, after consulting, sent a basis for the changes to the rules on child contribution with regulations, and the Government budget for 2017 refers to the follow-up of the Ministry. I have expectations for that work, and I have registered that the matter is also mentioned in the budget position of the family and culture committee, which was discussed in Stortinget this Wednesday. The Committee on Family Affairs and Culture also expresses strong concern that many children and families with young children may be in a very difficult economic situation as a result of the non-payment of contributions. In the same setting, the Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, expects concrete improvement initiatives to be implemented by the government in terms of the detection of malpractice, the length of the procedure and the lack of recovery procedures. Furthermore, improvements are assumed to be ongoing and independent of future changes in rules and regulations. Finally, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to endorse the recommendations of the National Audit Office and a clear expectation that the measures on which the government is now being challenged will and should provide improvements. This is about vulnerable children. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3020	I would first like to refer to the rapporteur's thorough briefing and introduction to the matter. There are serious comments from the Riksrevision, which, once again, mainly relate to the same issues that have remained in Document 1 in recent years. As mentioned above, there are social security and preparedness, information security, contract management in the road sector and – not least – Nav services. In terms of object protection, I'll go into it a little bit. The national safety authority points out that police and defence through the use of security forces shall ensure and protect designated properties, objects, when the situation so warrants. As the rapporteur said, the Riksrevision report says that one sees the situation as ‘very serious’. That's the strongest expression the Riksrevision can use. It is very serious that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have failed to strengthen and improve cooperation between the police and the Defence Department on the protection and protection of designated properties through the use of security forces. The Committee points out what the Riksrevision has said, namely that they believe that neither police nor defence, together nor individually, will be able to carry out adequate protection of important objects when the threat situation so warrants. That is why I fully agree with what the Committee has come to do, namely to have a separate consultation on the subject on 23 January, and then to address what properties need to be secured, the scope of physical facility security, permanent security in relation to people, and not least – finally – the emergency protection of properties at the time of an alarm. The last thing, in my opinion, is too bad. There's too little people. The Home Guard has a key role, there's a need for Home Guards here who have much better training and equipment, and there's a need for more Home Guards who can handle the object protection. In the case of Nav, there are undetected social security mispayments and there are unrecovered misappropriations before the requirements expire. The extent of the obsolete cases shows that the length of the procedure is unacceptable. The misappropriation of benefits may undermine the confidence of the social security system. It's at the end of 2015, $2,54 billion. NOK in outstanding claims relating to mispayments. The most important thing is that there has been an increase every year since 2004. And what happened in 2004? Well, then we got the basis for the Nav reform. So it's not going to go the right way. The National Audit Office points out that it is ‘highly critical that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not followed up well enough the work of the State of Labour and Welfare to ensure the timely detection and treatment of mispaid benefits’. The Committee agrees. I will also briefly discuss the child contribution. The representative Countess went through it in a thorough manner. This concerns the safety of children, the care needs of children who are not adequately cared for, and the Riksrevision says that this is critical. I want to repeat what the representative Groevan said, that there are 16,000 kids who did not receive the child contribution they were entitled to, in December 2015. The National Audit Office has pointed out that December is not special, so it is a month that is quite indicative of the situation. 16 000 children did not receive the child allowance they were entitled to. Nearly 10,000 of them got less than half, and almost 5,000 got nothing. Therefore, work needs to be done to improve the situation, as the representative Groevan went into detail. I will also briefly take care of the foster home situation. Foster homes shall be a safe haven for the approximately 10 000 children located there. The National Audit Office points out that foster parents receive too little training, guidance and follow-up to care for children with special needs. The child protection seat must receive increased attention from the Riksrevision. The case on which Stavanger Aftenblad has given a very high price, namely the case of ‘glassman’, is a good example of the need for a thorough review as a basis for decisions to be taken in the future. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is my rapporteur's responsibility. It turns out that the Norwegian Polar Institute received a significant comment in 2015 by a weak compliance with the eManagement Regulation, a regulation that came on 25 June 2004. The Polar Institute ‘has not established a satisfactory information security management system’ in accordance with this Regulation, i.e. the eManagement Regulation, and it is critical. It is particularly critical that there is an old regulation that should have been transposed many years ago, also taking into account that the growing interest in the northern regions that have been shown from a number of countries has led to a challenging situation. Neither the Ministry nor the Polar Institute has recognized the vulnerability of the system and thus the possibilities for the transparency of strangers. The system must be in place as soon as possible, as the Committee unanimously says. Finally, two of the seven main findings of the Riksrevision relate to carriage. One is varying control over the quality of the road network, and the other, which I want to address, is the lack of follow-up of domestic helicopter safety. Air traffic control is central here. There has been a low number of operational supervision in 2015. There has been a wide-ranging exchange of letters with the Committee on the cause and it is quite reasonable to state that both the appropriations and the priorities of the Air Safety Authority have led to this. When the weakness has been pointed out, this has led to much more supervision being carried out in 2016. Finally, I would like to say that practical supervision must be given priority. The risk of failing safety work must be increased through physical supervision where supervision is in place where the case is decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3047	I agree with the thorough and good review of the comments made by the Committee on Document 1 and other speakers who have gone deeper into different fields. I just wanted to link two comments or reflections to this document and our comments. The first is that those who make Norway as a country where there is only sour and root in bureaucracy, faceless bureaucrats and I don't know what, can hardly have read Documents 1 from the National Audit Office, something very few of them have done. In fact, there is a document that tells of an administration that works very well in most areas in Norway. It's all right in the economy and in the accounting systems. There is very good management in most areas. Errors in important areas are followed up and fixed. Norway is simply a quite well-driving country. But there is also a range of areas that can be improved in each review from the National Audit Office in Document 1. Not least what many speakers have been in, some areas where there are recurring errors and are missing. In particular, I would like to say – when you take a height to see how the ministry answers: I think that a few pictures should be taken, you also have to study how the departments themselves have responded and entered the criticism. It could be, for example, missing shades. One has to consider the fact that some of the problems are complex, for example. ICT and security, with which it takes time to fix and do something. However, it is clear that there are some areas where there are major challenges over time and where it should be possible for the political system to jointly deal with what is being done better than what is being done today. I just want to briefly mention two such areas. The first is that on the question of preparedness and object protection, for which both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Defence are again criticised, it should be possible to get a better solution or an improvement in the years to come. This is almost always a well-known problem. The common challenges are known. The cooperation situation is that. I imagine that it should be a possible theme to get on. The other area is what most people have been up here. It is the State of Labour and Welfare, which, of course, has wide-ranging criticism in a range of areas. It's a facility that has very big challenges. He's incredibly complex to drive. But I think there must be a basis for saying that there can be extensive improvements on the point. I have to say that specifically on one point, the payment of a child contribution, I fully share the statements of the representative, and I believe it is important that we take it clearly and clearly now. I am aware that when the Riksrevision examines the department, it is not always the most popular exercise in the ministry. Sometimes it is also perceived that they have not fully understood or taken on board the challenges in a department. For this reason, I may have thought that precisely where there are challenges over time, where it has been possible to answer, and where recurring challenges have been documented, it should be possible in common – without there being a political criticism of individuals – to get ahead with the problems identified.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3064	‘In the opinion of the National Audit Office, there is a likelihood that neither the police nor the Defense, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection of essential objects when a threat situation so warrants.’ This is a quote from the Document 1 report. It worries me, and it surprises me. As the National Audit Office writes, Stortinget expects better cooperation between the police and the defense after the terrorist incidents on 22 July 2011. The size worked thoroughly and conscientiously both to find the reason why things could go so terribly wrong, and – most importantly – to secure the country so that it is as safe as free. The Control Committee, in which I myself was sitting then, held a number of hearings, and the then head of the Control Committee and the current Minister of Justice, Anders Anundsen, said: ‘What I miss is someone who stands in it and says ‘I take responsibility’. It is almost impossible to find the sense of responsibility that I believe leadership implies – a shifting responsibility either up, down or down – and that is very much in line with what you have concluded and written in your report." Here he refers to the Gørv report. It was like a follow-up to it that instructions were introduced on the protection and protection of objects by the use of defence and police forces in peace, crisis and war. The Court of Auditors has examined in this report whether it has been followed. It doesn't look like that. They find that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have failed to strengthen and improve cooperation between police and defence, as required by the instructions, and as foreseen and expected by the Storting. The two departments have also failed to ensure that the Directorate of Police and Defence have established a permanent basic security for their own protective features according to the requirements of both the Safety Act and the Object Safety Regulation. The National Audit Office also notes that the work on permanent security measures on the premises of the Ministry has been delayed and still not completed by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. It is only to be noted that the Office's anti-terrorism and sabotage facilities are still not in place permanently, despite the fact that the Innst Control Committee. 169 S for 2015-2016 underlined that the Committee found it ‘very serious’ that the permanent basic protection requirements of the Feature Safety Regulation were not met. In their final comments, the Riksrevision, after the State Councils have expressed their opinion, states that ‘they note that the Council of State does not provide a proper explanation of the reasons why work on object protection and basic protection has not been given the necessary priority’. We need that answer, and that is why we are holding a hearing in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3093	First, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee for a thorough introduction to the Committee's comments on Document 1 and to which I agree. As rapporteur for the sections 2.5 and 2.16 of the vote, which relate to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs respectively, I start with the Ministry of Defence. I am referring to the fact that the defense, like the police, has received significant comments for weaknesses related to the basic protection of its own protective features and the use of security forces to secure and protect designated properties when the situation requires it. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision takes a very serious view that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have not provided for strengthening and improving cooperation in this area, such as both the instructions on the protection and protection of objects through the use of defence and police forces and provided for by the Stortinget in the wake of the terrorist incidents on 22 July 2011. The Committee has decided to examine the report on weaknesses in the defence and police protection of vulnerable objects in a separate position, which will be released to Stortinget at a later date. The Committee refers to the establishment of a separate establishment called Defence Material. The ETA shall manage material investments and material management in the defence sector. Defence equipment has been granted a number of exemptions from the Financial Regulation in order to keep up-to-date its own autonomous annual accounts. The Committee expects the Financial Regulation to be complied with as from the financial year 2016. The Committee would also point out that the compliance audit carried out on the disposal of military material will be included in the Riksrevision's report on the sale process of two F-5 fighter aircraft, which the Stortinget asked the Riksrevision to carry out earlier this year. So, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: The Committee refers to the fact that ‘in the last five years neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the companies concerned have received significant comments’ in relation to the accounting commitment. The same description was made last year, so that the period of notice given to the Ministry and to the underlying establishments extends beyond five years. The Committee considers this to be extremely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3112	I said in my first post that Document 1 is a very important document, which gives us a very good overview of what has happened. The National Audit Office is working seriously on this over a year in order to present matters as correctly and objectively as possible to the Stortinget. So, as everyone knows, there's a very comprehensive discussion of the matter in the committee. The Committee is responsible for all aspects of Document 1 and adopts opinions, sometimes in line with what the Riksrevision believes, sometimes with alternative opinions, and, as has been achieved in this debate, has also taken steps to promote an entirely concrete proposal to ask the government to resolve an acute problem related to the children of Norway. I don't know how to interpret it, but if nothing happens now, while I'm talking, none of the state councils will participate in the exchange with the Storting about these important fields. That's what I'm describing as very eye-catching. It would be nice if more of them now asked for the word and gave their favour with it. – I think the Minister of Labour asked for the floor now; I thought I saw it. That will be good in case, because then we can hear her views on the things that are taken up related to her department. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has every reason just to be satisfied and should go up and support the committee, I think. It wouldn't have been so stupid, to say it a little popular. But most remarkable is, of course, that the Minister of Defence was present, but found reason to go. And, at least until now, the Minister of Justice has been sitting quietly in his place. I'm not sure how to interpret it as the committee's chairman. Either he doesn't want to defend himself, it's possible, or he agrees with the committee – it may also be possible. I assume that there is no indication of arrogance when the field for which he is responsible – and he has been in charge for several years – is subjected to such clear and serious criticisms that have arisen in the work of the National Audit Office and in the position of the Committee. And I repeat, it's a unanimous setting. Now it's the right way, and I'll tell the Council of State, Anundsen's defense, that there's going to be an open hearing. But the part of Document 1 that is open, of course, is not something we can go by when we discuss this. I will follow what may be said by the Councils after this article has been made. But I thought it was necessary to say that, as the government representatives until now kept this post, had no need to say anything about what was included in Document 1 and that was carried out by the Enlarged Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. It could be an expression that this government is getting very tired – and I understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3130	The results of the annual review of the Ministry of Labour’s budget and the Ministry’s underlying activities are largely satisfactory. There are also no comments from most businesses. With regard to the Employment and Welfare Act's accounts, there were no significant defects or errors this year, and I am very pleased about that. That hasn't been the reality before. However, some defects and defects have been found, which have also been found in several of these rooms now. Several of the deficiencies and errors that have been identified are also good processes for. I'm glad. In the case of malpayments, several of which have been received, a targeted and systematic effort to reduce that amount is undoubtedly important. Of course, it's about trust in our entire welfare system that you discover and collect amounts that have been wrongly paid. There have been significant developments in recent years. From 2006 until 2015, there is a five-fold increase both in what has been revealed and in what has been collected. There's still a way to go, but there are good processes. In the case of children’s contributions, several of which have been received, it is a very important topic. It is clear that many children do not get the amount they should have. As the representative Tetzschner made his statement, it is initially the responsibility of the contributors to make sure that they pay what they have to pay to their children, and then the state goes in and shoots when the contributor fails to pay. ==References== 95 pst. shall receive the amount due, in whole or in part. So most people get, but we see that there's someone who doesn't get what they're going to get. The budget uses mainly the means available to it, but it is not all the amounts that are as simple to charge, as I have also stated in my written reply to the committee. We are now going to see if there are other and more tools that can be put in place, whether there is a need for changes that will make it easier to deploy more funds, including: lack of sufficient means of raising children’s contributions from self-employed workers. That's part of what we're going to look at, of course. But I can assure the Committee and the Storting that we will follow up on the comments that have been made. We also have to report back to Stortinget in an appropriate way how it should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3141	I expect the representative of Kolberg to be familiar with the term ‘the one who agrees’. But I'm glad the committee has now noticed that Bufetat has followed up the comments of the Riksrevision. Both the department and I are concerned that the training of foster parents should be for the benefit of children. Foster homes are the most commonly used option when the care situation is such that children can no longer live at home with their parents. It is then important that both the quality and stability of foster homes are good. One of the most important things we can do then is give good training and guidance to the foster home. It is also important to pay particular attention to recruiting adequate foster homes. The size has now adopted the foster home message, and we are in the process of following it. There is both guidance and follow-up of the individual foster home as part of the work. The National Audit Office has also observed that there are regional differences in the course of further training, and it is therefore important that Bufetat also assesses the need for further training for foster parents based on the local situation. Therefore, there will be differences, because, as also described in the National Audit Office’s report, there are different needs in each region for how many foster homes you need. It is also the case that Bufetat and we are now working to put in place a fully-fledged information security and internal control management system, and some of the errors revealed by the Riksrevision, are already corrected. I am concerned that Bufetat should have a high level of security in its information management, in particular in view of the level of sensitive information and also in particular the protection of sensitive information about children. At least we agree with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. There's something the department follows up. The others have been involved, who are making contributions: like Councillor Hauglie, I agree that this is a serious matter, and something the government is working on. It is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that is responsible for the system of child support and the collection of child contributions and, as the Council of State was also involved, it is followed up. With regard to the contribution from Lundtigen, which addresses poverty, I would like to stress that for children living in low-income families, the work is to prevent poverty from inheriting, and to ensure that children living in low-income families receive the help and follow-up they will have, priority for the government. It is a strategy of 64 measures promoted by the government in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. It is strengthening in several areas, both lower kindergarten rates and free core time in kindergarten. It is a national grant scheme currently at a record 198 million. kr, which shall also include and provide access to leisure and holiday services, which are important for children living in low-income families.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3154	It was a little wonder to hear the indignantness in the committee chairman's last post. I think it is necessary to remind the chairman of the committee, as he himself did from the pulpit several times, that the matter which primarily concerns the use of security forces in order to protect objects in cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and Justice and Defence, is the subject of his own consultation within the committee, and I have taken the view that the committee wants a thorough examination and handling of the matter in committee hearing. I think it would be amazing if I would explain well the question from Stortingen's pulpit when one knows that in January there was a separate hearing on that issue. I assume that we will then come back to both the whole of the critical remarks from the Riksaudition and to the details. I would like to make some comments relating to one of the elements reflected in Document 1 for 2016-2017, but which are also, and many have been involved, linked to the cooperation between defence and police, because there is a kind of impression that that cooperation is going to suffer from serious cooperation problems. It does not entirely agree with the opinion of the defense and the police themselves. If a question to the Chief of Defense and to the Chief of Police about the cooperation between the Defense and the Police is good, both will answer yes, that's it. If a question to the head of FOH and to the head of the preparedness forces is good, they'll answer yes, that's it. If you talk to the operators, they'll answer the same thing. This does not mean, of course, that there are no differences between police and defence – it will be, it has always been, and I think it will always be, among other things. related to the use of different inputs in critical events and priorities of such events, and in a number of other areas where there will still be discussions, but I think it is important at the same time to take inward that there are discussions, in fact, can also be positive. Through discussions and high ceilings, it is possible to contribute to finding good solutions to practical problems. Although there will still be some challenges between police and defence in border areas, as we have also seen in several public investigations in the past, I do not think we should assume that there is a fundamental lack of cooperation between defence and police. I simply believe that this would be completely wrong. But I'm absolutely sure we'll come back to it more thoroughly in the hearing. It is very unfortunate that we are in a situation where one has not secured the objects to be secured, with its own strengths in a good enough way. The failure is that there is a lack of a plan for the implementation of such fuses with fuses. It is an instruction adopted in 2012 and, as the Committee is aware, it was followed up by the Ministry in 2013 and reported at the end of 2014. In this way, it is very good that the Riksrevision has found out through this study that the fuse has not yet been in place. It is the intention of the National Audit Office to review and examine whether it has been delivered according to expectations. In the case of permanent insurance measures, there has been a discussion over time. I think we'll take it more thoroughly in the hearing, there's limits to what I can say about exactly those questions. However, I would like to refer specifically to the Social Security Communication ‘Communication on Social Security — Risk in a Secure Society’, which was recently handed over to the Stortinget, where the government reports on all the actions promoted in the previous Communication on Social Security in 2012 on the actions that have been dealt with in the Special Committee since 22 July 2011, including the setting up of the Control and Constitutional Committee, and the Action Points of the Gjørv Commission. It has been reported in a way that I believe we have not seen reported to the Stortinget before, and I assume that the Committee also has this in mind in the work to be done in the preparation of the committee hearing on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3169	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3185	As the President just said, the Storting will now deal with Document 3:1 on the follow-up of administrative audits by the National Audit Office, which has been dealt with by the Stortinget, as we do every year. Document No 3:1 usually receives little attention, despite the fact that it is in this document that we get the answer as to whether the administration takes the Riksrevision and the Storting seriously. Because when the Riksaudition follows up the administrative audits that have been carried out after three years, it is to examine whether the findings, recommendations and the Storting’s instructions have actually been followed up so that major and minor errors in our large and complex welfare state are corrected. I'm glad that's the case with most of the cases. We can now assume that the administration itself has wanted to correct errors, and that they do. I want to add that Document 3:1 once again shows us how important the work of the National Audit Office is. For it is more or less pointless to adopt laws and regulations if they are not put into practice. And it's just as pointless to deal with the Riksrevision reports without knowing that they're being followed up by them. The national audit will take three years before the cases are followed up. In other words, it gives good time. If no necessary changes have been made after three years, the matter is followed up again the following year. This year's Document 3:1, for 2016-2017, mentions the follow-up to 16 administrative audits. 14 of the cases are closed. The following two cases are Document 3:9 for 2011–2012, on the management of the aquaculture sector, and Document 3:11 for 2012–2013, on the verification of VAT by tax authorities. Document 3:13 for 2011-2012, on the development and renewal of the railway infrastructure, is not mentioned, but is followed up by two separate administrative audits, see above. Document 3:10 for 2015–2016, on the effectiveness of the maintenance of the railway network, which was delivered to Stortinget in March 2016, cf. Inner. 47 S for 2016-2017 and a study on the impact of railway investment, which is planned to be delivered to the Stortinget in 2017. There is a unanimous committee behind the vote. Therefore, I am not going to go into each of the 14 cases that have been closed, but I should like to make a brief reference to the fact that there are some major and significant issues for the population that have been dealt with among these 14 cases: the police's handling of profit crime, how the renewal of ICT in the police's case has a major impact on the results of the police, how child protection ensures that the children who need it are adequately assisted, and that various bodies are working together to provide them with it, whether the Nav reform is working properly, and whether young people who are trained in the company are actually receiving training of sufficient quality – all of which concerns thousands of people in our country. But then there are also more prosaic issues, but which are just as important – issues that are about whether we spend the money we have, in a correct and good way: building in the knowledge sector is not and will not be due, but that rent that can also cover maintenance is required, that tolls are collected in the best possible and cheapest possible way – or toll management, as it is also called – to name two. And a very important issue: whether the municipalities have an overview and control of the services available. We are also very pleased that the reindeer management system is finally in order after the Riksrevision has for years pointed out that there is no agreement between grazing facilities and the number of animals. As I said at the outset, there are two things that will be followed further by the National Audit Office. It is the control of value added tax by the management of the farm and the control by the tax authorities. The National Audit Office’s survey on aquaculture management was sent to Stortinget in March 2012. The Committee had a hearing on the matter in December of the same year, and the case was examined in the Grand Duchy in March 2013. In its recommendation, the Committee referred to a number of serious aspects of the management of the marine environment that the Riksrevision had revealed and was behind the recommendations of the Riksrevision. The Committee’s main concern was that the Ministry of Fisheries had to ensure a comprehensive and transparent management of the industry, including: losses due to disease and the extent of escape were significantly reduced. We thought that there was a need for better instruments and sanctions in the supervisory work, and that supervision had to give better preventive effect, and that the industry, on its part, should take responsibility according to the polluter-pays principle. The Committee felt that research, especially on vaccines, had to be intensified so that the problem of salmon in particular could not be resolved. In January 2016, the National Audit Office asked the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries to explain the status and measures taken to follow up the Riksrevision and the comments made by the Committee. In its response, the Ministry emphasises that salmonmus and the escape of farmed fish are the two main challenges for the aquaculture industry. In March 2015, the Government presented a Communication to the Stortinget – ‘Predictable and environmentally sustainable growth in Norwegian salmon and trout tops’. In its examination of this request, the Government presented final proposals for production areas, an emission model for each operator's permissible environmental impact, an action plan on resistance to lubricants, and a strategy on the escape of farmed fish. The Ministry suggests that the implementation of these measures will contribute positively to the development of a forward-looking aquaculture industry. The National Auditor says it notices it. At the same time, the Riksrevision characterises the situation in industry as serious in several areas. These include salmonnus, increased consumption of medicinal products and genetic impact of wild salmon, to mention one of the most important things. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, farming is facing major challenges, and although the ministry is dealing with a number of measures, it is too early to say anything about the impact. On this basis, the national audit will follow the case further. Following its examination, the Committee has agreed that the Riksrevision should do so, and therefore agrees. This is a very important matter for Norway — everyone understands it — as the aquaculture industry is today, and what it really means for our coastal areas in particular. The second case will follow further, is the study of the tax authorities' verification of VAT, which was sent to Stortinget in June 2013. The aim of the study was to assess how the control work contributes to the achievement of the Storting's objective of the correct determination of value added tax. The National Audit Office found several weaknesses and improvement points in the verification of VAT and recommended the Ministry of Finance and underlying agencies to consider taking action to improve the interaction between the tax rate and the customs duty rate in the control work. Furthermore, they recommended that the Ministry of Finance should take action to ensure non-discrimination in the use of additional charges, that the tax rate and the customs duty rate should take action to improve the selection of charging tasks and declarations, as well as measures to measure the impact of information work. The national audit recommended that the tax rate should consider strengthening the control of the VAT register while ensuring a more uniform control when registering the taxable person. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee joined the recommendations of the National Audit Office and indicated that the VAT system is based on trust between authorities and industry and must therefore be subject to appropriate and good control. The Committee stressed the seriousness of the non-compliance with the requirement of non-discrimination and was therefore pleased that the Ministry of Finance would follow this up. In April 2016, the National Audit Office asked the Ministry of Finance to explain the measures taken to follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office and the comments of the Committee. The Ministry has explained in all areas, and the National Audit Office notes that a number of measures have been taken to follow up the recommendations made, as well as the Committee's comments. However, there are still areas that can be improved. The National Audit Board notes that the liability for VAT on importation will be transferred to the tax rate from 1 January 2017. An important premise for the change is an increase in the exchange of information between the tax rate and the tax rate, which will strengthen control in the area of VAT in general. Although positive developments are well under way in relation to the weaknesses identified, the Riksrevision considers that it remains to be seen whether the objective of enhanced control in the VAT area will generally be achieved. The national audit will therefore follow the case further, and the committee will agree to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3223	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3239	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has reviewed the minutes of the Government for the first half of 2016. It is a constitutional task within the meaning of the Basic Law § 75 f, and according to the first paragraph of Section 14-9 of the Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure, it is the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that is to review the protocols and give its opinion to the Stortinget. I just want to briefly link some comments to the unanimous setting. Nor does the Committee at this time have any comment on the minutes. The Committee has noted that there have been no dissidents in the government from 1 January to 30 June 2016. The cases of acknowledgment during the period in question have also not received any comments from the Committee. The departments shall transmit, on a routine basis, expanded lists of candidates, providing information on all applicants, including those who have received their name except for publication. The Committee has no comments on the appointment of office during the period. Regulations laid down, amended or repealed by the King of State Councils form part of the six-monthly review of the Committee. At this stage, the Committee has not found a basis for asking the Investigation Section of the EEAS to review selected regulations and has no comments on the regulations laid down, amended or repealed in the first half of 2016. In summary, the Committee has nothing to say, and I present to the Stortinget with the unanimous vote of this Committee on the review of the State Council Protocols from 1 January to 30 June 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3254	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3270	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3288	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Torgeir Micaelsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2–17, from Torgeir Micaelsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 18, from Torgeir Micaelsen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 19 and 20, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 21-24, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 25 and 26, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop the process of transferring on paper the staff of the Department of Forensics from the Institute of Public Health to the OYS, and to save the tens of millions of this would lead to unnecessary red tape costs. If the government wants such a change to be implemented, it must be calculated and investigated in cooperation with the relevant professional environment.» The Central Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3328	There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to freeze any proposal for the closure of the therapy pool until the responsibility for the pools has been clarified and full alternatives are in place.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3347	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government how best to organise research at the Norwegian Health Archives.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3366	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the exploitation of the competences of Norwegian health archives and to ensure synergies against the management and development of healthcare ICT systems.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3385	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21 and 22, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to introduce abstinences in physiotherapy, to maintain the diagnostic list for free physiotherapy and to promote new proposals in cooperation with user organisations, and to promote a case to the Storting.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote a concrete, funded action plan to step up the rehabilitation and rehabilitation offer in Norway in the context of the revised national budget.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3410	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to properly promote the follow-up to the Cooperation Reform with a particular focus on action to strengthen interaction, improve the provision of drug and psychiatry patients in the municipalities and improve the system of immediate aid services.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3429	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to work to restore the operation of ICT infrastructure in Health South-East to its own hands and to bring proceedings before the Stortinget to ensure that basic ICT infrastructure in Norwegian health care is not outsourced’. The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3448	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to give priority to building up an offer of relief for the elderly, so that good action can be taken more quickly.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3467	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 6-17, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to postpone the establishment of a central service centre for the administrative services of the health and care administration under the direction of Norsk Healthnet SF until all aspects of such establishment have been thoroughly investigated.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that hospitals in the four municipalities of Nord-Troms: Nordreisa, Skjervøy, Kåfjord and Kvänangen continue from 1 January 2017, on the basis of a model that the municipalities consider fit for purpose and at the same time provide the best services to the population of the region.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests that an electronic registration tool for recording the use of coercion in psychiatry be made available to the health establishments concerned by the end of 2017.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether, within the granted framework, the State will increase the percentage of the wage costs of continuing training for community nurses, in order to enhance the competence of health care and care services in as many municipalities as possible throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of day-care facilities for dementes, so that good measures can be put in place more quickly’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the investment grant to the nursing homes and nursing homes of the lucky day treats new buildings and upgrades and modernisation of existing building masses.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to close the State funding of municipal care for the elderly and to ensure that the saved administrative costs can go to various good measures for the elderly.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to bring the Storting forward a plan of measures to ensure sound health services in Norwegian prisons.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to reintroduce reporting obligations on the funds allocated to the ‘Cultural Walk’.’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget to come back with an adjusted proposal for reimbursement for dental treatment to care for patients with high needs and poor advice.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a comprehensive review of the consequences of any change to the grant scheme to the centres for the future strengthening of primary health research and the mandate of the centres.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the suspension of the proposed changes to the exemption 2 and the re-evaluation by the Government of the self-employed with proposals for better and more effective protection arrangements in the context of the revised national budget.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a comprehensive report on the follow-up to NOU 2015: 17 First of all, with special emphasis on how to maintain the whole of the emergency chain and strengthen medical care.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3548	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3– 5, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals to investigate different funding models for antibiotics in Norway, in addition to the de-linking model, at the latest in the revised national budget.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to maintain the contribution to the Klara Klock telephone and network service and, where appropriate, to add a more comprehensive youth online service to the already existing good environment built up in Bodø.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reduce the input-driven funding in hospitals to 40 pst.’ [[ISF]] The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e3577	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit in an appropriate manner a national action plan for a good geographical distribution and better recruitment of doctors to district municipalities and areas with low recruitment.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e6495	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have announced that they will now subsidize II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e8281	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Marit Nybakk on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the phase out of fossil warming in all defence buildings by 2018.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e8309	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government requests the removal of 1 pst. of GNI for assistance in the annual budgets.’.» The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e9927	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e12112	It shall be counted first over VII and IX. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e12126	It is then voted over other Roman numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e13040	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2016 State budget makes the following changes:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e13559	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out external quality assurance of P-8A Poseidon prior to the promotion of the investment project for Stortinget, in line with the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance.’ [[KS1 and KS2]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e13580	There is a vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return with an investment proposition for the project ‘Renewal of MPA and ISR capacity’ during 2017, assessing different alternatives in addition to P-8A Poseidon.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e15180	It's only said I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e15190	So it goes over III. The Christian People's Party has announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e15225	It's going to go over I first.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e15235	It is then added over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e15331	Case No. 10 concerns the handling of a third legislative action and concerns legislative decision 33 with the adopted statement at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 16 December 2016. [[2016-2017]] That is why we are voting on the draft law with the adopted statement from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e15341	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-19.ana.ud80e15356	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
