ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e26	The representatives of Freddy de Ruiter, Sverre Myrli and Kjell-Idar Juvik, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e43	The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e46	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Ketil Kjeseth and myself on microplastics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e51	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e54	On behalf of the representatives of Line Henriette Hemdal, Olaug V. Bollestad, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself, I am delighted to propose a short sea shipping strategy to strengthen the framework conditions of short sea shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e59	The representative, Anders Tyvand, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e62	On behalf of the representatives of Olaug V. Bollestad, Hans Fredrik Grövan, Line Henriette Hämdal and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to introduce the project ‘School Mastering in Life’ to the school’s youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e68	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e71	On behalf of the representatives of Karin Andersen, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I will promote a proposal for a representative on measures for decent working life and against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e76	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e79	On behalf of the representatives Siv Elin Hansen, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and myself, I am delighted to present proposals on the consequences for Norwegian oil policy of the climate agreement in Paris.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e84	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e87	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on an international convention to reduce emissions, resource use, pollution and environmental damage from plastics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e92	The representative, Siv Elin Hansen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e95	On behalf of Kirsti Bergstø, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on the follow-up to the Paris climate agreement towards 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e100	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e112	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Bent Höie, Tord Lien and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Torgeir Micaelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e119	I have a question for Minister of Health and Care Bent Höie. In the fall many people followed the series cabinets of Petter Nyquist that are located in Oslo. There was once again an unpleasant side to Norwegian drug addiction. People who live without housing, on the street, with too little food and heat, have, as a general rule, that they bake with a drug addiction that is stronger than most. The common denominator is that many times they have tried treatment, been in and out of treatment, but are unable to follow up on the acute treatment in life that follows. Fortunately, many people are helping this group in the street, but I believe that now we politicians too need to get up to a step in this debate. Last week, new overdose rates for Norway occurred. They're gloomy. They increased by 16 pst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the In 2014, 266 druginduced deaths occurred in Norway — 218 were overdoses. Studies from Oslo show that very many of those who die have been in contact with the auxiliary equipment, and they have had contact with the auxiliary service. That's why the big question is whether we're going to get a step further, from the fact that different parties in the Stortinget are competing for how many drug treatment sites we can adopt here on the Stortinget, to the transition to knowledge-based, prevention measures that we know will prevent death. The Health Minister has put forward several proposals on this subject, unfortunately the common denominator is that there is little good news, that it is covered by various ideological convictions in order not to do enough, and then the question is: Will the Minister of Health re-offer new, concrete knowledge-based proposals to prevent overdoses in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e132	I fully agree that the series that went on TV 2 showed the social inequality that drug addiction and mental health challenges represent in Norway. People with drug dependence and mental health challenges over time have an expected life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than the rest of the population. It is therefore the greatest social inequality among us – neighbours, friends, family, colleagues, who have an expected life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than those who do not have a drug addiction or a mental health challenge. This is also the background to the fact that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been so clear that this is an area to be built up systematically. And what we see – it also shows the representative’s question – is that this is a complex and complex issue on which there are no easy solutions. In other words, I fully agree that this is about manning up and doing the heavy job of giving priority to all the larger and smaller measures in this area that improve the situation of drug addicts. And it's not just about treatment, although treatment is also important, it's not least about early intervention, it's about providing health care to those who are addicts, it's about providing housing after treatment combined with work and activity. Very much of this will be done under the direction of the municipalities and under the direction of Nav. It is also about providing treatment instead of punishment. All of this will be found by the representative in the escalation plan for the drug field that Stortinget now has for treatment, a historic escalation where we will spend 2.4 billion. kr more in the next five years to raise the whole of this group’s offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e139	The means of this escalation plan, $2.4 billion. kr over five years, shall be lubricated thinly, not ringed and is part of many measures that already have funding, so it is not very impressive. I agree that this is a complicated question, but what I think is incredible is that we now have a government that with open eyes says no to that heavily addicted people like, for example. Depending on heroin, it may be offered to smoke heroin in user rooms, injection rooms. We know it prevents death. They say, on an ideological basis, that after a clinical assessment, doctors can offer heroin-assisted treatment, which we know will help save lives, and are instead very concerned about boasting of a plan that very few have so far taken the wave for. We are prepared to strengthen the plan in Stortinget and cooperate with the government about it, but then it would have been very nice if the Council of State could now get up and do something with the knowledge-based proposals, which are actually on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e144	The description given by a provider of the escalating plan for the drug field is wrong. Firstly, a non-thinly lubricating person has chosen the areas that, not least the addicts themselves in the meetings we have had with them in the work on the plan, have pointed out as the main challenges. It is also the challenges that emerge most clearly from the user plan survey, which now includes so many municipalities that we actually know something — knowledge-based — about the situation of those who are addicted to drugs in Norway today. The main thing is that there is a lack of follow-up after treatment in terms of housing, work and activity. That is therefore the main priority in the plan. The second main defect is early follow-up. This is why we follow up – as opposed to the previous government – the report of the Stoltenberg Committee on the establishment of reception centres in several municipalities, among others. to provide training in smoking heroin instead of injecting heroin.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e149	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ruth Grung.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e152	It's probably the two biggest cities that have the biggest challenges, and in Bergen you've been able to capture all of those that per day benefit from methadone and Subutex, i.e. low-treatment. Nevertheless, about half of the heavy drug users on amphetamines and other drugs are not caught. We've been visiting Dr. Sverre from 24/7, and he asks, why don't all those drug addicts get full patient rights by using the entire sample in the Common Catalogue? Because it is only when they get cancer or other diagnosis that they can get it. Why not lift them up and use the knowledge we already have, and treat them with the most basic rights – and then in parallel, of course, give them housing? I also have a question about that. One relates to patient rights, and the other relates to housing. The municipality of Bergen was stopped and did not receive the house banking support as they wanted to create larger housing units.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e159	Firstly, drug addicts today have full patient rights under the Patient Rights Act. It was a change that was made the last time the Right was put in government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, and was a crucial legal step. Before that, drug addicts came under the Social Services Act — they were not viewed as patients. That was the legal change. The actual content of the right was about actually giving the offer. That is the priority of treatment that this government has re-established. At present, addicts may choose between 156 treatment sites, several of which have one week waiting time. At the same time, there are major shortcomings in the municipalities. That's what the escalating plan for the drug field is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e164	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e167	Now we're talking about the group of patients that might have the most weight in every way. The Christian People's Party is proud that we were part of a budgetary settlement that also provided an opportunity for the expansion of the street hospitals in Oslo and not least in Bergen. It is a hospital that takes care of both the body and the soul of those who are addicted to drugs and who have not received the help they need in public health. The street hospitals provide services that are complex and are built on competence and quality. Nevertheless, many die on the streets, not only of overdoses, but also of somatic disorders that they have. What will the Council of State do to ensure that more cities are offered as Gatehospitals – not for the cities, but for the drug addicts, who often attract cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e175	We will do that by following the escalation plan that we have agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Left, where in 2016 we now grant over half a billion dollars as a start to the escalation plan for the first year, and where a substantial part of this goes to this kind of offer in the municipalities – and then this is also a very reinforced signal from the Stortinget to the establishment of the gate hospital. It is quite right that it is also important to provide a good lowthreshold provision to people who are in a situation where one is in a rush and where one has major somatic health challenges. When I talk about the difference in life expectancy for addicts compared to the rest of the population, it's very much about one having other common somatic diseases that are overlooked and not treated – just because one encounters addicts only sees the intoxication and not the whole human being. It's just the change that's in this escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e182	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e185	Medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR, is a multi-disciplinary specialised treatment for opioid dependence, in which the use of addictive medicinal products at a given dose is to be included as part of a holistic rehabilitation. Thus, the individual should be given a holistic rehabilitation treatment that adapts his or her situation. According to the Official Journal of Bergen on 13 January 2015, 34 children were born in Norway with withdrawals, by mothers in LAR treatment. Children are treated by sucking syringes with maternal drops 4–6 times a day. Most of the pregnancies in LAR are not planned. The children’s care centre and the pediatric unit believe that LAR treatment must be combined with long-term prevention, for example. spiral. Long-term prevention is expensive. Women in the LAR must search the municipality for ownership, even if this is a government offer. The question is: will the Council of State change the legislation so that the women in LAR automatically escape the element of long-term prevention?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e194	There is a very important question for the representative here – how we help women in the LAR to plan their pregnancy better, prepare for it and avoid harm to the child. At the same time, it is also important that we do not establish systems that mean that women do not seek treatment or quit treatment when they are pregnant, because it can have much greater negative consequences for both the woman and not least for the child and its future life. But I fully agree that although today there is a very clear guideline that women in the LAR should be offered prevention, today's legislation is slightly different and is being practiced differently. In my answer to the question the representative has in the ordinary Question Time, I am going to answer that I am going to give the Health Directorate a mandate to clarify this in such a way that we are cleared up the uncertainty in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e201	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e204	In fact, every year in Norway, a plane crashes fully loaded with heroin/opioid users. About 260 people die from an overdose. In most deaths, opiates are involved. We had not accepted this in any other area of society in Norway. We have a zero vision for traffic fatalities. In 2015, the number was down to 125, and the number goes down. This is a strange phenomenon. Other countries do this better than Norway. That's a lot of tools. We agree on an escalation plan, on volume and on money, but we also put a lot of money into a system that we know has some challenges. We also have some ideological discussions – on which the representative, Ms Micasen, was involved – related to treatment methods. Will the Council of State take the initiative of a failure commission for the drug sector in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e213	I do not believe that the drug industry in Norway has fallen victim to disaster. What I mean is that it hasn't been given the priority that the area had earned over a long time. That's exactly why we're now building up the offers that we know work. In terms of number of overdoses, there is a major social problem. This is one of the reasons why we have developed a national overdose strategy that contains a number of new instruments, which have now been effective for a few years, precisely to reduce the number of overdose deaths. Of the 266 overdose deaths reported in 2014, 67 were due to heroin overdose. This is a very big and complex problem. We have introduced e.g. this by equipping addicts with nasal spray so that they themselves can perform lifesaving treatment. We have launched a SWITCH campaign to teach injecting heroinists to smoke heroin instead of injecting syringes, and we are expanding offers in cooperation with the seven municipalities with the highest overdose rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e222	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e225	In the spray room in Oslo, there is a room that I think should have been named the "Bent Höie Room". So it's the most expensive telephone booth in the country: the State Council's own party traps in the previous Oslo City Council spent 250,000 dollars building a smoking room for heroin smoking, which the State Council stopped. There is today instead an opportunity to call on a telephone that says there. When the Council of State boasts that he is now betting on teaching heroin addicts to smoke instead of injecting, he himself created the situation in a public place for the users in Oslo that, after first being told that smoking is trickier, the same public authorities are told that you are only allowed to inject, not to smoke. It's absurd. It's high time the Council of State was thinking about something new. Here we have ideology control instead of medical-professional method management. Will the Council of State still not think about allowing smoking rooms?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e234	In this discussion, the working party and the SV have a long tradition of offering drug addicts: it is – whenever the situation comes up in the public discussion – to have a strong commitment to very narrow measures that will make no difference. But the heavy job, the real job, what's really about manning up, being willing to prioritize – economically and politically – to expand the overall offer to addicts, never has the SV or the Workers' Party ever engaged in. It is also seen in the results of the policies they themselves conducted in the government. They provided a big message that had the name 'Look at me!' but was not really based on listening to the addicts' own wishes and needs. That's exactly what this government is doing, in collaboration with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We're gonna take the heavy job, we're gonna expand the whole deal. The injecting space in Oslo reaches a very small proportion of heroin addicts in Norway. [[The President clubs.]] The SWITCH campaign reaches most of the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e243	Then we're out of speaking time, and we're going to go on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e247	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. ‘Sick Perfect’ is a TV 2 programme that provides an insight into how some young girls in today’s Norway experience their everyday lives. Norwegian girls use less drugs than before, they get better school characters than before, but many experience a huge pressure on expectations in many different areas, an achievement hunt both at school and elsewhere, and more than before struggling with poor self-esteem and suffering mental distress. We can also read in the report of the Djupedal Committee that the pressure for many young people is too great. More children and young people are dissatisfied with the way they live their lives. More children than before are disappointed in themselves. Half of the girls feel that they are too worried, and in the last few days we have been able to read that the use of antidepressants among young girls has doubled in ten years. School is an important arena in the lives of children and young people. The school's purpose paragraph states, among other things: students need to develop knowledge, skills and attitudes to master their lives, but too many children and young people experience that they do not master their lives. Today, the Christian People's Party has put forward proposals to introduce a teaching system at the school's early stages, which we have called'skills in school'. This is not meant to be a new school but as a resource of competence according to the model of the cultural school bag, in line with the school's purpose paragraph, but at the same time detached from character pressure and performance hunt. My question is whether the Council of State believes there is a need to take action in Norwegian schools to strengthen the efforts to prevent mental illness among children and young people, and to increase the school's compliance with the objective of enabling students to master their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e258	If that's the case, and it's enough for some, that young girls believe that the only way to get value is to be seen in social media, think that they have to change their appearance to be worth something like humans, need to use large parts of their lives to satisfy others and satisfy a ideal of beauty that is partly built up under commercial forces, and partly built up under perhaps other fellow students as well, then it's not a disease sign primarily in school, but throughout our culture. I'm saying it first, because it's pretty important not to imagine that this has purely political solutions, if it's about advertising, commercial forces, visibility, and technology development. It is not least a cultural sign of disease if it is such that more and more girls are under it. That being said, there is also something we can do politically. I am willing to and believe that we should also look at, for example: Mental health, what the Christian People's Party calls vitality, is clearly in place in school today. It is important that the school, although not able to solve everything, helps young girls and young boys to master their lives, complex challenges, but not least that they are able to see through what can be hollow, commercial expressions, such as: builds up under beauty ideals. I want to add that it's also the way that an important part of mastering your life is to learn the things that are most important in school: knowledge. If you don't learn to read, write and calculate properly, don't learn to express yourself verbally, don't master the subjects, it's more difficult both to master your own life and to move on in the education process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e267	I agree with the Council of State that this is a challenge for our whole society and not just the school, but I think that the school still plays a crucial role in the prevention of these challenges. We may be able to do a lot with the school, with the skills objectives, with the curricula, to strengthen this work. But at the same time, the skills that a youth needs to master his or her life are not necessarily very easy to define as a goal of competence in a curriculum and put on a diploma. Maybe, when society changes, we have to venture to think again about school. Perhaps we also need to invite other professional skills into school to a greater extent than what we do today, in order to provide students with relevant education and skills, simply to deal with their everyday lives. In the cultural school bag, we invite professional cultural actors. Perhaps we can invite actors from other sectors into school to give relevant education to students. What does the Council of State think of such an approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e272	First of all, I think about the skills objectives at school that it is important that they are about the subject. However, professional and professional objectives can also be linked to issues, or should also be linked to issues in society, for example. public health or mental health. I believe that it is important not to reduce this to a problem that the school can do something about, although the school and other parts of the public also have a role to play. Not least, what the family does is important. What do adults do, what do we as role models, as authoritarians in society? Then I believe, as I said earlier – and of course I will look carefully at the Christian People's Party proposal – that there is also room for better public health work in the school. I will finally add that I think the cooperation parties Christian People's Party and the Left and the Government have a lot to be proud of here too, among others. the health sister vow now in progress, where both the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have prioritised several health sisters' positions in the school. It is precisely in view of the fact that it should not only be one day at a time among people focusing on public health and health, but that it should be available to all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e279	There will be some follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e282	My follow-up question goes to councillor Höie. Every five young people have reduced function due to mental distress such as anxiety/depression or behavioural problems. They don't master their lives, simply. Psychiatric problems in childhood and adolescents increase the risk of mental illness in adulthood. In the last 15 years, the release of antidepressants and anti-anxiety drugs for young people has increased by 57 pst, and the waiting time for access to mental health care is 53 days. Children and young people ask for something more than doctors — they ask for time to master their lives. What will the Council of State do to reduce the use of drugs and to increase assistance to children and young people in other ways, so that they can master their lives mentally?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e291	Let me be quite clear: drugs should never be the first choice in the treatment of children and young people with mental health challenges. There are also very clear professional guidelines for this. Unfortunately, you can see that it is used too often. I'm worried about that. I am also concerned that many children and young people can often get mental diagnosis in situations where they have quite normal reactions to an abnormal life situation. It's the home situation, it's bullying at school, where the environment around the child helps them to have quite normal reactions to a life situation that none of us had endured. They get a diagnosis instead of grasping what is the basic problem — the child’s situation at home or at school. That is why it is important to expand the school health service. That's why it's important, what we're doing now, that we get more psychologists out in the municipalities. 150 new annual works we have provided and earmarked funds for in 2016, so that what meets the child first is a different offer than medication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e296	Christian Thinning Bjørnø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e299	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The Labour Party has put forward proposals in this Chamber that knowledge of mental health needs to be brought into school to a greater extent, not as a subject of its own, but as a major part of the school's other subjects. It's about taking seriously the serious situation that representatives Bollestad and Tyvand point to. It's about fighting bullying, and it's about safe students learning more. When this subject was debated in an article in the Evening Post before Christmas, the Council of State replied: ‘School cannot solve all societal challenges’. I'm a little confused by this seance here today. What does the Council of State really mean? Does the State Council support the Workers' Party's proposal, which aims to ensure that all pupils are more competent and conscious of their mental health than they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e311	I mean, the school can't solve all of the societal problems. It would have been alarming if I had said the opposite. One of the problems in school today is that all good intentions require space in curricula and require space in school. It's at the expense of the school's core mission. Then I don't remember what I said to the evening post, but I've said several times in this room and elsewhere that I think it's room for and need to put mental health, public health – the Christian People's Party calls lifelong education – more clearly on the agenda of the Norwegian school. I believe that the government is doing well too – I mentioned the health sister work. It's a very important contribution to that. This can be found in the school’s skills goals today — in other words, children and young people will learn about mental health, lifelong learning, personal finances and that kind of thing. But in the follow-up to the Ludvigsen Committee, a review of the schools, it's also natural to see if we can strengthen that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e318	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e322	The center party is also concerned with mental health, and is concerned that there is nothing that we are going to do in single hours, or as a happening in school again and again. It is incredibly important to learn how to deal with adversity and grief, and that one is not quite perfect. It's part of living. Some people think that it's just getting together and moving on, but it's not like that for everyone. We think that physical and mental health is important and something that should be trained every day, and it is a responsibility for everyone, both for school and for us as parents. Then we can't have competence goals for all things – we can't have competence goals for what we achieve in mental health. But it's, as the Council of State said, part of the general curriculum, and we know that the general curriculum is changing. I wonder if the Council of State can guarantee that mastering one's own lives will still be an essential part of the new and more modern version of the general curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e327	I think I can guarantee that. The school has a dual social mission. It's education, but it's also education, and in education I'm adding that the school will also help to equip the children to cope with the future, to be independent, critical, to understand fundamental democratic values, to live up to those values, etc. It's all about being able to master your own life. When I've been busy also setting some limits on what the school is going to do, it's simply because the sum of all good intentions can be too big. This could mean that the school gets too many different demands to deal with. Then it's easy to forget what's at the heart of the school's societal mission, and that's the knowledge. And it's no good contribution to lifelong learning reaching 40 pst. by the students the grade 1 or 2 of the math exam in the 10th grade, or when over 40 pst. by students with a minority background reading below the critical grade in grade 8. It's going to be the bad lifesaver of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e332	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e335	We've got a class at school today called physical exercise. The body practice has been there for a long time, the education I think has also been there for a long time, and it has been quite the same for a long time. A lot of the subject is about everything that happens from the head down, and it's about lung capacity. But the body is more. The emotional register, mental training, is of little attention in this education and also in that subject at school. We have Norwegian sport, which is very good at mental training. It's a big part of the sportsman's training. In what subject can we implement the mental training and emotional register in the body? And what teachers can provide that education in future school?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e342	There's a little question about how to define mental training. If you think about mental health, what someone has called lifelong learning, elements of it are part of more subjects today. It's part of the natural sciences, for example. biology, it's part of food and health, it's also part of the physical exercise. But in connection with the follow-up that the government has by the Ludvigsen Committee, I believe it is all the reason – and we are going to come back to the Stortinget with it as well – to see how this can be placed more clearly, how we can ensure that mental health, lifelong learning, is brought forward more clearly, but of course as part of the subjects. It's important to stress that we can't characterize students' mental health, that's an absurd idea. But then it's also that all the subjects in the school are really about mental training. Breaking the reading code, solving a math piece that you haven't learned before, learning an English expression or an English sentence is also about mental training. In this way, this is something that the school is doing every day in every subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e349	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e352	I am pleased with the proposals of the Christian People's Party. The school professionals at the Change Factory, which the Council of State has certainly met, are also concerned with this issue and have made a suggestion about an hour on life in school. There's no room in today's organization of school days. I believe the Council of State is right when he says that we have to be very careful about how much we put into the framework with which today's school operates. That's why SV has opted for an extension of the school day, so there'll be a bigger room to build a whole school day around the teacher's teaching. I'm a little sorry that the Right and the Council of State so often create a contradiction between that kind of whole thinking and being concerned with learning. Because I'm absolutely sure – and this proposal reminds us of it – that creating a school where all kids are doing well is a prerequisite for learning. That's why I'm really wondering what the Council of State thinks about the Professors' proposal, about creating room for a discussion venue on life and mental health in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e359	I have met the Proffene and listened to the proposal. I agree with the intention, but I do not agree with the specific proposal. I don't think we should have a course of our own that's called lifelong education or that kind of course in school. There's several reasons for that. It's about teachers, it's about the responsibility of making that kind of closest therapeutic chat room in a classroom situation, and then also the starting point for most subjects in school is that they should have an assessment. It can be difficult in this kind of subject. But as I've answered several times, we work in cooperation with the Ministry of Health with mental health in school, lifelong learning in a broad sense, and in the follow-up to the Ludwigsen Committee, it's going to be one of the things. When it comes to full-time school, I think it's a bad idea, for several reasons. First of all, it costs a tremendous amount of money. Second, there's nothing to suggest that the students are going to learn more from it. And thirdly, it clears the distinction between leisure and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e366	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e369	My question also goes to the Minister of Knowledge. In January of this year, we marked the merger between the Gjøvik High School, the Ålesund High School, the Southern Trøndelag College and NTNU. At the same time, the University of Nesna, the University of Nord-Trøndelag and the University of Nordland became North University. Previously, the University of Finnmark has merged with the University of Tromsø, and we now only have universities and no colleges left north of Dovre, except for Sami college. There are still discussions between the Western Colleges on mergers. We know that Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark merge and have ambitions to gain university status. And the processes aren't finished in high school Norway. Today, the Board of Governors of the Sogn and Fjordane discuss what to do – whether to be seagoing, or whether to merge with someone else. On Monday, the University of Lillehammer, the Højskulen in Volda and the University of Molde received a reply that a cooperation model was not good enough. Such a model will not be strong enough for the consolidation of professional environments and priorities of resources, as the Council of State writes. The model will not improve the prerequisites of colleges for prioritisation because such priorities are necessary to enhance the quality of education and research, says the Council of State. In Norwegian, I read that it is important to merge colleges and universities in order to put down some offers. So today, we're experiencing unrest among those colleges that haven't found a partner or that won't get married. There is also concern in their local communities about what can happen to them, and what kind of meaning it will have. It is interesting to hear how the Council of State thinks that these colleges should still be a knowledge engine in their regions. My question to the Council of State will therefore be whether he can say what he wants with those colleges that can stand alone. Will they coercive through the use of financial resources because they do not have enough environments to build doctoral programmes, or will they become schools with only bachelor's education?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e384	Firstly, I would like to remind the Department that we need to intensify our clear language work. It's always a good reminder of that. Then I think the colleges that are now on their own should be worried. They should be concerned about the future because they have to deal with a whole new university and higher education landscape. The mergers that have taken place in the university and higher education sectors have come because a very broad majority in the Grand Duchy, with the exception of the Center Party and, in part, the SV, have said that they want structural reform, i.e. they want larger units in the university and higher education sectors. The second reason is that it has been partly quite local enthusiasm. I even have several examples of local central party representatives from the state of Oppland, from the state of Telemark, and even from Sogn and Fjordane, who believe that there is a need to become part of major institutions in the university and higher education sectors. So I believe that both in Sogn and Fjordane and other institutions, the Hochskulen in Volda, the Hedmark University, Lillehammer, should consider whether to join others. I believe that it will also give them greater opportunities to secure the professional offer that is there today. So the question of how to make sure that these institutions that remain are still going to have enough weight. There are no plans on my part to punish institutions that remain, financially. But it's clear that part of the money we distribute is based on competition, and it's not quite an uneven assumption that larger and stronger professional environments have a greater chance of reaching the competitive venues than small and more fragmented professional environments. But with regard to the funding system that we've come up with and put forward to the Storting, there's nothing there that means that the institutions will be punished for standing alone, but that they're going to have major challenges in a university and college landscape where there are more major competitors, I'm not in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e394	The Council of State has written that he will require all teacher training institutions to offer master education at least two of the three priority subjects — Norwegian, math and English. This shall be done by the institutions on their own, and it shall be a prerequisite for providing a five-year master-level teacher training, which is otherwise not discussed and adopted in the Storting. Today, we read in the paper that students of teacher training in Sogn and Fjordane are most satisfied with their study. Nevertheless, the government may risk cutting down on this teacher training and e.g. it in Eastfold, because higher education institutions do not have the skills required at their own institution. Then the question becomes: what gives a college that is merged with a university, a more capable teacher education than a college that cooperates with another university?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e401	One of the reasons, I think, is that both the board of directors of the Sogn and Fjordane as well as the employees, according to a vote that was taken there, are relatively positive to look at the possibility of getting together, is that they just want to keep the teacher training. When we say that we are going to have a five-year master's degree, we obviously have to set some quality requirements for that. Nevertheless, the intention behind the structural reform is that we should have decentralised teacher training. I think one of the reasons many of the colleges see that they have to cooperate with either universities or other colleges is to secure enough resources to build a new teacher training, strengthen the environment and be able to recruit well enough. Then, of course, we also need to spend money on strengthening teacher training, for example. through several scholarship holders. We're doing that in the year's budget, and we're not done with that. The higher education institutions that are interested in continuing their teacher training should be extra busy looking after partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e406	There will be follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e409	NOCUT's study barometer, where 29 000 students have responded on experienced study quality, shows that three of the five best elementary school teachers in the country belong to the Hochskull in Sogn and Fjordane. It may not be by chance or by chance that the students at the Sogn and Fjordane schools perform results among the best in the country. Nevertheless, this is disregarded, and many other changes are an enormous pressure for aggregation. If a summary is read, a decision should be taken if necessary, then there is a great deal of fear – fear of not getting a scholarship, of not getting a grant in the fall, of being afraid of not getting a master's degree, of being a represalist, actually from the owners, i.e. the Ministry of Knowledge, of not prioritizing one. Can the Minister guarantee that the Ministry will not discriminate against the merging colleges and those who successfully continue alone but in close cooperation with others?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e416	First of all, I think calling the follow-up of democratic decisions for fear of represals is a pretty funny language, to say the least. This has been determined in several rounds, even under the previous government. The previous government also had an ambition for structural reform in higher education. There has been a big message, broadly anchored, with broad connection to the main lines, though not to all the details in it. It's not a fear of reprisals. It's a normal democratic governance of a sector. That's what they say. It's a very important point that you have satisfied students. That's a very important part, too. It's one of the indications if you have a good quality offer. And I think that the High School in Sogn and Fjordane probably got to, among other things. Closer follow-up of the students, that they are good at giving the students feedback – much of what we know has something to say for good educational quality. Then there are other areas where, for example, The mound in Sogn and Fjordane do not have the same results, e.g. in the case of research publication and part of these matters. I believe the High School in Sogn and Fjordane now looks around for the merger partners and opens up for that process because they want to strengthen their college – not weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e423	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e426	After many of these contractions that we have experienced in recent years, even under the red-green government, there have been some paradoxes. One of the largest institutions in Norway is the University of Oslo and Akershus. They want to become a university, but can look far behind it, because the rules are changing, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to become a university in Norway. On the other hand, the Oslo and Akershus colleges are allowed to call themselves universities when they are abroad, when they are outside Norway's borders, and they have recently become members of the European University Association. At the same time, many colleges have now changed the sign and the logo on the wall. Those who had never had a chance of becoming a university are now part of NTNU or part of the University of Bodø, it could be the University of Nesna or the University of Gjøvik – good institutions, but university is not. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e435	The reason for that paradox lies more than ten years back in time. The size decided to put an end to what was a very clear distinction between colleges and universities in practice. That toothpaste is out of the tube. It also meant that, over a few years, some new universities that, in practice, at least with the evolution of the years, were not different from any of our major colleges. So that's how we've strengthened the requirements for becoming a university. We have also considered other options, such as: free-release, but it's not calling yourself a university that's crucial, it's the professional powers you get by being given university status that's crucial. We believe it is important that we are strict and have clear requirements to give the professional powers. Then there will be some paradoxes by the fact that strong institutions have also to some extent merged with weak institutions. But I believe that the total gives a higher education landscape that is better able to solve major societal challenges than what we've had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e444	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e447	My question is also addressed to the Council of State, Røe Isaksen. The low oil price has caused many to be left out or to lose their jobs — particularly in the West, in my home country, Hordaland, but not least in the neighbouring country in the south, Rogaland. The unemployment rate is now 4.9 pst, and the situation is getting more and more serious. At the beginning of the crisis, we know that many people got a job elsewhere after they were outsourced, and for a long time, other professionals needed the skills that were in the oil sector, and the vast majority of them got a job within three to four months. Now Nav reports that it is longer and longer before people get a new job, and there are constantly new permits and cancellations. Of course, those who lose the job at these times have a different economic situation than they're already watered down, but for many it's still not to have a job to go to and not to have a plan or a task in everyday life that's the worst thing. We know that many of those who now lose their jobs in the oil sector should not go back there, but rather find work in other areas. For many, this means that they either need to update their education and fill it up a little, or simply need to take a new course. The government has announced changes to the legislation, so that those who are already studying can complete them without losing their daily money. The government also makes changes that allow a person to receive a daily allowance if a student is able to combine it with a full job. That's very good. In the budget agreement, the Left, together with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party, also gave money to 550 new places of study. The question to the Council of State is whether educational institutions are rigged to deal with and remedy the current crisis situation, and whether educational institutions have framework conditions and room for action to provide those who are at present, and those who are unemployed, the skills they need to continue in working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e464	I am pleased that the representative was concerned that one of the most important efforts made by the cooperation parties has been a massive investment in research and development, not least by the Left. It is also very important to find out in the meeting with the increasing unemployment in the South and Western countries in particular, that if not everyone can go back to the jobs they had, we need to create new jobs in the private sector, and research and development are a prerequisite for that. So the question is, what can universities and colleges do? We are partly responding now, together with the cooperation parties, with a few more places of study, but I believe it is absolutely essential that universities and colleges themselves respond to the challenges they see in their region and in their labour market. We have non-detailed universities and colleges, which are not guided by detail from the ministry, but which have great autonomy to make priorities, for example: within the study portfolio. A natural part of this autonomy is that when you see new needs arise, whether for re-education, for new places of study or for other types of education in your region or nationally, you respond to them. That we use the resources, that the universities and colleges take the mission they have asked for, and that they use the autonomy they have asked for, to respond precisely to major societal challenges and provide the education that the labour market needs, I believe is at least as important as giving money to new places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e472	I thank the Council of State for an answer that I really liked the spirit in. So, of course, the question of today's system is flexible enough and it gives you plenty of autonomy. If a permit is issued today, there is a time until April 15 to obtain a diploma from a continuing school and apply for a study. Then you have to wait until July 20, before you know if you're going to have a place to study, and some time, approximately. in the middle of August, a study may be started to provide the competence needed to continue working life. So it goes from being unemployed to being able to start the study for many months. In addition, a contest must be made for grades from continuing school. The question, which is in the same spirit as the previous answer from the Council of State, is whether the Council of State will consider whether the timing of the recording and the criteria – i.e. the autonomy of the day – are appropriate to the situation we are currently in, and whether educational institutions, especially in regions that are hard to deal with, should be able to meet this in an even more flexible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e481	It's not quite accurate: if you've been in work for 15 years, it's not like you're just competing on the basis of your diploma from high school. Our system is a little bit more advanced than that. There are opportunities for real competence assessment, age scores and some other things. Item No 2 is that I think the institutions – especially in the South and Western countries – have been relatively flexible, for example. When we created multiple PPU places, i.e. pedagogic places, so that e.g. unemployed engineers could take a re-education and enter school. Then they were relatively quick to respond to it. We must – in the same way as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs – constantly follow the borderline between Nav and education, and now we have made some changes to it. So we also have to keep seeing if there's anything in our system, for example. related to recording requirements, criteria or start-up studies, with which we can do something. Finally, I would like to mention the subject schools, which are rigged for just this kind of shorter retraining course... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e492	I'm not sure there's time for that. There will be follow-up questions – first Ketil Kjeseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e497	The experience of the financial crisis, from my region and, in particular, the Raufoss industry, was that many were in a training course when the crisis hit – where they were in a situation where they lost their job and had to change to social security schemes – they had to choose between ending the education process or maintaining the social security system. It's a difficult situation. In the Western world now, it is particularly difficult that the course of education you might be in does not necessarily qualify for a job that is there when you get out again. So the possibility of switching along the way is one of the discussions — but also the possibility of continuing a course of education without jeopardising social security systems. The last thing I want to ask is in a way the conversion capacity in the higher education sector and also in high school, the flexibility to absorb, but also implement equipment from the industry that is now a little quiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e504	The last question I'm not sure if I was able to capture. For example, in relation to the ratio between the payment of e.g.: For example, unemployment benefits and education have just been announced by the Minister of Labour — the Minister of Labour who decides on social security and payments — that there are changes there, just to ensure that if you have started an education, you should be allowed to complete it without having to pay for it, for example. unemployment benefits. That's very good. So I also know that several institutions have adapted the composition of their study programmes. For example, although oil and gas will remain a very important industry in Norway in the future, it may be necessary to look at the content of some of the more petroleum-related educations in order to spread them slightly. I know that, for example. The University of Stavanger has done. In this way, there is a lot of dynamic and good in the university and higher education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e513	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e516	There is a lack of good real-life teachers, and there are many people with real-time skills who are now facing unemployment. Practical education is an offer to ensure that people with special skills are able to acquire teaching skills. But not everyone has full pot of study credits, as required. Some institutions therefore allow students to be admitted under certain conditions and fill in subjects while they are students and are taking the PPU study, but not all. The institutions decide this for themselves. Now the Council of State in reply to the Left has justified why he thinks it's natural. Then my question is: how in the world can a government council sit and accept it – and would not use the power to say to solve a big problem for those who are unemployed, and who instead have to rely on happiness and that they live in the right district in order to get this offer, which should have been given to all people in Norway, if they wanted it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e523	My principle is very simple – it is that within the national frameworks that exist, the institutions themselves are responsible for the quality of their offer, and then it is also those who must be the foremost ones to assess the quality and knowledge of the students who come in. That is to say, in the context of the new PPU sites and the very intention that more people, for example: has lost the job in offshore and has an engineering background, a real science background, should be able to enter school, we sent a letter to the institutions on 10 September 2015 with the following clarification: If a civil engineer lacks the necessary professional immersion in a profession to be able to teach, provision should be made for the possibility for applicants to take the necessary additional training in parallel with the PPU. We're familiar with NTNU, for example. have made a professional assessment of the additional training required to meet the professional requirements. So we encourage the institutions to do that, but it's not up to me to go in and instruct the institutions to do something that they think will lower their professional demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e534	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e537	Just this with studies, daily allowances and lay-offs, we brought up with the Council of State Eriksson before the crisis escalated in the West, so I am pleased with the follow-up that the government has made. But then, in January, the Council of State said that there has never been so many further training courses to choose from for teachers. There were 8,500 teachers who applied for further education last year, 5,000 were offered. In addition, the Stortinget separated in June 30 000 to 40000 teachers who are also going to further education. Higher education institutions and universities are fully involved in mergers and teacher training shall be changed and introduced and converted into five-year education by 2017. The vocational school year 2015 was cancelled and will come this year, but not before the fall, we have heard. I wonder if the Council of State can guarantee the quality of the offer for anyone who is now going into the higher education system. Because it's not just filling in places, we need to have quality in the study.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e544	I hope the representative can give the list of all the measures taken by the government to the representative Lysbakken, who has called me an idealess administrator. That was a good illustration of everything we do in school and education policy. Then – as we further train – we have to do everything we can to ensure quality. And what are we doing? We ask all teachers quite carefully whether they were satisfied with the quality and what can be done better — good evaluations. All in all, it turns out that almost all teachers — most of them — are satisfied with the quality of the offer they receive. Where they're not satisfied, the Education Directorate goes directly into paying and working with the institution to get the quality up. That's how we ensure that the quality of the offers offered is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e552	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e555	A particularly worrying trend that we notice in particular in the West right now is the increasing youth unemployment. As we all know, it is particularly serious with youth unemployment that too many of those who become unemployed at an early age do not get back into work. Therefore, SV has proposed a new and improved youth guarantee for unemployed under 25 years of age to be entitled to work, action or education within three months. My question really does matter. This, of course, is a responsibility shared by the Council of State with several other government councils, but: Does the government now assess improvements in the youth guarantee? And: Is the Ministry of Knowledge ready to contribute to it in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e560	We consider several changes, and the Ministry of Knowledge is more than ready to help fight youth unemployment. It's about rigging the education system, it's about the vocational schools, and it's also about apprenticeship and our vocational training, which is a very important part of this. So I've always been a little skeptical of these guarantees. It is largely the Workers' Party that has called its political promises for guarantees, and then it has always proved in practice that there is no guarantee at all. The Youth Guarantee has not been kept – in the sense that everyone has been granted the guarantee – for a single day since it was launched. So if the purpose of a guarantee is to push the system to work better, it could be good in itself. If the intention is to score a political point because you call something a guarantee, which is really not, I don't think this government should do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e565	Let's move on to the next main question. The representative Audun Lighthouse may be standing because he has the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e568	So can the Council of State Røe Isaksen! The councils have basically summed up my main criticism of him already, so I don't have to spend time on it. But I would like to ask the Council of State about the homework that is now spreading around the country. We see a number of parental reactions, both local and national, where parents want to try out other ways to organise the practice, both because for many children, exercise work is not supported as today's homework works, and because children's families experience a lot of stress and mass around the homework. We also see that more and more teachers are committed to trying out new ways of organizing the practice, because the trials that have been around the country, among other things. shows that teaching at school with teachers in attendance provides a better opportunity to follow-up the most demanding students, but also those who do the best — and thus better opportunities for adapted training. Therefore, a central part of SV's plan for a full-day school, which the Council of State is opposed to, is that there should be room to put homework into school day, so that instead there will be school lessons with teachers present. It's SV alone. But there are now attempts around the country. My old nursery school, Møhlenpreis in Bergen, was supported by the party traps of Røe Isaksen in the outgoing town council in Bergen to try this in the autumn, and the municipality of Tromsø has announced extensive trials. That's why my question about the homework makes an impression on the state council, and whether he's positive for trials with school without homework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e575	There have probably been stronger insurrection waves during SV's history than exactly this homework. I don't think I would call it homework, to be completely honest, but I see that there's a discussion about homework. The formal legislation is such that it is not the Council of State or the politicians who decide whether a school should have homework or not. It's a pedagogical choice, so it's the teachers and the schools that decide it. Then there are some principles for good teaching. It's that the homework isn't going to be new, it's going to be rehearsal, and it obviously doesn't have to be too much – and there I think it's a lot to do in the different schools. This means that if teachers at a school think that they can provide better education, and that students can learn more by organizing homework in a different way, or by not having homework, they have the opportunity to do so. I'm too lexicons. I'm too lecturing because I'm so naive and old-fashioned that I think practice helps. I think it works to practice things to get better at it. I think it's about going skiing, I think it's about playing the piano, I think it's about language, I think it's about math, I think it's about social science -- I even think it's about a subject like food and health. If you make some food at home, it's easier to learn to do it than if you just do it at school. So I'm for homework, and there's also evidence that homework, if they're given in the right way, can have a positive effect. So there's a thought among some that if you just take away the lessons, you'll almost eliminate one of the big problems in school, that the parents' background has too much to say. I think the very opposite is going to happen. I think the parents who are guaranteed to read to their children anyway, it's the parents that are the most resourceful. They're going to keep doing homework with the kids whether they're getting a message about it from school or not. Those who are in danger then are those who cannot be mobilized by bringing home homework from school, for example. children and parents must read together 15 minutes or 20 minutes each day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e584	I'm too lecturing, too. This is not a discussion about for or against practice, it is a discussion about how we organise the practice – whether it is done at home, where it is the parents who are going to follow up, or whether it is going to be done at school, so that everyone has the same opportunity to follow up from a qualified teacher. We're not for a school without homework, we're for a school with homework instead. I think the Council of State underestimates the strength of the commitment that is out there among people. There's a huge deal about a variety of actions for this. Infact made a poll in June that showed that 65 pst. supported the proposal to extend school day by 1 hour so that homework can be done at school with teachers present. I think being conservative can't mean being against change. My simple question is about the Council of State – I understand that he will not change today’s system – will consider taking the initiative to try another way of doing the homework. [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e593	I think the opening up about this is e.g. higher than the opening of the SV, so there is enough potential in this case. My point is that for many years there has been a discussion about homework, and I think the very best person to assess is the school – pedagogues and those who are professionally responsible. It also means that if a school, the teachers — they in the profession of a school — want to try this, they don't even have to send an application to the department; they can just do it. We have a homework facility. It was very rigid under the red-green. Now it's becoming more flexible, so that municipalities can deploy their homework where they need it. However, the evaluation of this scheme shows that it has no effect on balancing differences based on the children’s home background — the evaluation of the learning aid scheme shows that it is unlikely to have a significant impact. But then I'm going to give the representative Lysbakken this: if you put in full-day school – which I'm against – if all the students are going to be at school until midnight. 3:00 p.m. 16 or something like that, I also think it makes sense to do homework at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e604	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Elin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e607	Researchers at the Central Statistical Office, Marte Rønning, analysed the mathematical and natural sciences results for over 8 000 Norwegian fourth-classes. She found out that students with a low socio-economic background who get a lot of homework make it worse than students with a similar background who get less homework. Other studies also have similar findings. Outside the school, there is a big difference in how well students get help with the practice. The Council of State has also said that earlier today. I wonder what concrete steps the Minister of Knowledge will take to prevent the organisation of the practice from reinforcing social differences — and even providing lower learning outcomes for a significant group of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e614	I have already mentioned the reasons why I am too much homework. But the system is built up so that this is a choice that they make in the profession — the teachers, the school management. That's where the responsibility is located. I'm skeptical to those who say that yes, but because homework given in a crazy way – especially if there's new things to review – can reinforce the social differences, you have to remove the homework. I don't think very many parents will stop going through school, schoolwork, reading with the kids or doing other things just because the school hasn't given an explicit notice about it. But if that's the case, the question is, how am I going to make sure that all teachers in Norway give lessons in the right way? So it's a rehearsal, that you don't depend on getting help from home to learn something new – then you give a lesson in the wrong way. The answer to that is trust. We have qualified, well-educated teachers in this country who are fully capable of making both the discussion and this decision themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e624	Tone Merete Sønsterud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e627	The working party is not against homework, but we think it has to be given good lessons. The point is that the lessons have to be used as an instrument to promote the learning of students. Lessons should not be done in school, but should be adapted to the needs of students to practice on their own. Not all students have the opportunity to get help and support for the homework, which SV is also concerned about. In this context, actions such as organised counselling are important in order to ensure equal opportunities and, in particular, to contribute to social cohesion. This is why we have called for the development of a learning aid scheme as an integral part of the school day, so that students can complete most of the work before they come home. This must also apply to youth. What does the Council of State think of such a scheme? Does he still mean that it should only be voluntary and up to each school, or could one imagine that this became a more fixed arrangement in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e636	I believe that if the students are going to be longer at school, it should be because they have a schooling with a qualified teacher and with professional content. If you're going to understand the Workers' Party's proposal, you're going to have to either spend more of your school hours today doing homework, or you're going to add almost an extra lesson that's mandatory for all your students, where you're going to do the homework. Then I think it is better to add professional lessons. We have added several natural sciences lessons to the current year's budget. We know that, for example. are many who believe that there are too few math lessons in the youth. If we're going to have a longer day at school, I think it's going to be school hours with qualified teachers and with professional contents. Then teachers — in good discussion with others in the profession of the individual school — have to consider how to do their homework. That's why my answer to the many students I meet who often mention if we can't do anything about that there's so much homework: bring this up with the school! This is not a responsibility where the Ministry of Knowledge is going to go in and regulate in detail. Here we rely on the academic judgement of the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e643	We go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e646	One of the biggest downhills this government has given its voters, must be the gap between the child's haillifts they gave before the election, and what they actually deliver in position. With the kindergarten agreement, we got a historic expansion of kindergartens, with statutory rights for one-year-olds, so that they would be secured kindergartens. We got the maximum price, so families could afford to have their children in kindergarten. The red-green government built up kindergartens all over the country, and we worked in parallel with the quality of kindergartens. In the 2014 budget, we took the natural next step and started work with two babysittings. The national court’s meeting gave voters a promise of continuous childcare. It's in their program. Representatives from the government party criticized in this election the Labour Party for wanting only two recordings. It didn't hold to the right -- they were going to introduce a continuous fixation. The whales were tricked. The first thing that the Right did in government was to cancel the introduction of two nursery receptions and cut the nursery budget. Ongoing recording must be long-awaited by the voters - the caller has been cancelled. The result after two years of blue-blue government is the opposite of longer nursery cows and higher prices. What does the Council of State say to the voters who voted on the Right because they promised permanent childcare services? Does the Council of State admit that this was an election bottle? If not, why haven't we seen anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e657	After a little over two years with this government and this cooperation majority on the Stortinget, there are more places in the kindergartens today than it was under the red-green. There is a record investment in quality and content in kindergartens, and perhaps most importantly: those who have the worst advice in Norwegian society have had a moderating system – they have had cheaper kindergartens. It is not dependent on the goodwill of local politicians, it is a right for all parents in Norway. That was also what the parties went to – that there should be cheaper kindergartens for those who could afford the worst. So it is absolutely right that both the Right Party and the Advance Party had in their programs that you should have a more continuous recording. The way to do this is to give the municipalities funds to several places. Then the municipalities have to dispose of this in such a way as to, for example, can accept children who are not formally entitled to kindergarten based on what the red-greens in their time were thought to be full kindergarten coverage. After the budgetary conciliation with the Christian People's Party and the Left – not least thanks to the efforts of the Christian People's Party – we have also had more kindergartens again. In 2016, there will be funds for 3,400 new kindergartens. This means that, after that budgetary agreement, there is also the possibility of extending the border. It was not the government's primary position, but it is a compromise between the four cooperation parties and an breakthrough for the Christian People's Party and the Left. That means that children born in September and October will also have room. At the same time, it means that municipalities have the opportunity to have more flexibility for children who are not formally fit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e666	While the nursery cows went down under the red-green government, the cows grow under this government. The kindergarten queue is now over 8 000 children. That's the results after two years with this blue-blue government. In addition, prices have gone up for most. These are miles from the child hail lifts they gave to the voters before the election. It was the Left and Christian People's Party who in the budget agreement were forced by the government to grant rights to kindergarten for them also born in September and October. The working party goes further and gives rights to all born before the new year. In the election campaign, representatives of the government party said to the right: the right puts people in front of the system. We want a continuous admission throughout the year instead of the date hysteria with rights to a specific date. I ask again: how does the Council of State think it is not possible to deliver continuous recording, but on the contrary are forced by the Left and Christian People's Party to improve little on what he before the election called the date hysteria and wanted to get away from?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e677	I have never called this date hysteria, but it is possible that someone else has. I believe that the cooperation parties – the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left – are leading an offensive pediatric policy on precisely giving money to more places, while at the same time doing something about quality and content, while at the same time setting record levels. We have almost doubled the appropriations for content and quality – over 400 million. kr now – because it also has something to say about what kind of offers the children get. Then it is absolutely right that the government's main model was to give municipalities more kindergartens, and that the municipalities should dispose of them, so that they were given the possibility of more continuous admission. The reason for this was that the municipalities know the local situation best, and that would mean that the municipalities that had a continuous recording today – because there are many municipalities that have – could be even louder and the municipalities that were just nearby could then introduce a really continuous recording. But I also live more than well with the bet that comes now, with 3,400 new kindergartens, with an expanded right for the children, while there is a record high-quality bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e686	We have time for two follow-up questions – first Sonja Mandt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e689	The government was clearly told by its representatives at Stortinget to come back with a better arrangement for the parents of one-year-olds. There was a slight improvement, with an extended admission until 31 October, but no extra money for the municipalities. We know it's going to cost, and especially where the queues are the largest. This proposal is exactly the same as the Right Party and the Advance Party previously thought to be forethought, and a proposal that was identical to the Workers' Party's proposal to start escalating towards two recordings, but we added the money that was needed. So after just over two years, the families of children get a slightly better offer, an offer that in 2013 was far too bad for the Progress Party and the Right. Will the Council of State ensure that there will be money for extended admissions and further expanded admissions in line with the Storting decision, or will the municipalities themselves have to take the bill that is now charged to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e696	There's going to be money. The budget for this year is set at 740 million. NOK 3400 for new kindergartens. There is money that the municipalities get to set up several kindergartens, so there is no doubt that there is money here. It doesn't just help to say that, you also have to give money to the municipalities, so that they can expand more kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e702	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e705	The Christian People's Party believes that all children over one year of age must have the same entitlement to kindergarten, regardless of when they are born. We are very pleased that the government is now following up the budgetary agreement. The move of the date limit by two months is going to mean a lot too many families, but it's just a step on the way. We are not in the target until the queues are gone too for 1 year olds, only then the families have real freedom of choice. So my question is, can the Council of State assure the Christian People's Party that we are going to reach the goal of this great age by facilitating that all parents who want kindergarten will get it when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e712	I cannot assure you what will come in future budgets. I wish I could, then life as a government council would have been much easier, but it's not possible to do that. But I think people out there and parents with children in the nursery have – I had almost said – got both. They have improved quality, which I have always said has been the government's most important promise, that we should have a high quality offer given to the children, with competent employees, with more kindergarten teachers, etc. In addition, through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have strengthened the efforts made by the government in several kindergartens. And then we've also agreed that we're going to use the multiple places that the municipalities get to expand the date limit. Then we'll see what's coming in future budgets, but it's a common intention for all the cooperation parties that there should be better access to kindergarten than today, and then not least what we've done in moderation, is a very important contribution to that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e717	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e729	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Helga Pedersen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge who directs him. Question 2, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 3, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Care on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left. Question 7, from the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien to the Minister of Knowledge, is moved and answered, at the request of the Council of State, for question 1, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e748	This question, from the representative of Helga Pedersen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e751	‘Despite numerous measures and positive developments in recent years, Sami language remains in a vulnerable situation. Ensuring adequate Sami-speaking kindergartens is one of the most targeted things you can do to ensure that new generations can pass on the language. Parents in Alta are desperate because there are not enough Sami kindergartens to give an offer to their child. According to NRK Finnmark, January 18th, 17 children are in line. What will the Council of State do to ensure more Sami kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e763	It is important for Norway to take care of Sami languages, culture and traditions. The government's aim is for the Sami population to develop its language, culture and social life. Sami children in kindergarten will receive support for the preservation and development of their language and culture, irrespective of their country of residence. This is underlined both in the Kindergarten Act and in the Framework Plan. The responsibilities of the municipalities for the childcare provision of Sami children are governed by the third paragraph of Section 8 of the Children's Court Act. It follows from this provision that the municipality is responsible for the fact that the nursery provision to Sami children in Sami districts is based on Sami language and culture. In other municipalities, conditions shall be provided to enable Sami children to secure and develop their language and culture. The formulation of the Sami districts aims at the administrative area for Sami languages. The administrative area for Sami languages includes the municipalities of Karasjok, Kautokeino, Nesseby, Porsanger, Tana, Kåfjord, Lavangen, Tysfjord, Røirvik and Snåsa. Alta municipality is not included in the Sami administrative area. Therefore, according to the Children's Homes Act, Alta municipality is not obliged to offer Sami children's playgrounds to Sami children in the municipality either. However, in municipalities other than those in the Sami district, conditions shall be provided to enable Sami children to secure and develop their language and culture. The municipality must therefore facilitate that Sami language and culture are also part of the kindergarten content of Sami children outside the defined Sami administrative area, if their parents want to do so. The content of the childcare facilities for Sami children outside Sámi districts shall be adapted to the Sami background of the children. This implies that Sami children and parents have the right to expect that kindergarten employees are aware of and stress that the Sami culture should also be part of the content of kindergarten. Outside the Sami administrative area, there is no requirement for Sami-speaking staff to be in kindergarten, but as far as practicable, provision should be made for children to meet their Sami culture and their Sami language in an appropriate form. What is practically possible will depend on local conditions. I understand that parents with Sami children would like their children to go to Sami kindergartens. For Sami children, early and good language stimulation is essential for the further development and preservation of Sami languages. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation has set up a Sami language selection to explain the current arrangements, measures and legislation relating to the Sami languages. The government will further evaluate the follow-up when the language selection settings are available. The pooling manages funds where financial support can be applied for for organisation in each municipality and nursery, irrespective of where the nursery is located in the country. As a local nursery authority, the municipality is responsible for ensuring that the childcare facilities for Sami children outside the Sami district are adapted to the Sami background of the children. I would like to encourage good cooperation between the municipality and the parents in order to facilitate the best possible childcare for the Sami children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e780	I thank you for the answer, but it was not an answer to my question. We heard here in the previous round that the government is running from the child hail lifts that they gave in the election campaign in 2013, and they leave responsibility for the kindergarten development to the municipalities. It affects all those who need nursery places for their harvest children, but it also affects Sami-speaking children, who are particularly vulnerable when the local economy is missing. Sami is a threatened language in an international context, South Sami is seriously threatened. Kindergarten and school, where children spend most of the day, are vital for the preservation and development of Sami languages. The government has said that language is a priority – we do not see the results of that. On the contrary, we have seen that the Sameskole voor Mid-Norway has gone down to save $3 million. kr, a serious setback, and the investment in Sami kindergartens is waiting. That's why I ask again: what will the government do specifically to ensure enough Sami kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e787	Now I see that the representative promises this from talking about Sami kindergartens, which I have responded to – i.e. the border line between responsibility within the Sami areas and outside the Sami areas – to focus on kindergartens in general and possible outbursts in Alta. As I said earlier, in the previous case, in 2016 there will be 3 400 new kindergartens. That's what Alta municipality will get. It could also bring down any cows that the government is now betting – together with the Christian People's Party and the Left – in several kindergartens and giving the money to the municipalities. It is quite natural that we leave to the municipalities to operate kindergarten development. I don't think I've heard any suggestion that it's the state that's going to do it. With regard to the investment in language, the government has just launched a major new language initiative called Language Loops, including Sami.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e794	What I feel is that the Minister of Knowledge is doing here, is saying that it is the municipalities that have responsibility – sentence. I want a more offensive approach in this area. I am very aware of the distinction between the municipalities within the Sami administrative area and those outside the Sami administrative area. The issue today is that many Sami families of children live in the larger cities outside the Sami administrative area in all or part of their lives, and therefore it is extremely important to follow up with targeted measures there. I hear that the government is very satisfied with the bet on kindergartens and with the local economy, but that is not consistent with what the municipality of Alta says, because they say that unfortunately they do not have the money to implement it. It is good and good with cooperation between parents and municipalities, but it does not help when the municipalities do not have money. Therefore, my clear call to the government is: put on this, have greater ambitions, strengthen the municipal economy, and put in enough space for... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e803	I'm never satisfied with what we get. We have a lot left to do, but I believe that we have achieved good results, also in kindergarten, and then it is worth pointing out that Alta Municipality will also benefit from the cooperation parties' investments in 3,400 new kindergartens next year. The reason why I find that the municipalities are responsible is that the municipalities are responsible. So there are some things we can do from national teams, among other things. create several kindergartens, but this is a municipal responsibility. I do not know the municipality budget of the municipality of Alta in detail, but it is that no municipality can be exempted or run away from its local responsibility for prioritising, nor does Alta municipality. If they have chosen to give priority to this situation, it is also the responsibility of local politicians who are responsible for it. But the government, together with the cooperation parties, makes contributions in the form of multiple kindergartens and a bet in languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e810	Then we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e817	My question is: ‘How will the Council of State ensure the same quality of teacher training at self-accrediting universities and colleges which recognise their own education, as at universities which have to be approved by NOCUT?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e824	The quality of the new teacher training is crucial if we are to succeed in the ambitions of Norwegian schools, and accreditation of the new teacher training will be in line with the leadership given by the Stortinget in the Law on Universities and Higher Education. The competent institutions may even accredited their master’s studies; others must apply for NOCUT accreditation. The two processes are similar in Norwegian legislation. Universities may themselves accredit their master's programmes. In addition, universities can accredited master’s programmes in disciplines where they have doctoral programmes. It is NOKUT who has to assess whether master’s education falls within the field of doctoral education. All institutions are responsible for the quality of their own education and are required to have a satisfactory internal quality assurance system. In the case of self-accreditation, the Board of Directors of the institution responsible for accreditation has to set the same high standards for the training that NOCUT does. I am confident that the self-accrediting institutions will take care of this. It is NOKUT that has overall responsibility for the accreditation of Norwegian higher education. It includes both accreditation, supervision and any revision in relation to the accreditation of education and institutions. I am still in close dialogue with NOKUT to assure me that we have good processes. We have also invited the teacher training institutions to a meeting on 16 February. Here institutions are invited both with and without self-accreditation rights. The background to this is that all the courses must meet the same requirements in order to provide five-year master-level teacher training. The institutions will be provided with information on further progress in accreditation and the requirements that will be set. I am also in dialogue with NOKUT to set up an international advisory group to follow the implementation of the new teacher training courses. It shall contribute to keeping the implementation pressure up, even after the training has been accredited. After the establishment and start of the training programmes, it is time for the NOCUT to monitor that the study programmes meet the new requirements. Such supervision is relevant both for the self-accredited and for the externally accredited programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e841	Thanks for the answer. This is one of the concerns that is in Højskole-Norway today, because there may be a difference between teacher training as they are. We have had a major challenge in nursing training precisely because of this, and there may be a danger that more stringent requirements will now be imposed on those teacher training institutions that have not found a merger partner or that do not have a doctorate degree in education than would have been made for the teacher training courses at the new universities. Then it's a little surprising that if, for example. The High School in Sogn and Fjordane join forces with the University of Bergen – if that is the case – then they are suddenly accredited, then they are suddenly approved. But if they choose to stand alone, they can't cooperate either, because the government has said no to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e846	I haven't said no to them cooperating, because it's very important that you do. But cooperation is no alternative to assessing aggregations. Our entire university and higher education system is built around the achievement of satisfactory and strict criteria that gives you university status, university status or scientific status, and that gives you more opportunity to accreditation of your own education programmes. One of the reasons the government has been concerned about is that we're going to have strict demands to become a university, is that it gives some professional powers that we have to be quite sure that you can manage well. So I would like to stress that there are exactly the same requirements to be met by both accredited and non-accredited institutions, and whether or not they have merged or not merged, whether or not they stand alone, whether or not they have merged with other colleges. The last is that I also think it is natural that when you get a new teacher training you have a good review from NOKUT – and that will apply to all institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e857	It'll still be funny, for example. cooperation between Lillehammer, Volda and Molde is not good enough to validate a teacher training course, while if they merge with someone else, for example. merging with Sogn and Fjordane, their education will suddenly be good enough for teacher training. I understand what the Council of State says about merger rules and the possibility of self-accreditation, which I do not understand, is that the Council of State cannot approve a teacher training course where one is in cooperation, and that there must be a merger in order for teacher training to be good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e862	It is about the professional powers of the institution, and a university with a university, a university with a university, will have different professional powers. It's possible that I might misunderstand the representative now, but it's not like just because you're a university, you can almost at your discretion accredit a new teacher training, it's the same requirements that apply to all the teacher training courses in all the institutions. To put it at the top: for an institution that is self-accrediting, the consequence of doing this would be that when NOCUT comes over later, one could risk losing the opportunity or having to be reaccredited. We trust that the self-accrediting institutions will be able to manage their professional powers in a good way, but it's not that if you don't, it has no consequences – rather on the contrary, it can be very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e867	Then we go to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e874	This question is answered by the Minister for Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e877	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions, but which will then be answered by the Minister for Knowledge: ‘The so-called Islamic State of ISIS controls an approximate amount. 90 km long area along the border with Turkey by cities such as Azaz and Jarablus. Many media include: The evening post, has described how the border here is in practice open to the import of thousands of foreign fighters into IS's terrorist forces in Syria, and that there is also oil exports the other way, which means a lot to IS's economy. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the NATO country of Turkey view the practices of border areas where IS operates, and has this been addressed during talks with Turkish authorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e886	ISIL poses a serious threat to Turkey. On 12 January, the Foreign Minister visited Ankara. On the same day, Istanbul was hit by a serious terrorist attack, which engulfs the range of terrorist acts that have hit Turkey in recent years. Turkey is facing a serious and complex situation. In Syria, in the border areas of Turkey, there is an armed conflict involving many actors, including ISIL and the Al Qaida-related Nusra front. It is essential for Turkey to have control over the border, both to assert sovereignty and to prevent the large number of foreign fighters from entering Syria. This is a question the Minister for Foreign Affairs regularly discusses with the Turkish authorities, at the latest in connection with his visit to Ankara earlier in January. The gravity of the situation is also apparent in NATO, where Turkey has three times since 2012 taken advantage of the possibility to consult with allies under Article 4. The country has strengthened its air protection near the border, and possible additional measures are envisaged. Norway has built up below that line. As a member of the International Coalition, Turkey is also an active contributor to the fight against ISIL. Turkish bases have been made available to American fighter aircraft, and since last autumn Turkey has also participated in the air raids against Syrian ground targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e905	I thank you for your answer. It is true that there was an attack this winter in the capital of Turkey, and according to the Evening Post, it was the first time Turkey carried out an attack on IS, or ISIL, in Syria. I hope that there will be a development that will become clearer, that Turkey is stepping up its efforts. But it is documented in extensive reports, including: in the evening post, how thousands are imported into IS forces via the part of the Turkish border with Syria open to it, and a system with a port guard is described, etc. It is so crucial for the fight against terrorism in both Syria and here in Europe that there is no movement out and in there, and when you say that you have brought it up with Turkey, I would like to ask you in more detail if you have told me what the situation really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e912	I do not have details about the talks between Turkey and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but more generally, this can also be related to the refugee situation, and Turkey has accepted several refugees – most of the acids are in urban areas, and that is about. 300,000 who live in camps, too. So we know that Turkish authorities are also concerned with their borders. It is also a problem for the Turkish authorities and the dialogue with Kurdish representatives. Unfortunately, that dialogue has been iced up. After two years of truce and associated dialogue last summer, direct confrontations between the PKK and Turkish security forces occurred again. From the Norwegian side, we believe that the parties should resume the peaceful dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e917	I thank you for the answer and understand that it is the Minister of Knowledge who answers and that he is not in the detail. But as far as this area is concerned, I would like to say that the Kurds are the ones who on the ground provide the most effective resistance to the IS in Syria. They control the entire border area on the Syrian side along the Turkish border, except for these more than 90 kilometers. It is not the PKK, but the Kurdish YPG forces fighting here, and it is clear that Turkey is also holding the Kurds back by military means in order to be able to control also these parts of border areas on the Syrian side, thereby controlling the imports and exports of foreign fighters. So there's a double communication from Turkey that I think is obvious to the international community. President Obama had to resort to very strong pressure to allow some reinforcements at all when the struggle for Kobani was over Turkey. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e924	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e927	It might not be appropriate if I went into an analysis of neither the international situation nor Norwegian foreign policy, but I would like to stress that I cannot sign the wording of the representative, Bøhler, about double communication. I think I should be careful to note that Norway has a concern about the situation in the region. This also affects us. It is one of the biggest humanitarian crises, but it is also a security threat to Norway, among others. through the foreign wars, and Norway has a close and close dialogue with Turkey, exemplified by the Minister of Foreign Affairs visit to Ankara on 12 January, and that is also natural, as Turkey is one of our NATO allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e936	This question, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Care on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e939	Then I stick to the script and ask the following question: ‘The mining company Nordic Mining has notified that they start with drilling in the Engebøjellet in Naustdal despite the fact that the government has not yet dealt with the complaint on the emissions permit in the Council of State. Nor has the complaint to the EFTA Court of Justice concerning a breach of the Water Directive been dealt with. Does the Council of State think it is right to start mining even if the complaints are not settled?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e948	Then I also stick to the script when I answer the question: I have been informed that Nordic Mining's entire-time subsidiary Nordic Rutile intends to start a drilling program in February and March 2016, to upgrade the resource estimates for Engebøpelet. Nordic Rutile enjoys extraction rights under the Mineral Law of the Engebøjellet. The right of exploitation means that the company is able to carry out drilling and extract minor quantities of mass to conduct studies which are part of a preparatory phase for operation. No permit under the pollution law is necessary to carry out investigations, such as: drilling. In addition, it can be noted that decisions under the pollution permit of mining activities in Engeboefjellet have not been put into effect on the grounds of the complaints. This means that Nordic Mining has the opportunity to use its permission, even if the complaints are not settled. The fact that it has been complained to ESA does not change the company’s right of extraction, nor does it change our assessment of deferred implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e957	Our fjords are some of the dearest things we have, and that's why I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. That's also why the activists right now are gone and protest against the mining dump in the Fördefjord and are carried away. I think it is good that the youth and the locals give such clear feedback. Although there are people who want to use our fjords to dump mining waste in, a minimum of care must be taken. Recently, the Mining Company Nussir was granted an emission permit for copper mines and sea deposits in Repparfjorden near Hammerfest in Finnmark, and the emissions permit obliges the company to carry out an environmental risk analysis of the consequences this will have for the Førdefjorden in Sunnfjord, about 1,300 km further south. My question is therefore: is there reason for friends of life in Fördefjorden to fear pollution from the planned dumping of mining waste in Finnmark, or is it an expression of government policy when granting emission permits to mining companies on autopilot by cutting and pasting from one permit to another?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e964	I hope the representative will understand that there is a question that I as the Council of State cannot answer, when there is a question that goes on the responsibility of another Council of State and at such a level of detail that I do not have an overview of it here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e969	I get to respect that answer from Bent Höie. But if I can ask a follow-up question to Bent Höie about his role as Minister of Health: As Minister of Health, Bent Höie is well aware that preventing damage is a long way to prefer to repair damage. One of the most difficult and expensive environmental protection ministers in a government are trying to repair old damage in Norwegian fjords. Massive dumping of mining waste in the Fördefjord will lay large areas of fjords dead and prevent new life from getting footholds. In 2014, the Directorate for the Environment therefore wrote: ‘The environmental considerations indicate that the objection raised against the plans for the landfill of mining waste in the Fördefjord in Sogn and Fjordane should be followed.’ One of the reasons is that endangered species such as blue-winged and piggå have a spawning and breeding area in the planned landfill. Left-leader Stepe Skei Grande says the following about mining in Fördefjorden: I’ll ‘use every drool in my body to stop this’. My question is therefore: does the government have support in its parliamentary basis, the Left and Christian People's Party, to allow sea deposits in the Førdefjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e983	This is a matter decided by the government, and the Ministry of Climate and Environment gave a permit under the pollution law under the Nordic Mining on 5 June 2015 for mining activities in Engebøfjellet, and a permit with conditions was granted on the basis of the recommendations of the Environment Directorate of 13 February 2015. Of course, all the questions raised by the representative here have been carefully assessed in advance, and the government's view is that this is a business that can be run under the legislation that we have in Norway relating to the pollution law. Jobs in the West are also crucial. This is also something that has strong support in the local environment. As Minister of Health, I am at least very sure that having a job to go to is very important to health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e996	‘Research helps to save lives by developing new medicines so that many can live longer and with better quality of life. These medicines are expensive, and several patients have recently stood up and told about cancer medicines that are authorised in Norway but are not refunded here, unlike in many other countries. They can cost you $50,000 per dose. The Labour Party has proposed that Norway take initiatives at European level in order to cooperate in procurement. How does the Council of State feel about it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1003	The development of new methods, new medicines and new treatments is fundamentally positive. It offers opportunities to treat more patients and new patient groups. At the same time, it may be a challenge to reconcile the opportunities offered by medical technological development with the resources available to health care. We have therefore established national systems and rules in Norway to ensure equivalent access to medicinal products in the specialist healthcare system and through social security reimbursement schemes. Other European countries face exactly the same challenges in reconciling opportunities and resources. Cooperation between European countries in the field of medicinal products could contribute to addressing these challenges. The topic is also regularly discussed in the informal ministerial meetings of the EU and in the meetings of the OECD in which we participate. I am aware that WHO will invite Europe to a meeting in autumn 2016 on strategic procurement of medicinal products, with a view to enabling European countries to exchange information and learn from each other. Attention is also drawn to these issues at Nordic level, and in the autumn the Nordic Ministers of the Nordic Council of Ministers decided to monitor the experience of countries in the field of medicinal products and to identify opportunities for cooperation in the future. Norway has, of course, been positive about contributing to this work and providing our basis for it. At the same time, it is important to recognise that there are many challenges associated with international drug purchasing cooperation. Countries with large pharmaceutical industries may have interests other than those primarily purchased from this industry. Structural differences in the organisation and management of healthcare can also complicate cooperation across European countries. I think it is appropriate that Norway participates actively in the existing forums where these questions are discussed, i.e. in informal ministerial meetings of the EU, initiatives under the auspices of the World Health Organisation and not least the Nordic Council of Ministers. In the light of these experiences, we can assess what can be achieved through future cooperation in this area in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1018	Thanks for the answer. It is good that the Council of States is up to date and will follow in the informal talks that Norway must join in thanking Europe. I understand what is said about the pharmaceutical industry, that there may be countries that will oppose that kind of cooperation. But it is now the case that society has been involved in the development of these drugs through the education system, the research environment, tax regulations, etc. etc. in many countries. The research systems, e.g. Horizon 2020, and all of this is our common world heritage in very many ways. There is knowledge to share, it should preferably be through Open Access. Then, of course, the pharmaceutical industry can develop medicine further on that basis. This means that private ownership must be challenged in this context. Is Bent Höie interested in being more proactive in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1025	Norway is proactive in this area in the work we are doing. In both informal ministerial meetings and in the Nordic context, Norway is one of the countries that is very positive that this is an area of cooperation. So it's not Norway's will and initiative that are the challenges in this area. However, it is still a complex area, because countries have different interests and different established systems, including: for prioritisation. Norway is one of those countries that have developed good prioritisation systems over a long time, but also good culture and understanding of priorities. This is not necessarily the situation in all other countries. It is also the case that many other countries have different ways of financing health services than those in Norway, and therefore do not have as clearly a policy-driven system as we have in Norway. When a reader reads in the paper that funds are available in other countries, it is probably partly correct, but it is also within very different systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1032	The countries with which we have a great deal in common are the Nordic countries. There's probably more to do, especially given that this is happening very quickly. These are people who live in Norway today, who have been denied medication that would probably have allowed them to live longer and have a much better life. The individual relationships are going to be many, many more in a short time because the development is going so fast in medical research. Then there'll be a big ethical problem for all of us how we're going to deal with that. There are more and more diseases as well. The expenditure on health budgets is going to be formidable, and something has to be done about this. Is there any initiative that Höie sees that we can take from the Norwegian side beyond what is mentioned, to push the issue, for example. Create alliances with three-four-five-six countries, as a start?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1039	Yes, absolutely. It's not Norway. I think my colleagues in the Nordic countries too are very aware of that. We have a strong desire to do this. Where we are most likely to do so, we are working together between Norway and Iceland, where we already have contact to work more closely together. But there are probably different attitudes to this also in the Nordic countries. I understand that under the representative's argument, there is an understanding that we cannot allow the pharmaceutical industry to dictate the price of these medicines, and I fully agree with that. This is one of the reasons why we in Norway have developed a purchasing system where we come into a negotiating position with the pharmaceutical industry on these issues. But it must also mean that we sometimes have the will to say no if the relationship between the effect and the price of some of the new drugs is not good enough. Saying yes to something in a Norwegian system will always mean that one says no to something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1050	‘Does the government want to ensure that women of reproductive age entering medically assisted rehabilitation are offered free of charge, long-term prevention, and that this can be offered in an unbureaucratic manner, without women having to seek to cover the costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1055	Recent attention has been paid to children born to women in medically assisted rehabilitation and children born with withdrawal. Among other things, the Children's Ombudsman has asked for a meeting on the matter, and we have had that. According to the Health Directorate, there is no evidence that children born to women in LAR have been harmed or that there have been other negative consequences. But we don't know enough about how these children are doing, and I therefore agree that there is a need for more knowledge about the development of children born to mothers in LAR. The year’s letter of award to the Research Council included a statement that it should be stimulated for this type of research. The representative Toppe, and several others, have asked questions about all women who are in LAR, or who are to be included in the scheme, being offered free contraception, as recommended by the Health Directorate in the National Guidelines for Pregnancies in LAR. I assume that the relevant clinics and institutions follow the recommendation of the directorate in terms of offering free contraception. It is also explained in my answer to question No. 440 to written reply from the representative Toppe. The Health Directorate further recommends that prevention should be financed by the municipality of residence or through a government scheme. I have asked regional health companies to provide information on how the directorate's recommendation to offer free prevention to all women in the LAR is being followed up. The feedback shows that the question is addressed and that all women are offered prevention, but it is different whether the cost is covered by the healthcare provider or not. In some cases the cost is borne by the health enterprise, while in other cases it is covered by social services, Nav, the municipality or the LAR patient itself. The need for long-term prevention may arise either at the start of LAR or later in the course of treatment. The costs of implanting a hormonal spiral affect different funding and income systems, depending on who performs the service — an outpatient clinic in the specialist health service, a private practice gynaecologist with agreement with the specialist healthcare service or the patient’s permanent staff. On the basis of what I have said, I will now give the Health Directorate a mandate to clarify the financial responsibility and to ensure that LAR women have equivalent access to prevention in accordance with the national guideline.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1072	I would like to thank you for your answer. I have asked several times about this, today I have received an exact answer, and I thank you for that. My concern has been that there has been free prevention in the guidelines, but when a person visits the place of service, I know that practice is quite different, and that many people feel that free prevention is not a real offer. It is clear to me that when LAR is a state responsibility, it is wrong to push the funding of prevention, which should be an integral part of the supply, to the municipalities, and practice also shows that it works very differently. So my follow-up question is: will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the prevention of women in LAR becomes a state funding responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1079	I am now giving this assignment to the Health Directorate, but I will not conclude today on what is going to be the answer. But I very much agree with the representative on the situation that we are now seeing; that although we have clear guidelines in this area, there is different practice in terms of who has the financial responsibility. There are differences in the extent to which the patient himself has to pay, and it is probably perceived that there is confusion about this. It's a recipe that patients become the losing party. For this we know that there is a lack of clarity about responsibility and, not least, about who will take responsibility for the bill, there is a difference in practice – and we see that here. So the goal of the work now being started must be to find a solution that means that what is a very clear professional recommendation is also a reality for women in meeting with the LAR, namely that they are offered free contraception.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1084	It is known that drug addicts often have poorer access to normal health services than others, and that property itself can help to prevent others from providing. It's a little bit of a problem here, too. If there is an asset that you may have to pay yourself in the first place, there is an application process that can seem bureaucratic, which is not organised there and then, you can miss out on the system. In my view, it is important that when one is in the LAR system, things should be able to be arranged in one room in one consultation, so that the addict doesn't go into another system either through the municipality, social welfare, etc. So my question is, will the Council of State ensure that a drug addict who is in the LAR does not apply for it for free, and how long does the Directorate of Health take to make a recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1089	Again, I fully agree with the representative's description of the reality. Having schemes in which the addict himself has to seek out other parts of the healthcare system and pay peculiarities because the assessments to be given there are referred to as a recipe for this to go wrong. We also know that many women entering the LAR have often been addicted to alcohol for a long time. It is a drug addiction that makes the possibility of becoming pregnant often very small, and at the same time at LAR, increases fertility, and becomes more easily pregnant — and it is something that you can get information about. It's not sure that you think about it all the way, because you're used to being in a different situation. That's why the probability of getting pregnant involuntarily when you come to the LAR is very much greater than what you used to be in the past in life. There is an important reason in itself that this question is clarified at the start of the LAR, and the woman can get contraception if she wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1100	‘NVE recently received a report assessing the quality of biological studies in the case of small-scale applications. Large deviations were observed based on 20 watercourse studies. The number of red-listed lows and bogs was 12.8 times higher in the post-mortem studies compared to the biological studies that followed the concession applications. What will the Council of State do to ensure that we get proper investigations into the values of nature in power building matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1107	Let me start by thanking the representative Elvesuen both for the question and for the good cooperation between the Left and Christian People's Party and the government on the issue of the development of the renewable society, including increased production of renewable energy, in Norway. There is no doubt that the certification system has called for very many projects, which are demanding both for the central administration with the NVE in the head and the outlying floors, which are also being challenged. The report to which the representative Elvesuen refers is a report commissioned by NVE as part of their work to ensure that the knowledge base for concession decisions is adequate and best available. These include: because the NVE has seen that there is room for improvement in the field of biodiversity monitoring, in particular with regard to bog and low studies. Furthermore, the NVE is now looking at opportunities to improve the guidance material for biodiversity monitoring, but also other measures, to ensure that the knowledge base is adequate. Of course, I expect the NVE to follow up the results of this report in a good and appropriate way. NVE itself has significant natural competence. This contributes to the quality assurance of all biodiversity reports as part of the concessional treatment and, when considered necessary, additional investigations are often requested. Our entire concession system is set up in such a way that at an early stage actors with local and regional knowledge are included, but also the environmental management of the agencies themselves, the state's environmental management, are invited to make representations. It contributes to quality assurance that, in total, we are provided with an adequate knowledge base for decisions in the context of concessional treatment. This is an important reason why at the lower edge of 50 pst. all requested small power concessions are rejected. Just concern for biodiversity, which we all need to be concerned about, and which I know the representative of Elvesuen is concerned about, is very often a ground for rejection, as well as both landscape and outdoor life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1120	I thank you for your answer. I fully agree that the NVE has a lot of expertise, and it is important to have an early consultation round. But – and I do not agree – the consultation round does not provide enough information, because this study shows that the red-listed species are not being provided with enough information through the processes we now have. All the honors to the NVE that have initiated the process themselves and ordered the report, but now the question is: what do we do afterwards when we have discovered that more knowledge is needed when the NVE is going to do the balancing they are going to do? They shall consider whether the benefits of the intervention are greater than the disadvantages of the natural changes that occur. The question then arises: are you prepared not just to create a new supervisor, but to create a completely new quality assurance system?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1125	I probably don't belong to those who think that at any time, almost on any matter, you could say that now we have enough knowledge. On the contrary, I think it is important that we on the part of the administration and from the political point of view make it possible to continue to work on developing and strengthening the knowledge base. Of course, this also applies to the work on concession requests. Then I pointed out the biological studies that are done on behalf of the builder – locally, necessarily. However, they are also complemented by the fact that early in these processes – in a very open and inclusive way compared to most other countries – other actors, local and regional, are also invited to make hearings. It definitely contributes to strengthening the overall knowledge base of the decisions taken in the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1132	I agree with that, that is good, and we have to be the best in the world at this. But the problem is that just the knowledge of biodiversity is a very specific knowledge, as some people have, and this study shows that with the systems we now have, you can't capture the natural values well enough. This is not done through the processes that build up themselves, nor is it done through the consultation rounds, because the consultation rounds often indicate that knowledge is not good enough. Nor do you have the skills you need to go into an area and assess biodiversity. So the question is, can you take the step forward to look at the entire quality assurance system? Is there a need, for example, for: for a certification scheme with regard to who can carry out this assessment, so that it can be ensured that the knowledge base is sufficient for the NVE to carry out its assessments and that additional investigation is not requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1139	The report that NVE has now both ordered and received presents a wide range of proposals for improving this. I both trust and expect that the NVE will follow up this in a good way. I am concerned – and it also appears in the letters of assignment we send to the NVE – that the NVE itself should also have the necessary knowledge and competence to ask the right questions and to make well-founded decisions. But then it is that the NVE has taken up this work relatively recently. I have full confidence and expect the NVE to follow this up in a good way, so that we can also say in the future that we have gone beyond the best concession system in any country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1148	I would first like to take the opportunity to welcome the Council of State to Stortinget. ‘In the management of the notification, the Stortinget decided to establish a Maritime Fund to ensure increased income for the host municipalities of farming facilities. The Council of State will ensure that all payments after 1 January 2017 are allocated in line with the 20 pst distribution of the Storting. of the income of the State and 80 pst. of the income of the municipalities and counties?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1157	I thank you for the question and welcome. It's good to be back. You've enjoyed it here for 18 years. I could easily answer the question. I could say ‘self-evidently’, because my respect for the Storting is so great that when the Storting has made a decision on an 80/20 distribution, of course, I follow it up. We know that the farming industry provides significant value creation and activity in the districts. The government therefore wants the municipalities to have something to do with it to a much greater extent, and not least to facilitate growth – which is also the result of the issue of production areas and the new growth regime. In connection with the management of the aquaculture notification by the Storting, the Government was asked to come back with proposals for a facility for such a marine fund, not least on the allocation of the remuneration for future increases in salmon farming capacity. The Fund shall ensure the fairest possible distribution between all municipalities with breeding activities. The proposal for a device on the Maritime Fund is now out of consultation and the consultation deadline is set at 18 February. In its position on Stortinget, the Business Committee agreed to 80 pst. the remuneration shall be due to the municipal sector, while the country’s share shall be 20 pst. This has been taken into account for the hearing note. I cannot interpret the decision in Stortinget differently. Any alternative facility for the fund under discussion there shall be based on the premises and shall be based on the distribution on which the Storting has been based. In addition, I am now working to set up the new system of predictable, forward-looking and environmentally smart growth in the aquaculture industry and aim to enable the first growth assessment under the new system to be carried out early in 2017. This is due, inter alia, to: that it will take some time to put these production areas in place, not least the management part of it. Finding production areas may look easy, but it needs to be properly managed, so there are some challenges there. But when we have it in place, I believe that the Marine Fund must also be in place. In order to ensure the widest possible input, the consultation note on the Fund has a transparent design where several alternative devices are discussed. And as I said, the hearing period is February 18th, and I am aiming to present this to the Storting in the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1174	I thank you for the answer, and I'm happy with it if I have understood one thing right here. It's about payments for growth on existing concessions that are already granted, that is, before the fund is established, but not paid up yet. Over the last few years, we've seen that the money is very flexible. I am concerned that when the Stortinget primarily wanted this from 1 January 2016, at least I believe that when the fund is in place, all the money paid – regardless of what kind of basis they come up with – must be distributed according to that model. Is that also the Council of State's understanding of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1179	Now I'm going to go to script, so I'm sure the answer is clear and clear. In order to ensure a thorough process in which everyone interested in the Marine Fund was given the opportunity to make recordings – I have to include them too – there was not enough time to do something about it for 2015. It also has something to do with the 5 pst. growth that came in 2015. It also creates some confusion, but there is therefore a deadline of 1 December 2016 for the 5 pst. growth that came in 2015, and there will be 50 pst. of the European Parliament But I can say clearly: all production growth and growth from 1 January 2016 will be distributed and allocated to the municipalities according to the assumptions made by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1186	I thank you again for the answer. Governments have received considerable help in this work now that Networks of Flanders and Coastal Communities together with Seafood Norway have issued a joint consultation opinion. Of course, the centre party is committed to what we agreed on in Stortinget. It involves an 80/20 distribution. In that consultation opinion, Sjømat Norway and Network fjord and coastal municipalities have been asked to increase the municipal share. I just want to make it clear that if the Council of State were to come to the conclusion that there is a basis for a higher municipal share and wants to get to Stortinget with it, the Central Party will not stand in the way of such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1193	Now I am not going to comment on the hearings that have already come. I will sum this up when the deadline has expired on 18 February. But I record that there are different signals coming, also to increase only on the primary municipality versus the county. Someone's gonna order that 100 pst. must go to the municipality and county. Then we're left with a distribution between these two. But it is clear that if I get signals from the Storting that you want the Council of State and the government to provide alternative models, I am, of course, open to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1198	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-03.ana.ud1779e1211	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before today's meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
