ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e27	The President will propose the election of two Chairman-in-Offices of the Grand Duchy on Thursday 10 March – and will consider it adopted. The President will propose Sverre Myrli and Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli and Hans Andreas Limi are unanimously elected as chairpersons of the Stortinget meeting on 10 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e43	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e50	President, first I have to say thank you for the beautiful marking of the anniversary that we just had. But now it's going to be used for what it's going to be used for, that's to discuss politics. Many of the decisions we take in this room are not decisions that get the big headlines or change the political debate in Norway, but nevertheless they are very important, because we are discussing and making decisions on social services that we all depend on. The issue we're going to discuss now is one such example: land surveying, a community service that we all need. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. They asked for the abolition of the municipal monopoly on land surveying. I guess the majority parties themselves are going to argue for their proposals, and I'm using the rest of the post to argue for the minority's view. I think it is important first to say that there is today a high quality of the work done by the municipalities in land surveying. It is a service that has few complaints and gets disputes. We fear that privatisation of this service will lead to a deterioration in quality and the cost of the product. Commercial actors will not have the same responsibility for the final result as the municipality. They only want a small part of it, and it is regardless of the municipality that will be left with the great responsibility. The argument for the proposal pointed out that there were price differences between municipalities today regarding this service. If you think this is a problem, privatising the completely wrong medicine. Privatisation could lead to more actors and each actor could take its own price. This is something that is likely to lead to greater price differences, not less, for which it is argued. As we all know, Norway is a long-distance country. Land surveying will be equally important across our country, but private actors will not be equally attractive to be anywhere. So if the responsibilities of the municipalities stop and the system is terminated in the municipalities, there will in many places not be private actors who will be ready to take over. Privatisation will particularly affect districts. In many places there won't be many players standing by, it might just be one. We will have a private monopoly, which could be the result of this proposal. We know how important it is to set the right limits, that there is no doubt about where the boundaries are going, and that no one can so doubt about the decisions. Public opinion today has high credibility, and there is reason to wonder whether private companies purchased to set a limit will be perceived as equally neutral. Of course, I have confidence that most companies, perhaps all of them, will do this in a professional and real way. But just that there's a question mark about it, makes us have a problem. We will probably also be able to find ourselves in a situation where several places on either side of the border are likely to have individual private surveyors, which could lead to more conflict. This proposal is very much opposed. The large organizations working on this warn against it. NITO, which is the largest organisation, says clearly. So does the Trade Union, which also organizes many in this service. So those who work on this are against it. We believe that quality is being reduced and that consumer prices are increasing. So why should we open up to private solutions? As we see in the Workers' Party, this right-hand side's desire for privatisation is for the sake of privatisation. There are no good factual arguments for this proposal. Obviously you've also realized that a little bit yourself, because it's a rather moderate proposal based on what really came in, which is what's going to be adopted today. From the fact that it was established that the aim was to abolish the municipal monopoly, it is said today that only an investigation is requested on how to organise the work on property surveying. It is quite strange that the Right Party and the Progressive Party must promote a proposal for a representative in the Grand Duchy on what their own government should do. Of course, the government has to investigate exactly what they want, and as the case has gone on, and as the arguments have come out, we hope that the arguments are now being listened to, and that we end up not getting any change. Finally, I want to praise the Christian People's Party, which has taken note of itself, and although they were in favour of the proposal, they have today stated that it is not reasonable to go further. Finally, I will give them credit for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e76	The issue of how to organise surveying services and food management has a long and somewhat special history. In NOW 1999:1, on property registration, the issues were thoroughly addressed, and the expert committee’s main proposal at that time was the introduction of a distinction between the exercise of authority through the provision of food and services through the measurement shop. The municipalities were supposed to run the matrikel, i.e. they were still in authority, but the measuring business was to be carried out or led by a professionally responsible surveyor. Authorisation and authorisation were to be required for both private companies and public bodies. A minority of the sample suggested that the municipality could decide whether it would do business in its own municipality and only if it would do business in its own municipality. The committee further considered that the legislative proposal had limited economic and administrative implications, but that there should be flexible transitional arrangements. Following extensive consultations, the Government of Bondevik presented proposals for a new law, which was adopted in the United Kingdom in June 2005. The law followed the recommendations to a large extent, but followed the minority of experts in the question of whether the municipality itself could choose how the work was to be organised in its own municipality. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party joined most of the proposal, but did not want to distinguish between government and service production. However, before the law came into force, a change was made to the Stortinget in 2007 which meant that the municipalities would continue to have sole responsibility for the survey, and the requirement for authorised surveyors fell. This leads us to today, where we are debating a proposal for a representative from representatives of the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right, addressing the issue of municipal monopoly on land surveying. There has been a high level of involvement in the case from various organisations and individuals. Some want to keep today's system, while others want to make changes, as is often the case when the issue of changing something is raised up politically. There is a proposal on this subject which is supported by the Progress Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Right. In the proposal, the Government asked for proposals on how to organise the work on property evaluation, including an assessment of an authorisation and certification scheme for such services. This is a relatively balanced proposal, and the many contributions that have been made to the matter clearly show that there are many factors that need to be balanced in the government's assessments. From the Right side, there are some main principles that it is important to be illuminated. Should it be a principle that the applicant, or the resident himself, can choose a surveyor? It is very common in Norway that we allow individuals to decide who we want to do services that are not part of public authority. Would it be right to have a municipal monopoly in this area? Monopoly may be necessary in some areas of society, but I think we should limit it to the extent possible and sensible. It is also very common in most municipalities to hire private surveyors to carry out the survey itself. Is that a real monopoly? Should the authorisation of the responsible surveyor be required? I believe that requirements for competence, education and experience will be important to most of us when we get a service done by others. Everyone's heard stories about border disputes that can go on for generations, and families that don't talk to each other because of differences about a border. This is one of the areas where we need solid professionalism, so why not make it part of a system? I think it would make sense for a new assessment where management and service production are distinguished. It will give the individual greater freedom to choose between several actors and make a choice based on price and delivery time. The current charging system in the municipalities is often based on the area and the delivery time depends on the capacity of the municipality. Competition for a service is something most of us take for granted every single day, so why not also on surveying services?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e95	In this case, there are many important elements. The distinction between the local authority and the production of services is one of the most important elements in this way. The municipality as an authority therefore deals with applications for the creation and modification of property. At the time of the authorisation, measurements are carried out as service production of approved surveyors. That is the starting point for the draft representative we are discussing. Finally, the measurement business is authorised and recorded by the government. That it is only the municipalities that should be able to do this, we can really not see that is well enough justified by the parties that do not support the proposal. They show, among other things: to what is stated in the proposed representative, that the price of measuring a property varies from NOK 16 000 to NOK 531000. Both of these prices can't be right. What's the right price is very difficult to say, because you don't have a chance to control it against other actors. It's also that this is going to be driven to self-sufficiency, and both of the extremes I've just referred to can't be right in that way. This is a good argument, we believe, in order to open up a competitive element in it, which is also the intention of the proposed representative. Then it's not like that, as the rapporteur said, that we're going to ban the municipalities from doing land surveying. They have to, but they also have to be able to give up their monopoly. A good and smooth transitional regime should be found if the municipalities lack the necessary qualifications, we should also be able to maintain them in a good way. What's crucial for us is to get the element of competition in order to get the right price, instead of the big price variation you're now seeing. So, of course, there will be price variations when private actors come in, but that's basically how a market works. In conclusion, it will be interesting to hear the next article, from the Christian People's Party, as the Christian People's Party is the proposer in this matter, together with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, but along the way has jumped off and not supported the majority position. I think that's a bit of a strange procedure by the Christian People's Party, but that's what the Christian People's Party has to explain in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e108	The underlying concept of ‘land surveying’ must be understood not only as the technical surveying job out in the field but also as an overall process under the Law on the Law on Food and the conduct of a surveying business. The survey itself is only part of the municipality's work on surveying business. So this whole thing is going to break up by abolishing the municipal monopoly. As others have mentioned, it is a little unusual that I have chosen to go against a proposal for which one of my party traps is a co-sponsor. Nevertheless, we have had a complete discussion of the proposal and found that it is most appropriate to retain the overall responsibility for the matter that the municipalities have today. Many municipalities have small and vulnerable units to measure, and it is not appropriate to further weaken these disciplines. Now it has to be said that there is a lot to learn from the effect of the ongoing municipal reform. This is one of the areas where many municipalities can benefit and become more robust by creating new municipalities together with others. Surveying of land is the exercise of authority and there are several advantages to its continuing performance by public officials. This may be particularly important in cases where there are disputes or uncertainties about the location of the property boundaries. The neutrality of public service personnel also carrying out the work in the field can solve a lot of smaller issues there and there. There are many examples of ambiguities about borders being solved without conflict there and then – on site – for the benefit of all parties. There have been large differences in fees. It can easily be solved by a cost principle. Several municipalities today choose to subsidise the measurement fees in order to become more attractive to establish themselves in. It's going to be price differences, but it can hardly be called unlucky. Section 1 of the Matrikkel Act states: ‘Lova shall ensure access to important information on ownership by keeping a separate and reliable register of all immovable property in the country and by clarifying boundaries and ownership conditions.’;» [[matrix]] This can of course also be achieved with the changes proposed, but there is a major risk that the whole measurement business will be lost and the consequences for the matrix will have to be thoroughly investigated as a minimum. There is no point in repairing anything that works well. Today, the services provided by the municipality are of high quality. Much of the reason that there is trust and quality is precisely that today’s practice ensures the whole picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e130	Under the law of division, municipalities are responsible for all aspects of ownership registrations, including measurement, labelling and registration entries. Law on ownership registration, adopted in 2005, opened up for measurement activities to be carried out as private service provision. This was in line with the plural proposal in the previous NOU. In 2007, the law on ownership registration was amended so that public responsibility for property measurement was passed on as it was in the law on sharing. Now, representatives from the Right Party, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have again put forward proposals to ask the government to cancel the municipal responsibility for property measurement. During the committee reading, the Christian People's Party has fallen away, and the proposal is moderated to read: ‘The Government is asking for advice on how to organise the work on property measurement, including the assessment of authorisation and certification arrangements for this type of service.’ The centre party does not support the proposal. We don't think it's right to distinguish between government powers and services in this area. We will continue the measurement business as a public task and not separate this business from the record keeping. The Centerpartiet also meant that in 2005 and 2007. We believe it is very important that municipalities maintain the necessary skills within maps and measurements, and that if ownership registrations are divided into two separate parts, it would be difficult to do so. If the register is of quality, it will require both theoretical and practical knowledge in the field of surveying. In the context of the amendment of the law in 2007, problems were raised, including by the Red-Green Government, that privatisation of surveying businesses meant that municipalities would have to build up their own survey work because there would not be enough candidates in such a new market. The centre party also fears today that the municipalities may be lost to professionals, so that they are left without staff with professional qualifications to carry out surveying, matriculation and other tasks requiring such qualifications, if privatisation is carried out. Even with the law of the day, municipalities may, by agreement, leave to others to carry out the measurement activities on behalf of the municipality. It also happens, but it does not change the municipality's duty according to the law to be responsible for the entire ownership registration. This is an important principle to ensure the legal security of the individual citizen. Property registration is too important to be left to the market. Many municipalities and trade unions fear that the privatisation proposal will result in poorer local provision of services and that it will weaken service provision especially in the districts, as it may take a long time to establish private farmers’ organisations in the districts. The majority of the selection that developed the NOU in 1999 also saw the danger that construction activities in some municipalities could stop, because it could be difficult and expensive to carry out the surveying by means of a private company. Privatisation of service provision leads to centralisation of service provision. And we also see that in other fields. In the 2007 amendment, the party behind the proposal today wrote in the opinion that free land painter choice and the establishment of private surveyors ‘can provide a useful consultancy industry providing effective assistance to the parties in property matters’. [[...]] The task of the centre party does not seem to be to provide a useful consulting industry for surveying. The central party sees it as a task to facilitate useful and good municipalities with unique competences within this area, which have confidence in the population. The fact that the right and obligation to carry out property measurements is transferred from the municipality to a bidding round between individual individuals who need a limit measured up and providers of survey services is, in the view of the Centre Party, a wrong development. It won't provide better quality or cheaper services. Surveying is the exercise of authority. The central party believes that property limits should not be measured according to the principle of supply, where one of the parties to a new boundary leases the landminer to set it. I would finally like to praise the post of the representative of the Christian People's Party and am pleased that they have turned around in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e150	On the left, we clearly believe that it is right to review how the work on property measurement is to be organised. I would particularly like to support the contribution of Eirik Milde from the Right, who had a review of the historical processes behind the legislation we have today – a 1999 NOU, where the sample went in to create a state property register with maps, the matrix, and that measurement transactions for the establishment of new properties and the measurement of borders were to be carried out by private, authorised surveyors, in line with the scheme in Denmark and most other countries in Europe. Permits and matriculation were defined as the exercise of authority, also in line with the regime in other countries. There is no doubt about what is the public responsibility. The Bondevik government also presented a proposal in line with this in 2005, with one exception, which meant that municipalities could still choose to have a survey as their sole responsibility. Flexibility was in that proposal. However, when the new red-green government in 2007 was in favour of having a municipal monopoly – a monopoly imposed by the state – on land surveying, we believe that this should now be re-examined, both from the experience of different prices and in order to give greater flexibility to municipalities. It is clear that the municipalities themselves should be able to choose whether to retain it as a sole responsibility, and we also believe in this investigation that the government should consider it. It must also be possible for municipalities to use private land surveying companies. What is important by having a new assessment is also what is the last part of the proposal, that we need to assess an authorisation and certification scheme for this type of service. It was that part that fell away when the red-green government made its change in 2007. As has been pointed out by several, it is still the case today that municipalities can outsource service production, but we have no authorisation system for it. I believe it is timely to have this review – both in terms of the history of the case and the experience we have – and it is important that we have an authorisation and certification system for that type of service. In this case, I think everyone agrees on the importance of surveying, and how important it is to have a perfectly correct matrix.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e163	Is there anyone in this room who's ever bought a dwelling? I am at least one of those who have done it, and there are probably a lot of people here who have done it – everyone can't have inherited it. If you have purchased a dwelling, have you ever seen the mecler as an independent person? The broker is not an independent person, the broker is paid by the person who sells the dwelling. There's no doubt about where the mercenary's loyalty lies. Is there anyone here who thinks that the valuer is doing a completely independent job? Then they are at best naive because there is no doubt that the appraiser is essentially getting his orders from the mercer, who gets his orders from the one who sells the apartment, and the loyalty is to the one who gives you the assignment, so it will always be. One of the things that makes me think this is a relatively simple proposal to deal with is the following: At the moment we move by the principle of the loyalty of the one who is going to measure properties, and say that it should no longer be the municipality – that is, the one who implements the administration and the administrative decision – but a private, a part of the case, we also move the loyalty of the one who does the job. Therefore, I believe that when the Council of State does not at all go into its consideration and its assessment of the proposal in the problematic aspects of moving the loyalty of the one who is to carry out the measurement, but on the contrary writes that he ‘has no comments on the proposal’ – he sees no problematic aspects in the fact that the loyalty of the one who is to carry out part of this task is moving – then there is no work at all by the Council of State. It does not promise good for the investigation to be carried out, because the measurement and the whole implementation of the administrative decision have two sides. It has a measurement page, and it has a management page. The surveying service is the core task of the management decisions. It is therefore essential that the loyalty of the person carrying out this task be with the municipality. At the moment it's up to private actors to order this service, we move loyalty. The municipality, on the other hand, has an interest in ensuring that the measurement is neutral. Then someone says it's too expensive when we have too little competition. Well, then there are two options to do something about it. The people who think it is too expensive can make sure that the municipality puts out the work of carrying out the survey, or you can regulate the price by the authorities. Both of these options are possible, and at least we're not doing anything about the loyalty of the surveyer. If right-wing people think that it is a big problem that this is not a competitive issue, then make sure that municipalities are required to outsource this service, and at least make sure that loyalty is with the municipality. I do not agree with that entrance, but if the right-hand side would like to see to it that there are several private actors, so – preserved – do so, because then we maintain the loyalty of the surveyors to the municipality. The third thing I think is important to emphasise here is that when this is to be implemented – because there is a majority in the Chamber for this – the question of where the loyalty of surveyors should lie must be a central issue. In addition, many good arguments have been put forward, in my opinion, both on the part of the rapporteur and of the Central Party on the possible consequences of this. I hope these are thoroughly reviewed in the work that the Council of State is going to do. But if he doesn't make sure to think as all sensible people do, namely follow the money – where is the loyalty of those who are going to do this work? – the Council of State does not do its job. But I hope he will. [[Applause from the gallery.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e180	Neither consent nor the opposite shall be permitted from the gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e183	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good job. I would also like to thank the government for an exciting assignment, and I can assure the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås in particular, but also the Stortinget in general that we are going to carry out a thorough assessment. We've already started that work. The store has had this case lying on its table for a relatively long time, and that means that we are doing this investigation well. We're going to send it to the general hearing before the summer, so we can also see results. I agree with those who say that the majority of municipalities do a good job, but that does not mean that the system should be maintained as a municipal monopoly. I record that it is said by the Center Party that this is too important a job for private individuals to do. That's a special statement. It means that it's okay that private people take responsibility for our children, our elderly and hospitals, but surveying is too important for private people to do that work. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås raises questions of loyalty. Let me just point out that the surveyor is not a judge, but will act as an expert intermediary and document what the parties have agreed on. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås jumps over elegantly, is that the municipalities themselves are often party to such matters, so this is not always about two private ones. To the extent that you are concerned with loyalty, there should also be a problem that should interest the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, because the municipality itself can also be a party to such a case. Many municipalities today agree with the Swedish Road Administration that Vegvessen keeps surveyors on road-ground issues. So that issue is important, but it's not new, and it's not specifically related to opening up to private people to do that job. I hope that the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and the opposition will also be interested in those issues when you go into the matter. The reality is that Norway is alone in Europe to organise property surveys as a municipal administration task. When we now work on this matter, we will also look at how it is done elsewhere. The mission we've been given opens up important questions of principle and practicality that we'll be going through, among other things. the question of competence and authorisation, raised by the representative Ola Elvesuen, and we see that by defining measurement as a free provision of services, we will be able to clarify the role of surveyors as expert advisor and intermediary. A reform could provide better advice at all stages of a development project, with contributions from competent surveyors, from planning through a preliminary conference to implementation. I agree with those who say that this is an important question. That is why I am pleased that the Storting will give us a job to look at it, and we are going to send a case to the hearing before the summer, so that the Storting can again have the opportunity to assess this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e199	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e202	First, I would like to say that it is quite special that a government council does not have any comments when he writes letters to the committee, while at the same time drawing up a regulation. I'd like to hear a little bit more about what the government is thinking about. I also want to ask the government if it doesn't see the problem that if a survey is done on just a private service case, there will be a risk in areas where a non-market does not want to create private businesses in this area. Does the Council of State see that, in some areas of the country, privatisation can lead to a poorer supply unless the municipality still has a duty?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e209	I would have agreed that it would have been a problem if you were to imagine privatising this service, but that is not what the majority of people are talking about. The majority of the population is to be able to assess whether this task should also be carried out by others than the municipality. We're not working on a prescription, but we're working on an investigation, as Stortinget is most likely going to ask us in voting later today, and we're investigating the question. Then it will be sent to the general hearing, and then we are prepared to come back to Stortinget, so that the Stortinget gets the opportunity to discuss this question again. And then it will be that the municipality can still do this work, if there are no alternatives that people can choose from.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e216	I just want to stress – so there's no confusion here – that this is about a two-part task: it's the management task, and then it's the measurement itself. I don't see the council of state thinking that anyone other than the municipalities should take the administrative decision, and then it's good if the council decided whether he's also thinking about outsourceing that task somehow. If it's the actual execution of the survey you're talking about – and the Council of State is very precise, in line with my criticism of shifting loyalty to the actors who do the survey if one transfers it to private, says that it can also be the case in the state – then my question is: If it's the loyalty issue that's the main foundation of the council, wouldn't it be reasonable to see if one should have more complaint mechanisms or that someone else should take the decision in the matters where the municipality is party, instead of trying to expose it all or to leave it free?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e223	Now the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås took up the loyalty question and thought it would be a loyalty conflict if private individuals could also act as surveyors, and that was when I pointed out that if you are engaged in loyalty, then the public and the municipality themselves are party to such matters. This means that the problem that Eidsvoll Holmås chose to lift could also be relevant to today’s organisation of surveying, similar to that – as I pointed out in my main post – the State Road Service also acts as a surveyor in some cases where it is actually about road surfaces. What will be the advantage if you then choose to allow someone other than the municipality to do this work, is that you get an authorisation scheme where it is also possible to separate what you can call unprofessional operators. We haven't taken a decision on this question yet, we're investigating it, and then we're going back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e230	With all due respect, the Council of State now rotates, because no one has said that they are against private carrying out the survey. I haven't heard anyone say it, on the contrary. Both the Center Party and others say that there are private actors doing this, but we raise this fundamental question: who is it that will order the private ones? We are hard pressed to say that at the moment you move the responsibility from a public order from that service, you also shift the loyalty to the one who performs the service. That's why we're so principleal about that question. If the Council of State believes that loyalty can be a problem for public operators, and if public operators order it, does it not recognise that it is a problem if private operators order this service, which is at the heart of the reform proposed here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e237	If the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås had heard my post, I stressed that these are important questions of principle and practicality that must be addressed. It was – to underline it again – the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås who raised the question of loyalty. Then I pointed out that there is a question that can also be turned on, and I said that one could have similar challenges when the Road Service measures up road surfaces, or when the municipality itself is a party to the case. If the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is also concerned with the principal aspects of today's organization, he should vote in favour of the proposal that is to be voted on today, because it gives us a great opportunity to go through the fundamental issues and see if we can find better solutions than those that we have in today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e244	I'm not against the government investigating anything. The Council of State must be allowed to determine what he wants, but the starting point for this proposal is to want a freeway from whom it is to order the survey service. That's the starting point. That proposal and that direction to go in is what I'm against. Therefore, I think it is important to ask a direct yes/no question to the Council of State: does the Council of State see that at the moment when you move the responsibility to order the land survey to a major property operator, it can move the loyalty of the person who is going to do the work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e249	The surveyor shall not act as a judge on such matters, but shall act in particular. document what the parties agree on. After all, the majority will decide that we should address these questions. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås has himself been the state council and knows that one is investigating before concluding. It would be natural that we are now investigating this matter, with the principal and the practical questions. Then it will come to public consultation and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e254	But it would have been nice if the Council could answer yes or no to a simple question rather than bypassing the whole question by saying that the decision should be taken by someone else. What is fundamental to me, and which is why I am opposed to the whole reform proposed by the representatives, is that I am concerned about the relocating of loyalty. I am not exactly reassured by the fact that the Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee: 'I have no comments on the proposal', which is what the Council of State says. Therefore, I would like to ask the question again: does the Council of State see that the loyalty of the person carrying out the survey can be transferred from the municipality, which is to take the administrative decision, to a large entrepreneur or a large property developer, if this is implemented? And if he is not able to answer yes to that question, he can at least answer affirmatively that he will determine whether it may be a problem issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e259	When we investigate these questions, of course, we look at all aspects of the matter. As I have said, we believe that there may be both practical and principal weaknesses in today's organisation. We want to meet the majority in Stortinget and see if we can do this better for the future. The municipalities that still want to be responsible for surveying could have it. Where there is a basis for private surveying, they will have the opportunity to open up the proposals outlined by the majority of population.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e267	Then it looks as if Holmås was satisfied – and the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e275	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e290	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-03.ana.ud1269e345	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
