ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e28	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e36	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e41	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e57	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Bent Höie, Anders Anundsen and Linda C. Hofstad Helleland will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative of Torgeir Micaelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e66	The municipalities are the most important supplier of security in our country. They build and run schools to prepare the youngest in the population, and they have the primary responsibility for all those who need health and care services outside hospitals. This applies not least to care for the elderly, where we are completely dependent on good and warm care being organised in the municipalities. It is then essential that these municipalities be able to carry out the task we have jointly given them. Unfortunately, we have experienced on a number of occasions during this magnification period that the Right-Fremskrit Party government has chosen completely different main stakes than this. It's enough to mention that the taxes are now cut by almost 25 billion. kr. But this budget harvest has become even more serious. Not only is the government over three billion. behind what we in the Workers' Party have managed to prioritise in our alternative budget to the municipalities, among others. to care for the elderly. Just three weeks before Christmas, the municipalities do not know what to do with these important issues. It is, as everyone knows, total budget chaos on the civil side. And that's not all of the issues patients, users and municipalities don't know how to deal with them. Let me give you two concrete examples: has the government proposed for so-called resource-intensive services to users with high needs for assistance in municipalities? Should the municipalities be required to apply for physical therapy, as proposed by the government in the State budget? These are matters that are serious enough in themselves. The problem is that we do not know, now just three weeks before Christmas, what the municipalities are planning for. I say as Jonas Gahr Støre said yesterday: This is not how you rule a country. I want to hear the comments of the Minister of Health and Care and the Vice-President of the Right to this unsustainable situation the government has now put its municipalities in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e73	Firstly, government parties are working hard to find a solution to the budgetary situation. The size has set out its programme related to it, and this will mean that the financial situation is up to discussion on Monday, as planned. Then, too, after the financial position is finished, it's like the usual committees that decide and end up with some of these questions. But we see that the municipalities treat their budgets as normal. So I do not agree with the presentation that the representative gives in relation to what this government has prioritised. On the contrary, if you look at what the government has really used the big economic space for, it's two main purposes. One is to strengthen well-being through a strengthened community economy and through a strengthened hospital economy, and the other is to invest for the future by investing not least in infrastructure, transport – on building the country. That's where the really big money and the action space are spent by this government. Then I have a great hope that the government parties and the cooperation parties will also find solutions in the budget this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e78	Yes, I hear that there are several members of the government who still say they have a great hope of agreeing. We've heard that for weeks now, and we're now in overtime. I have given several examples of very specific issues that the municipalities of the country, on behalf of the patients and users who need to clarify these important questions, have still not received an answer. To put it a little simplified: the government now, with the Minister of Health and Health as a member, had eleven months to prepare the country's budget next year, while the most common budget date in the municipalities is December 8th, next week. So if we adopt the frameworks, maybe, on Monday, December 5 here in Stortinget, the municipalities will have a couple of days to talk about important areas where you don't know the questions. I say again that I think this is weak. I believe that the government must now show leadership and get out of the situation that it is now facing, not least on behalf of the patients for whom the Minister of Health and Health is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e87	I can reassure the representative that the government parties in Stortinget and the government are constantly working on finding good solutions. It is true that there is no new situation either that there are overtime negotiations in the State budget. We have had a long tradition in Norway with minority governments who have been addicted to negotiating the budget in Stortinget. That's also the situation now. We have a great hope and, of course, want to find solutions to this until the financial debate on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e92	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e97	It is not surprising that it is chaos when the Council of State does not recognize that it is chaos and a problem, and when the Council of State of the United Kingdom claims that all deadlines have now been met and that systematic work is now being done in the four parties. It is quite clear in Storting’s Rules of Procedure that ‘by 20 November at the latest, the Financial Committee shall give its opinion’. The reason why the Committee on Budgets has not given its opinion is that the Right, the Progress Party and the two supporting parties have asked for a deadline to be postponed once in a while, and now we are in a budgetary crisis. Does the Council of State Höie see that this puts local people elected throughout Norway in a very difficult position – that the government has not shown leadership, so that those who are going to make decisions locally do not know what framework they have to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e106	That there are deadlines that have been exceeded, I have not disputed in any way. What I've said is that we're working to find a solution. The day of Storting's decision on the framework is set to Monday, December 5, and that's what a worker is after. It is quite obvious to everyone, and not least to the government parties and the cooperation parties, that we should be able to find solutions in the past, but that is difficult. That's why we're still working on finding solutions to this. It is also the case that municipalities start their budgetary processes a long time before the Stortinget deals with the state budget. That's what one of them does. in the light of the Community proposal, adopted in May, precisely in order to give municipalities better conditions for planning. The municipalities also do not know exactly what the result is, until the financial situation is adopted, and before the Committee has finished its work before Christmas. Therefore, the municipalities have budgetary processes that take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e115	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e120	The representative of Micaelsen started with some forthcoming cuts in the municipalities, related to resource-intensive users as an example. But in cooperation, we have focused on looking at the possibilities in the health and care sectors in the municipalities. In the Primary Health Communication, we agreed that until 2020, we will focus on migration, welfare technology, innovation and a little follow-up to the Hagen Committee Innovation in Care. One of the key factors is to recruit several ergot therapists to the municipalities to carry out the conversion and adaptation work. It can't be so difficult to see to it that Ergotterapeuts are escalated up to 2020, as we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e126	No, it is under discussion in the Grand Duchy that the government has presented a rehabilitating plan as part of the budget proposal to be dealt with by the Health and Welfare Committee. There is the government's proposal that we allocate a total of 200 million in 2017. SEK to the municipalities – 100 million. kr has been earmarked – precisely in view of the fact that the government parties and the cooperation parties have agreed on, inter alia. to legislate the requirement of ergoterape competence in municipalities from 2020. This means that we have given municipalities both earmarked funds and increased the free resources to build up competence in the rehabilitation field. This includes, among other things: referenced to ergot monkeys. I fully agree with the representative that a solution to the challenges we face, including: in the care of the elderly, it is about the ergot therapist’s competence to help people to master their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e131	Burd Vegard Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e136	Although the nation will survive next year too, there is an unusually chaotic situation now, and he creates an uncertain community in his work with, for example, the local authorities. care and care; not water. If a budget is adopted on 5 December, it is unusually late, but now it is also possible that there will not be a multiple for a government budget on 5 December. I understand that the government's plan A is, of course, working on a bomb to get it done, but I assume that they must also be forbidden to use the last week that it is possible that it does not happen. Then my question is, how will the government prepare a whole central institution, which will plan and get things into next year, on the possibility that they can't manage to get a government budget with multiple figures in the Stortinget on December 5th?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e143	What we're working on is finding a good solution. When it comes to questions about alternatives, it's not my role to answer them. When it comes to the local authorities' situation, it's like I've been a local politician myself when a former local government had a minority government, and then I had a lot of negotiations that went on overtime. But the municipalities managed to handle it then, and I think the municipalities can handle it now. Of course, although it is not a desirable situation, not from the government, the Stortinget or the municipalities, it is something that Norway can handle. We've done that before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e148	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e153	On 29 September this year, Jonas Gahr Støre and I were at the Colåshemmet residence and treatment centre in Bærum, where we met leaders and politicians who were deeply concerned that the investment grant had been changed. In the Political Quarter the next day, 30 September, I heard the Health Minister calm the municipalities and say that of course you should get money to renovate after 2021 if you build a new one. In the Question Time on 16 November, the Minister for Health said diametrically that only the new places to be built can be supported. This makes it worse for us both in Stortinget and for the municipalities. Who are the municipalities to listen to – the Minister of Health in Political Quarter, or the Minister of Health in Question Time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e160	The municipalities are wise to listen to both the Minister of Health and read what is in the proposition, which is my response to the Storting in this area. It is clear that municipalities will also receive money for rehabilitation for projects they are applying for before 2021. This is simply a result of the recordings that have come from the municipalities, among other things. We'll carry the municipality. It has extended the period beyond what was announced in the municipal bill. From 2021 onwards, municipalities will only receive investment aid for several sites. This is simply because the government believes that the elderly in Norway do not have time for the Labour Party's waiting-and-see attitude in older policy. There is a great need to increase the activity of expanding several sites. The municipalities have now had many years to rehabilitate places, they are given extended time to do so. But from 2021 we have to focus on building more spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e165	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e170	The most fundamental thing a country has to do with is the preparedness and security of people. In the last year, there has been a lot of unrest around the police, and resources have been used to reorganize, centralize and red tape. The processes in which the police are involved are very energy-intensive and have gone beyond daily operations, and the local preparedness has been weakened by the great centralisation we are now witnessing. The government's so-called near-police reform has become the opposite: a remote police reform with unrest, little predictability and torches all around the country. One thing is that there is concern about the remote police, or the so-called near-police reform, but now there is also concern about whether the country will have a budget. During a month before the Stortinget will end the harvest session, we do not know whether the country will have a budget and what framework the budget may have. So this also creates concern for the country's preparedness. My question to the Council of State Anundsen is: Can the Council of States assure us that the police and emergency services will have the necessary appropriations and resources so that they can solve their important emergency tasks in January 2017, even if there is not a budget majority on Monday?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e179	Let me start by saying that I fundamentally disagree with the description given by the representative of the near-police reform. Firstly, it seems to me to be rather forward-looking to conclude that the near-police reform, which is now under implementation, has led to a remote police force. There's nothing to suggest, and it's -- to say it very mildly -- a shooting of a result that we're working very hard to avoid being the case. We're going to have more police out, we're going to have more police that give a better result for most people. Since the change of government, there are now 746 more policemen than it was when Battle Violence Vedum's party was in government. I also feel that the concern about the reform – as it is claimed to be there – is very small. Of course, all reforms create commitment, and it's important that people contribute and express what they think should be the outcome of a process. It's very positive, it's a very fundamental part of our democracy. I don't think we should fear that, we should cultivate that, that's good. But this is how the municipalities now experience – based on the feedback I have received, among other things. from KS – that the processes are good, that one is involved, that one ensures that one is actually a contributor to the process currently taking place. In the case of the State budget, the government presented its draft State budget in accordance with the plan, on 6 October. Then there are negotiations in the Great Britain. In this respect, I can refer to the Council of State Höie said instead that it is now the Stortinge that is negotiating a budget. As a responsible government, we are preparing for all kinds of scenarios. But it is also Storting's responsibility to help us land a budget. I feel pretty sure that we do. Of course, if this is not to happen against any assumption, both accumulation and government must jointly solve that challenge, so that we do not get into a situation where there is uncertainty both in the preparedness context and in all other public operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e188	Thanks to the chaos we have seen between the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party, the deadline has been postponed on this house – unfortunately. That shouldn't have happened. Now it's happened, and it does, if you don't get a budget majority on Monday, we don't have time to put in another budget majority before Christmas. Thanks to the lack of leadership of Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Minister of Finance Siv Jensen, Norway is going to be without a budget, in fact. The Norwegian budgetary system and the Constitution are such that we adopt budgetary appropriations for one year at a time under the Constitution § 75. Then is my question to the responsible State Council and Minister of Emergency Anders Anundsen: What plan does the government have if there is not a budget majority Monday evening, to ensure that our emergency units are up and going and have the necessary resources and appropriations also in January and February 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e196	Nor do I agree with the representative's starting point for the question. It's sometimes that democratic processes are demanding, that it takes time. There is nothing new in Norwegian constitutional history, nor in Norwegian political history. The fact that you have demanding budget negotiations with minority governments is very common. I have great faith in democracy and great faith in democratic processes, and I am absolutely sure that it will also lead to a good result this time. I will not foreshadow that one does not reach agreement, rather, on the contrary, I have the opposite starting point: I am convinced that we are able to find a solution to this, so that we do not get into a situation where one must implement exceptional measures to have a budget. But if we are going to get into that situation, I am also sure that the Storing and the government will jointly solve that challenge, so that we do not get into a situation that challenges state operations in January, both in terms of preparedness and state operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e201	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e206	An important aspect of good preparedness is safe and stable rental. So it's about readiness to plan for things not to go all the way you'd have thought, and what to do then. We now feel that the government council responsible for the country's preparedness is standing here and saying that he thinks it's going to be okay, it's going to be fine, it's going to be okay with the budget. I would like to remind you that the country is now an ongoing meeting, except that we have a situation where there is no plurality of government budget proposals. So my question is, can the Council say anything about the consequences if the country does not have a budget for preparedness? And can the Council of State guarantee that whatever the outcome of the budgetary process, it will not compromise the security and preparedness of the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e215	It is not the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Security to tell the Stortinget what happens if the Stortinget does not agree on a budget within the time limits set. That has been the case, if I don't remember mistakes, twice before, right before the budget model we now have, and then there are different ways to solve it. It has commented on the media today, including the possibility of having an operational authorisation to maintain the operation of the State. I can only stress what I said also on the previous question, that we are preparing to deal with any situation, and ensure that we are as good as raw as possible so that we do not get into a situation that goes beyond both preparedness and other public operations. I would also like to stress that I am a democrat both in my heart and in my soul and believe that this will find its good solution within the democratic framework of which the Stortinget is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e224	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e229	The Minister of Justice is part of a government that is involved in writing great history, perhaps not in the way that the government itself hoped for, but we see a budgetary chaos that has no other equivalent in the history of the whole of Great Britain, challenging both the progress and the rules of procedure and the predictability of how to deal with those kinds of questions. My question follows up the question from the Central Party, because what we hear is that the Council of State is a democrat – okay, that he has clarified it to this assembly – and that he has good hopes that this will be done, and that the Storting will come to a solution, but what I want to know is what is the plan of the Council of State for the police, for the preparedness, if the budget is not decided in time for one from 1 January 2017 to know how the money will be disposed of? What's the plan? There must be a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e236	Let me first stress that it is not the government that adopts the budget. It is the Storting that adopts the budget, and it is in the Storing that these processes are now in progress. Of course, the government is helping with everything we can to ensure that these processes land as well as possible. The negotiations are actually taking place in Stortinget, and I think that is something the representative of Tajik must respect. That's where the solution to the actual challenges is going to be. We must assume that one finds the solution that enables us to continue to operate independently of whether or not a budget has been adopted, should one come into such a situation. But I am quite convinced that both the government parties and the cooperation parties are doing what they can to ensure that we have a budget by the end of the year. If it doesn't, we have some constitutional history of how it can be solved, and I am absolutely sure that the Storting will be able to handle without the Minister of Justice instructing them or telling them how to solve it. There's a lot of good competence on this. For our daily operations, we are prepared for both, and we have to adapt to the situation that is the result of the processes that are going on in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e245	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e250	My question goes to the Minister of Health. «Here comes the winter, here comes the cold fine time.» Lina is taken from the rock song «Here comes the winter» by the eminent Jokke & Valentines. Unfortunately, many people experience it cold, fine time as a melancholy, direct health hazard and anything but fine. The air pollution problems, especially in the larger cities, are the same over the years as the seasons. This week the high pollution warning went to a number of locations. Over a million people are here and now exposed to air that goes on fire. For asthmatics and people with other respiratory diseases and people with serious heart disease, the warning of high air pollution means that they should reduce outdoor activities and not stop in the most polluted areas. One of the most pressing problems facing municipalities is the lack of tools to put in place effective measures to reduce the problem. A very accurate measure is called low-emission zones. The majority made its first decision on this in March 2015 – almost two years ago. Unfortunately, the government has not translated this into practical action. Action, or in this case lack of action, usually says more than fine words and speeches. My question to the Minister is this: What is the Minister's answer to all those who are again exposed to a high health risk and who have poorer quality of life due to high air pollution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e263	It is absolutely right that air quality is of great importance to people's health, and I believe that the government and not least our cooperation parties are doing a lot to improve the air quality of our cities. That's why one, for example. high levels of rail and public transport, environmentally friendly fuels and new technological solutions. It's about giving people an alternative to the car without reducing mobility, and I think you've shown very clearly that it's a priority. It is quite right that the Stortinget has adopted a proposal on the law on low-emission zones before the summer. This is a work going on in the Ministry of Transport, and it is the Minister of Transport who is constitutionally responsible for that proposal. But it is clear that this is also an important health issue, and I can assure you that this work is a high priority in the Ministry of Transport and in the Minister of Transport, so that you can get that matter done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e270	I understand, of course, that things need to take some time to ensure defensive handling. Nor is there any doubt that the Minister of Health is taking the problems seriously, which he has now confirmed by agreeing that the simplest and cheapest measure to deal with air pollution is to prevent it by making it more attractive to use transport methods other than those based on fossil energy. In this way, it is incomprehensible that the Minister and Government propose in their proposal to the 2017 government budget to shed almost 1 billion. kr for the benefit of fossil vehicles. Yes, not only that, but this is so important to the government that they make it an unmistakable claim to their cooperation party – as an ultimatum. That a Minister of Transport from the Progress Party can find logic in something like this, is one thing, but why a Minister of Health from Right supports such a use of money and such a priority, I hope the Minister is willing to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e276	Firstly, I believe that there are a number of good proposals in the State budget that contribute to what I said in my first answer, namely finding alternative transport options, which are not based on car transport – which has large emissions – while maintaining the mobility of the population. But the government is also concerned that Norway looks different in Oslo than at my home in the West and at the representative’s place of residence. Therefore, it is also important that when implementing the type of green shift that we agree on and that is also in the state budget, it is important to take into account and take care of those affected by this, where a framework of mobility, where a local business environment is affected. That is why the government has tried to balance this in our draft government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e281	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e286	Local air pollution makes sick people sicker, and you're in danger of making healthy people sick. This is not a small challenge; in fact, it is so serious that Norway has been convicted by the EFTA Court of Justice of infringements of the EU air quality directive. Local politicians in the largest cities – in Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø – are committed to getting the government involved to meet these challenges. In Tromsø they are little impressed that the Council refers to the maintenance budget on the railway, they want measures to remedy this situation. My question to the Council of State is whether he recognises local air pollution as a health problem. What has the government done, and what will be done with the local politicians, who want tools and action to improve the air quality of our cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e293	Yeah, obviously. Not only do I recognise this as a health problem, it does even the whole government and also our cooperation parties. This is precisely why one has invested not only on the railway but also on a number of other measures that will be of great importance. The municipalities may, for example: building safer walking and cycling routes, and municipalities can improve the provision of collective transport and contribute to less use of cars. This is where the state stands up more than ever, for example. to take 50 pst. of the major investment costs of major public transport projects in the four largest cities. At the same time, significant funds have been allocated to other measures contributing to mobility without such emissions. There are also many other instruments that are now being worked with in the Ministry of Transport. One of those measures is low-emission zones, which were not prioritised by the previous government, but which are now working to put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e298	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e303	With all due respect, the Council of State cannot stand here and say that the work on low-emission zones is the priority of this government. When we first adopted something in March 2016, which the Minister for Transport refused to follow up, we had to adopt a separate bill. When the Minister of Transport sent this out at the hearing, the proposal for low-emission zones meant that it was not possible to put it into use in Bergen or Oslo, through the restrictions that were there. Misinformation to the Storing or concealment of reality is not right. Last winter, Erna Solberg was in school right here because we had another winter meeting where we had no legislation for low-carbon zones or for environmentally-differentiated charges, and where nothing had been done with the sweatshirt. We're still here, and we don't have any of these tools in place. Therefore, my question is: can the Council of State Höie assure us that he will be the driver to ensure that low-emission zones are put in place and for the municipalities of Oslo the opportunity to fivefold the tariffs in emergency situations this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e310	I have answered questions about this earlier, in the ordinary Question Time, and the Minister for Transport has answered questions about this repeatedly. The size is assured that the work on this regulation is a high priority in the Ministry of Transport. It is a regulation which must be subject to the same quality-related work, inter alia. consultation, such as other legislative and regulatory work. It's done too. The regulation has been in consultation, and it is now being implemented. I would like to remind the representative that he himself was a member of a government that had the exact same proposal on the table in 2012, who chose to scrape the proposal and pointed out that the municipalities had other means to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e317	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e322	In the summer many «Skibladner» followed minutes by minutes between Gjøvik, Lillehammer and Hamar. The top story on Uppland Arbeiderblad’s website yesterday was: ‘Here you can follow the air pollution in Gjøvik – minute by minute.’ The sweatshirt is high in record, and here is the same challenge for Hamar and Lillehammer. This is no longer just a big city challenge. Tomorrow, the Health and Welfare Committee will give its opinion on tobacco legislation. It might be the most stringent tobacco legislation in the world. My question is whether the Council of State has equal ambitions for air pollution, because it is becoming a major public health challenge for many with asthma and allergy challenges, but also for many with cardiovascular diseases and even for those with diabetes. We have to do something about this: does the Council of State have as high ambitions to do something about air pollution as about tobacco legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e329	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative is drawing up the work that is now under way in the Committee on the Tobacco Injury Act. I am also pleased that we have submitted a proposal for treatment in the Stortinget that will again move Norway forward in terms of the work on the consequences of tobacco and to get one of the world's most severe tobacco scandals back. So air pollution is an important public health problem also in Norway. Although the challenges are greater in other countries, not least in periods in Norway when it is cold and quiet, it is also a problem in our cities. Therefore, it is now also working to make the municipalities even better able to handle such situations. The Ministry of Transport assesses environmental-differentiated tolls, a common legal basis for urban road procurement and the work on the regulation that I have explained earlier. Today, municipalities also have a number of tools that they can use if they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e338	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e344	The Minister of Health points out that the challenges of air pollution in cities have been addressed – you work on the matter, you are aware that the previous government has not done things, etc. But it is such that the regulation on low-emission zones has spent so long that it probably does not apply this year either, and the work on differentiated tolls is unlikely to result in useful results until after the election. Meanwhile, according to the Public Health Institute, 185 people die prematurely because of suspended particulate matter only in Oslo, and in addition, all the other cities come. Is the Minister of Health satisfied with the efforts he has made to save people from death and disease due to car-induced air pollution in cities during the three years he has been in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e351	Firstly, I am very pleased with the efforts made by the government, along with our cooperation parties, in the three budgets adopted to date, for a significant investment and new solutions to help people choose more environmentally friendly transport solutions. It is a historic effort that involves a green shift, which is important for the environment, but which is also important for the health of the population, and it is a work that I am proud of. At the same time, we have to recognise that there is still a long way to go, and that is why we are also working hard on new solutions in this area. So it's like that now there's actually one month left of this year -- it's been underlined several times in previous questions under -- but we're now working to get the regulation in place as quickly as possible, and it's high priority in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e358	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e363	My question goes to the media minister Linda C. Hofstad Helleland. Norway has long been a country with high trust and strong communities. One important reason is that we have had strong media that have represented a lack, but also created common references and a common public. Public broadcasters such as NRK, later TV 2 and P4, large quality newspapers such as VG, Evening Post, Newspaper and several strong local viewers with a similar function, have created a combination of public information and public opinion. One should be careful to exaggerate, but this is now challenged, perhaps threatened, more than anything in recent times. Income streams have been moved, reader and viewer habits changed, media houses will cut in minutes, so at a rather fast pace. It's not a crisis for journalism or a lot of information. Good intermediaries are many of them, new channels of communication are emerging, but it is similar to a crisis for strong institutions with great resources and heavy competences, driven by the editor’s poster, which can remove light and quality-proof information. It's a serious challenge for the big common debaters to make an informed public possible. I fear a gradual progress towards getting our information first and foremost from those who are already with us, and that our facts and our point of view are becoming more and more different. It can weaken democracy over time. It is definitely not the government that is responsible for it, but the policy's task is, of course, often to solve problems created by social development. So if the councils of state agree with my reality description, what strategy does the government follow to deal with this big societal challenge we're in the middle of?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e374	I share the reality description of the representative, Mr Solhjell, and I agree with most of it, I think, as the representative said. Here we have a situation for the media houses in Norway, for the media diversity, which is developing quite dramatically, and that happens quickly. What is difficult for us politically, who are concerned about taking care of a media diversity, is knowing the answer to what is right to do. For changes happens so dramatically quickly, and no one else comes up with a clear answer to what is right to do. That is why I look forward to submitting a big message before Christmas that deals with the financing of the NRK. I and the government are concerned that we should have a strong public broadcaster in this country, but we are also concerned that we should have a commercial public broadcaster that also participates in and improves our public broadcasting. That is why I also come with a big message that deals with a commercial public broadcaster. But in addition, we also have all the newspapers, and I'm worried when I see how their circulation figures are going. Some are well-informed about conversion, innovation, innovation, and it's a pleasure to visit some of the media houses that now see that the number of online subscriptions goes up very quickly, but there are also very, very many newspapers that are struggling. There I am concerned that we can look at modern media support that makes them have good conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e383	I am happy the council shares my reality description, and it is very good that there are issues about NRK and TV 2 before Christmas. Something else would be very unwise, all the time the Storting has decided that things will come before Christmas. But what I asked for was a strategy. To use a chess reference, a strategy is a plan for how many moves will be made in time. What I'm probably missing a little bit in the answer, was a description of what the state council will do in addition to what the state council has ordered the state council to do with NRK and TV 2. What kind of grip can you take to increase the digitisation of our many local ways? It's a huge challenge for them. Other countries have introduced innovation support. What models could a person think of ensuring increased contributions from the big international players who are making a lot of money on this media development? How can we in other ways think of a different and better use of all the economic resources we use? Let me ask you this: what was the grip of NRK and TV 2 planning the government council for the next year to follow up the challenge that she's totally in agreement with is big?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e392	I would like to remind you that a few months ago, the representative Solhjell and I agreed that there was an initiative the government was going to include in the issues related to commercial public broadcasting. Now there's a big message, I'm glad, and I also look very forward to how the Storting is going to deal with it. When I'm out visiting the media houses, and when they're visiting me, for example. as Amedia was a few weeks ago, they say that the best thing that has happened to them is precisely what the government has done by increasing non-discrimination of the media by introducing VAT exemptions for electronic news media and platform neutral production subsidies. One year effect of what we did with zero moms is 350 million. kr i support. It is precisely the measure that the government put in place after the red-green government said it was not possible, namely to introduce zero VAT, which has now really created a completely different dynamics in many media houses. So it's like we just put down a media diversity selection to give us some answers as to what we can do to think in the long term, and what strategy it's right to choose to take care of the media diversity. They come with their position on 1 March, and then we will continue to work on it to respond to the representative's request.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e404	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e409	Local and regional newspapers throughout the country greatly reduce the number of journalists, and we also see that the large media houses lay down their regional offices and retire in Oslo, VG as the last out. The NRC has also been criticised for very little reflecting what is happening in other parts of the country. So the situation we're in is divided by two. We've had a sharp decline in journalism outside Oslo, and we've got a national, public conversation that is increasingly centered around Oslo/Capital State Publicity. This increases polarization, increases the distance between the capital and the rest of the country, and represents the beginning of a democratic problem. So my question is, how does the government meet this development, and what will the government do to strengthen the journalistic environment outside Oslo and in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e416	I am very pleased with this question, because it is important that we think about a media diversity that we also have media clusters or strong media environments around the country. It's Stortinget's concern, and that's also the government's very concerned, not least when we're talking about establishing a commercial public broadcaster outside Oslo. I would like to follow closely what the outcome of the negotiations will be, after the wholesale communication on commercial public broadcasts is presented to Stortinget. But local guides around Norway are standing strong today, fortunately. For the government, this is important to maintain, and the local authorities also tell us, that the most important thing for them is opportunities for conversion, innovation and innovation that make them catch up with younger readers and get them online. Fortunately, we now see a very positive development that that's exactly what happens to the locals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e421	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e428	Although today’s Minister of Culture has few or no measures for a media industry in crisis, at least the government through the budgetary chaos that is now taking place has made sure that the media have plenty to write about. The government's lack of action was described as such by the Norwegian Journalist team in their budget input: ‘Unfortunately, important parts of media policy are being outsourced to the Media Diversity Committee. To the extent that the Council of State takes active action, the negatives that cut the press support and freeze the NRK licence are.’ These are proposals that the government has made many times. The Minister of Culture has not been able to arrange for agreements with commercial public broadcasters, and the poor management of Saturday newspapers by the government has made it worse for many local authorities. Why is it that the Minister of Culture says that we have to wait for the Media Diversity Committee every time someone makes proposals that can be positive for the media industry, while she has almost no time to lose in terms of proposals that can be negative for the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e442	While the last thing the red-green government did before they left the offices was to say that it was completely impossible to introduce zero-VAT, which was a total demand from the media industry, this government has actually managed to put it in place. That's the most important thing that the industry says we could have done, and so they're also very happy that it's in place, because it contributes to innovation. Then I have taken an initiative towards my Nordic media counterparts and the big media houses to sit down in a media summit to see what we can do – that is, across the Nordic region – because we have a lot of the same challenges. There are no simple solutions. That's why the government put down the Media Diversity Committee, so they'd come up with an idea of what's right to do. I don't meet anyone, except one representative, one person, who has simple solutions to it. It's the representative of Grande, who clearly says that this is just solving overnight. Unfortunately, it's more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e449	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e454	It's probably true that very few of the challenges to the media industry can be solved overnight, but there are also very few of them that can be solved by an ever-present presence of the Stortinge with good talk of big business messages and media summits of different places in different capitals. There are some issues that are quite specific, and that one should be able to go further, and I want to ask the Council a little about that problem. It's about the locals. The big thing has decided that people living in the districts should get local guides on Saturdays as well. When the post office seems to have no problem delivering the newspapers from Monday to Friday, the government has awarded a tender to a company called Kvikkas, which does not seem to be able to deliver the newspapers on Saturday. It makes many locals bleed. They get a complaint storm without equal, there are thousands of subscribers who don't get their newspapers. So far, the Minister of Transport of the Council of State has been a little willing to do something. Will the Minister for Media, on behalf of the local authorities, ensure that the Minister for Transport makes the necessary changes here and, if necessary, cancels the tender made with Kvikkas, which is currently harmful to Norwegian local authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e459	The post distributes newspapers in subscriptions on Saturdays. From now on, newspapers have to be delivered using the newspapers’ own newspapers, and non-news shopping areas have concluded this agreement with Kvikkas. Norway is the only country in the Nordic region with a system of state aid for newspaper distribution. I recently got a phone call from a person in Hallingdal who had subscribed to the Class struggle and the Saturday edition of the Evening Post for many, many years, and who was now completely confused, because while the Class struggle has a common distribution with Hallingdøl and you get that Saturday morning, is not the case with the Evening Post. That's why there's also a little bit up to the media houses how they handle this. The reason why this is done is that the post volume is falling sharply. Now we see that Kvikkas has delivered much better results only in a short time, and I think this is a scheme that will come into place well afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e464	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e470	I'm very happy that the Council of State really fences around the zero-mom. All the government parties have been against zero VAT for the past 12 years, but we were given a decision in Stortinget to implement it, which has been an important step. Our media policy is about freedom of expression, but it is also about education. Today's media delivery, with logarithms, siling information where you only get the information that might already confirm your own position – all of this seems to me to give a somewhat scary perspective on Media-Norway. When we are going to create a media policy for a new digital everyday life, the education perspective must also be an important part of it – that we all need to be challenged and resist our already given truths and opinions. The question is, when will the Council of State now present these messages, will the education perspective be important? And will it also be an important part of having a broad media policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e480	First I want to say that once again I want to give all the honor to the Left because they didn't give in their fight for the zero-mom. It's very good, and there are a lot of Norwegian media houses and newspapers that are very happy, because that's exactly what helps them. So the interesting question that I fully agree with is an important part of our media diversity challenges -- how to ensure that we are met with voices other than those who agree with ourselves. I hope that will be possible, even after we get input from the media diversity committee, to which I will once again refer, on how we can ensure Norwegian-produced journalistic content. It is important for us to contribute with State aid, but also for a multiplicity of debate which means that we not only sit and censor ourselves but also other voices are being expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e486	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e490	There is a lot of good police work being done around Norway, but 2016 has also given us many examples that the staff in the districts are too low. The Gardermoen threatens to close its passport control this summer. In Bergen, over a year, a large group of drugs has been seized. This summer the police also had a full trailer driver from Poland run 17 miles without stopping him, because they had no patrol to send. In Oslo, special funds had to be allocated in the year’s budget because of increasing juvenile delinquency, as a result of low staffing. An important reason for this is also a high budget framework. We record that the council itself agrees that there is something wrong with a place. He went out in the last week and said he'd get external advisors to see how the money's going to turn out. The councils make this a never-ending mystery. But what the money's going to be spent is in the budget. For example, for police and prosecution authorities, one looks. at 1.45 b.w. So I'm going to go to the pension, I'm going to go to 398 million. kr goes to wage and price growth, and then one is left with 412 million. kr, which may go to the police for free means of operation. Among other things, the police forum magazine has repeatedly documented that these funds are quickly tied up in the Police Directorate instead of going to the local police force. My question is, how has the Council of State actually managed to rule for three years without ensuring that the money he gives to the police actually ends up going to the local police force?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e502	I am afraid the representative Tajik is mistaken in the premises for the question. If you look at what has actually happened since the government change, there are 742 more police officers on October 1st this year, there are 119 more lawyers than when Tajik's party put in government, and there are 1,524 more police officers in total. And in order to prevent the follow-up question of bureaucracy, I would say that there are over 270 people working together in the Directorate of Police. So there's been a formidable growth in police power and capacity. But at the same time, the tasks of the police have also grown. Among other things, when it comes to organised questioning, in particular about violence and child abuse, the police have had to use a lot of capacity to deal with the growth that I think both Tajik and we believe is a joyful growth in the number of reviews and the number of cases in this area. I think it's a little amazing, maybe, but it's possible that I've read the Workers' Party's alternative state budget wrong, that they, I think, have about 10 billion. kr more to go with in their alternative budget, while they spend more than 100 million. I want to strengthen the police. This must indicate that the Tajik party is not very dissatisfied with the starting point proposed by the government for growth in the police budget, and I understand that, because it is a good police budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e508	When it comes to the investigation of where the money is going, I think that all state agencies from time to time should sit down and get an external review of whether a person is using the resources assigned to him in the most efficient way possible. We've experienced in several different situations that one might have a potential for improvement here. I am most concerned with results and less concerned with prestige.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e511	It is unlikely that the Council of State is marketing the Workers' Party's alternative budget, and it is absolutely right that it is 150 million. kr more to the Labour Party police than from this government. I can also record that largely what is going on, whether the previous government's debt or an underlying budget. Governments can do nothing but hire people who can see how to allocate blame and responsibility. Something else I have noticed is that in the period 2014-2015, the Council of State has indicated 77 pst. by the police budget. The following years have not changed significantly. Compared with Grete Faremo, Knut Storberget and Odd Einar Dørum respectively 46 pst., 50 pst. and 44 pst. – a significant difference from today’s Council of State, with its 77 pst earmarks. So my question is, why does he touch the police so much? Does he not trust their priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e523	I'm not going to discuss alternative budgetary matters with the representative, but I think the representative has to look at net figures if she's going to look at real growth in the police. Well, at least as far as I've read, it's not 150 million. kr, but a significantly lower amount. But we can discuss that outside this room. Nor is it right to launch any studies on how resource use and distribution actually take place should be some form of disclaimer. Rather, on the contrary, I believe it is my responsibility to carry out such evaluations and reviews in order to ensure that we are able to deal with future challenges in the best possible way. Those ringings are probably due to the fact that we have had major challenges in the Norwegian police, and it has been important for the government to be clear about what are necessary areas of action. Some of the ringings have come on a government proposal, but some of the ringings have come after conciliation, including in Stortinget. It is important that we have enough resources and capacity in the police to solve the challenges we have, and I am glad that the Workers' Party seems to be essentially supporting the framework we have set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e534	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e539	It may seem that all the questions that the Council of State has received today have the wrong premise — in the opinion of the Council of State. Or we might say that he gets questions that he doesn't want or can't answer. It may seem that there is no budgetary chaos, so there is a chaos of results in the Minister's department. The Minister therefore picks up external advisers to check that the money disposal is the responsibility of the Minister, is followed up by the department as the Minister has said, in the department the minister is the top manager of — more bureaucracy and less management. Does this mean that the Council of State has no confidence either in its own managerial capacity or that its own Heads of the Agency, for which the Minister is responsible, follow up the signals given by the Council of State in budgetary processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e546	That question has already been answered by my two answers to the previous representative. It's because we're concerned with the good, practical results, but there's no doubt you've seen that the police over time have been starved by the former government. There is a huge lag in many, many areas, among other things. ICT and innovation, which create major challenges and which cannot be solved by just a few budgets, but which are part of a long-term effort. So I also disagree this time in the premise of the question, to use that term, simply because I mean the most important thing here is to find the good, practical results -- much more important than any kind of achievement. I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party criticises that we're doing this. I had actually thought that this would be applauded by the opposition, because this is something that will also be an important basis for how we will finance the near-police reform in the future – and that is what we are together about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e553	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e558	We're about to get a more high-ranking police force, and the challenges are on the line. We've heard of insecurity attached to passport control on Gardermoen, growth in the Police Directorate, concern in the police about the resource situation. We've heard stories that the police are looking at serious crime, but they've been ordered not to intervene. Today we hear that all the questions from the opposition have the wrong premise. We know that the Council of State has not been satisfied with the coverage of the free press of his government council. My question is: is the Council of State now considering recording a new information film on the situation in the police, and will he take with him local policemen, who may be allowed to tell about their everyday life after three years with the Progress Party in the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e565	It was probably an attempt to be a little fun – and you can try it from time to time. But I also think that the premise for this issue should be thoroughly reviewed, because it is assumed that the police are now getting more heavy, that there is less police force out there, and that resources are a challenge. I agree that we will always need more resources in the Norwegian police force. I don't think we ever get into a situation where the police will be brilliantly satisfied with the level of funding. I would like to point out, in order not to stand here and discuss the premises for my own budget, to the reaction of the Police Union when the government presented its budget – they said the government is making a flash. It is at least an indication that we are taking the signals from the local police seriously, and that we are implementing measures to ensure that we are following up the challenges we are actually looking out there. Those who wear the shoe are also the ones who know where the shoe is pressing. That is why the government in the draft budget has focused on listening to those signals. That's what Pollestad's party should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e572	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e586	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, by Mr Karianne O. Heavy to the Prime Minister, transferred to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. At the request of the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, the question will be moved and answered before question 21, which is answered by the same Council of State. Question 2, from the representative of Hadia Tajik to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance. Question 9, from the representative of Mr Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 11, from the representative Anna Ljunggren to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who will direct him. Question 24, from the representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e605	We start with the first question, which after these changes becomes question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e613	This question, from the representative of Hadia Tajik to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e618	My question is: ‘My Prime Minister, it is fair that a typical low-income family will end up with a tax cut of approx. $15,200, as a result of the government's priorities, while a typical high-income family will end up with more than twice as much; $34,600, and think it's fair that the real rich families, with a total income over $9 million. crowns, get almost 10 times as much as this on the treasure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e625	It's quite right, as the representative Tajik says, that low-income families have been taxed with this government. I think that's what they're experiencing. But the low income families have received more than lower taxes. In the last three years, this government has provided more measures to ensure a simpler and safer everyday life for these families. We have proposed significant improvements to the housing support system to create an economically safer everyday life for many thousands of families. We have provided more reasonable childcare space for low-income families and a national free core time scheme in kindergarten for all children – in low-income families – from the age of three. We have taken the initiative to have all children, regardless of their parents' finances, participate in at least one organized leisure activity together with others. We have increased the scholarship rate for students from low-income families. We have made it possible for young people to have greater income without meaning reduced social welfare for their parents. These are some measures that give low-income families a better and safer everyday life. Government policy is to preserve a society of small differences and to reduce the number of children and families living in poverty. That is why this government launched a strategy against child poverty — the first of its kind — with 64 different measures to reduce child poverty. I therefore believe that the tax relief to which the representative Tajik refers does not give an overall picture of the government's work for a safe, good and inclusive society with relatively small differences, high employment and good growth capacity. Nor should we forget that Norway is a country where income is distributed more evenly than in many other countries. The government's tax policy does not change that picture. Only 14 pst. the government’s operating rooms have gone to tax reductions. The rest of the space for action is a priority for strengthening the social security network, for schools and education, for better health care and the development of transport across the country. The changes in taxes to which the government has contributed have not had a significant effect on income inequality and the Norwegian tax system is significantly redistributive both before and after tax reliefs during that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e636	The finance minister is quite right that low-income families also experience things other than the tax cuts that I have referred to here. For example, they're at risk. to experience a cut in holiday pay for the unemployed, cut in commuting deductions and tax on termination benefits. There's a whole bunch of changes from this government that also have consequences for exactly these families. So I've allowed myself to look at some of the polls - there will be some selection studies in this country that are quite detailed - that show that about 40 pst. by the Minister of Finance's own voters are in low-income families, while 40 pst. by the right-hand voters belong to high-income families. When one sees at the same time that the government is leading a policy that brings the high-income families to the benefit of those degrees, I'm curious what the Minister of Finance wants to say to his own voters, who are the ones who come out with their government's policies the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e643	I do not agree with that. I think it is important, when we are implementing tax reform and tax reduction, that tax relief is relatively evenly distributed. They have been in all the budgetary proposals that this government has put forward. Most people experience relief, and very few stand still in view of the relief. It is also a very important premise in terms of taxes, that the main function of the tax system is not in itself to be redistributive, but to redistribute through the way we finance welfare schemes in our society. It is the tax revenue that enables us to stick with good, universal welfare schemes and systems that are targeted and that meet those who need it. It's the most important function of the tax system. In addition, the tax system shall stimulate activity, work, saving, value creation and employment. And maybe one of the most important things we do is to make sure that more people get into work, and so on comes out of a low-income situation, which can be demanding for many families.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e650	Here we see a fundamental political disunity: the Labour Party believes that one must also use the tax system clearly, and the tax cuts policy that this government has pursued is clearly socially unfair when ordinary people get $5 a day in tax cuts, while those who have a lot of money from before get $2,100 in tax cuts every day. At the same time, I note that the Minister of Finance emphasises the employment effect of tax cuts, i.e. that it helps to lay a better basis for value creation. I can agree with the Minister of Finance that whether one is inside or outside the labour market, it has a lot to say about what kind of commitments you have for self-employment, freedom, opportunities and income base. But then I wonder, how many people have tax cuts to the Minister of Finance got into the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e657	It is probably right that the Labour Party and the government parties are fundamentally in disagreement with the need to reduce taxes in Norway. Where this government has provided tax relief on the other side of 18 billion. kr within the adopted 2016 budget, the Workers' Party has proposed to tighten up taxes. It is an honest matter to criticize the government for having had too few tax cuts, but with the Labour Party's arrangements they would have been reversed, and people would have experienced higher taxes and taxes. That is the fundamental difference between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties. It must be possible to do more than one thing at a time: we must be concerned about having a well-functioning tax system that also stimulates increased activity and value creation. At least there is no doubt that if we do not have a competitive tax system, companies will establish themselves elsewhere than in Norway. There won't be any more jobs. What we need now is competitiveness, which means that we get more and not fewer jobs and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e667	‘The main economic distinction goes between those inside and those out of work. Under this government, the unemployment rate has increased by 30 pst. The proportion of persons employed is the lowest of 20 years. Almost no jobs are created in the private sector. In October, the Minister of Finance said that the unemployment peak has been reached, but recent data from the SSB and Nav show that the unemployment rate has fallen at a record high level in the last year. When can the unemployed in the West expect that the government’s tax cuts to the richest contribute to the creation of new jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e674	It is in itself gratifying that the Workers' Party now seems to recognise that the main economic distinction is between those inside and those outside the labour market. Reduced activity in petroleum-related industries has led to higher unemployment. The working party often starts its party speeches by saying that the government cannot be blamed for the oil price fall, but then they follow up on blaming the government for the consequences of the oil price fall. What this government is doing is converting the Norwegian economy from a situation where the oil economy has been the largest engine of growth to an economy where growth has to be created in other parts of the economy. Then tax relief is an important contribution. I do not know exactly what taxes the representative Tvedt Solberg refers to when he says 'tax code to the richest'. Is it the inheritance tax, which the Workers' Party wrote in its alternative budget for the current year, about the importance of reducing differences? Is it the case that we agree that it should be removed, or is it the case that the Workers' Party is working on the idea of reintroducing the inheritance fee? Or is that the corporate tax? That's what I thought we agreed to reduce, for the sake of more jobs. No matter which of the taxes we're talking about, there's little connection between the Workers' Party's rhetoric and politics. In the 2017 budget, we are following up the tax reform, in line with the agreement in Stortinget. This means lower taxes on enterprises, making it more profitable to add production to Norway. Investment tax reliefs are provided, which will strengthen Norwegian private ownership and distort investment from property to jobs, and the budget includes a targeted package of measures to combat the unemployment of the South and West in the most affected industries, of 4 billion. kr. We are strengthening investment in infrastructure, research and innovation. It will increase the skills of the population, strengthen innovation and reduce the cost of transport to business. In this way, we can improve the basis of tomorrow's industries. Overall, this government puts in place a strong effort to put free hands at work and to create new, profitable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e683	No, we do not blame the government for the oil price drop, but it is responsible for the handling. This government has made it more difficult to be unemployed in Norway. It has cut the holiday pay of those receiving the daily allowance, and it has introduced tax on termination benefits. This government has shown that it prioritises tax cuts for those who have the most, and in that debate the Minister of Finance knows what taxes the Workers' Party intends to pay. We need a policy that increases activity, that creates new jobs. I would like to remind the Minister of Finance that she is in the Question Time and has to answer. When the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister visited Rosenberg Verft in Stavanger, there was a clear challenge from those who work there, where one said that tax letters do not work here. A requested concrete measure that can increase activity and put in place more jobs. When can they in Rogaland expect the Minister of Finance to listen to their input?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e692	This has been done by the Minister of Finance and the Government, and we have demonstrated this through both the government budget for next year and the budget for the current year. We have taken seriously the situation that has arisen as a result of the severe fall in oil prices. That is quite correct, the government is responsible for dealing with the situation in the Norwegian economy. Who could expect us to meet the biggest oil price shock in 30 years? Who could foresee the consequences? We have known for so long that we would reach a point where oil investments would fall and that we had to convert the Norwegian economy. That work should have started a long time ago, but we're doing that job. We have been committed to combining a good and competitive tax policy with measures that address the needs of the most – both in Rogaland and in the rest of the South-West – and not least through flexibility in labour market measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e701	Unfortunately, the conversion of the Minister of Finance here is missing, content. Despite big words and a lot of talk about conversion, new jobs are not created. It must be a paradox for the Minister of Finance – despite the great words – that no new jobs are created in the transition it is talking about. I talked about the cuts done to the unemployed. Rosenberg called for the concrete measures that could increase its activity to create more jobs. It was therefore a little shocking to see that when the Minister of Finance presented his budget, there was also a cut in the direct effort against unemployment. In 2016, it's 5 billion. kr in the South-West package of measures. In 2017, despite being on a record high level, it will still be only 4 billion. kr – a cut of 1 billion. kr. What is the background for one now, despite the fact that the unemployment rate is high, to the measures against unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e710	I do not agree with that description of reality at all. In our draft government budget next year, we have maintained a high level of labour market measures, recognising that many people will need them in the transition phase into which the Norwegian economy enters. There is no doubt that those who now experience challenges of losing a job have difficulty. We must take this seriously, and we must meet it with targeted measures where the challenges are greatest, without destroying the growth and development of other parts of the country that have not encountered the unemployment challenge now facing the South and West. I think I should remind the representative that the agencies have also received assistance in the various measures and arrangements put forward by the government in their budgets. And on top of that is the criticism from the Workers' Party hole, all the time it's hard to see what is the Workers' Party alternative to the measures the Government has actually proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e720	I want to ask the Minister of Finance a question: ‘Vacancy is record high, and according to the Prime Minister and Finance Minister, tax cuts in property taxes are one of the most important steps to reduce unemployment. Despite the fact that all external and internal calculations have been made by the Ministry of Finance, tax cuts will have little or no effect. What does the Council of State think about her strong bet getting so little to say to all individuals and families who are now experiencing the absence of the body?"
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e729	Let me first correct the representative of Wickholm. It is only in the Workers' Party's rhetoric that property taxes are one of the most important measures to reduce unemployment. The truth is that the government has a wide range of actions in the toolbox, which are now in use — and which have already begun to work — to prevent unemployment. The tax relief is part of this, but only a small proportion of the instruments. I have said this before: I acknowledge every single penny this government has given in tax cuts, not because they are meant to fight unemployment here and now, but because we need a competitive tax system that makes companies want to invest, grow, create jobs in Norway. When the representative says that – and I quote – ‘tax code will have little or no effect’, I do not understand why the Workers' Party after the tax settlement, which was just about reduced tax, had the following heading on its website: ‘More profitable investment in Norwegian jobs’ I hope the Workers' Party, despite the rhetoric, is in line with the policy we have adopted. The property tax, which we agree to reduce by means of the tax settlement, is unfortunate for Norwegian private ownership. The government wants to strengthen the Norwegian private ownership. The taxes on wealth, as is known only to Norwegian owners, make it more difficult to operate under Norwegian ownership. Investment taxes can also create liquidity challenges for owners. Part of business may find it difficult to finance its investments. As a result, taxes on wealth can lead to a failure to implement projects that are profitable for society and that would provide new jobs. I therefore do not agree that taxes on wealth do not affect jobs. On the contrary, I am sure that lower taxes on wealth will increase the interest in investing in business and creating new jobs. But the government's strongest investment is not one thing; it is the whole of what we do: action packages, permitting legislation, action sites, multiple study places, increased investment in research and development, record-breaking investments in transport and much more. The sum of this hope I am also noticed among those who experience the difficult situation that it is to lose the job after the large oil price shock to which the Norwegian economy is exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e747	I think we now get some good examples of why it is difficult and challenging to make agreements with the Minister of Finance. She's in the middle of this day. In the case of property taxes, we and the government agree that there should be a valuation of 80 pst. of the property items. We do not agree on the rate. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance here gives the impression in his speech to the Stortinget that the Workers' Party and the Government agree on the wealth tax in the tax settlement. That's not right. Then she also quotes me as saying that tax cuts will have no effect – when it has a direct reference to the sentence before. Then I just have to complain that Storting's systems do not allow more words to be used in the questions, so that it is possible to clarify. So this is the property tax that I'm talking about, which I'm clearly referring to in my question. But the Council of State chooses to use the broad term instead of dealing with what is the beginning of the question. That's a little neat way to answer in Stortinget. But the question remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e756	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e761	In my previous answer, I gave a very thorough explanation as to why this government believes it is right to continue to work to reduce the wealth tax: we believe it is wrong to penalise Norwegian industry in Norway and make it a competitive disadvantage in relation to foreign business in Norway. It has not been long since we dealt with a case in this Chamber that was about deferred taxes on wealth for companies that are now experiencing challenges as a result of the difficult situation in the South and West. At least we agreed. There was a recognition from the Workers' Party that taxes on wealth can be burdensome. So it's okay for the Workers' Party to push that bill, but it's not good for the Workers' Party to make sure that the wealth tax is perceived as fair and competitive. We will continue to work to reduce taxes on wealth, because we believe that it strengthens Norwegian ownership in Norway and creates more jobs in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e768	Very few are created – i.e. none – private sector jobs under this government. This is the 7th consecutive quarter where all growth in employment comes within government/government. To stand here and claim that these tax cuts, which the government has done over a long time, and which have been part of the Progress Party's programme for a long time, regardless of the economic situation in Norway, will have the effect that the Council of State says: I deeply disagree with that. The question becomes, when 57 pst. Of the unemployed, they are dissatisfied with the government's job: Should not this money be used in a way that is known to have more impact in the short term, but also in the long term, because we are building jobs and new businesses on the shoulders of already existing businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e775	I understand very well that people who now experience being out of work have a bad time and are impatient to get back to work. It's important, because the longer you stand on the outside of work, the harder it gets to come back. This is why the government is taking several measures. Yes, we are implementing tax reductions because we believe it is important, and we are implementing a wide range of measures and investments because we know that it is remedying the situation both in the short and longer term. But the prerequisite for creating more jobs in the private sector, i.e. in private business, is private capital. If we are to ensure that we have enough private capital available, the state must not seize it. Therefore, it has been important for this government to reduce the tax burden, both through corporate taxes and through property taxes – to facilitate more accessible private capital, which can be invested in new and more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e785	My question is as follows: ‘The government’s local government economy is giving rise to increased differences in the services that people receive in tax-deficient versus tax-administrative municipalities. An example is the Lower Eiker in Buskerud, which is in a situation of coercion, where important and necessary services such as a new home need to be scrapped because of. serious loss of income. Does the State Council wish to continue to favour the inhabitants of the richest municipalities, for whom the Municipal Economic Agreement with the Progress Party and the Left opens, or will he give priority to a fairer service provision for all?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e794	A good and predictable local economy is important to ensure the further development of school and welfare services in municipalities. There have been no changes in the tax elements of the income system during this downturn period. It's the same tax rate of 40 p.p., and the level of tax equalization is the same as under the red-green government. Tax-weak municipalities like Lower Eiker are still well maintained. In 2015, no municipalities, after cohesion, had less than 93 pst. of the national average of taxes per capita. The government's plans for the local economy have given the municipalities higher growth than the red-green landscape. The average annual task-corrected real growth for municipalities in the period 2013–2016, i.e. under the Right–Fremskritsparti-regieringen, has been estimated to be 2.2 pst., while for the period 2009–2013 – under the red-green government – it was only 1.4 pst. Lower Eiker has had a higher annual task corrected real growth during today's government than under the red-green government. Under the bourgeois government, growth has been 2.7 pst. ; under the red-green government the growth of the Lower Oak has been only 2.2 pst. In 2015, Lower Eiker received 49 million. kr more in tax revenue than in 2014. Taking into account the additional costs of demography and pensions for municipalities, we see that the action space for municipalities has been clearly larger under the bourgeois government than it was under the red-green government from 2011 to 2013. Strengthening the local economy improves care services and other services for citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e809	Governments make a point of comparing the local economy under the red-green government with the current government situation. The fairest comparison would have been to compare today's government's arrangements for local economy with similar proposals from the Workers' Party, and we are now proposing for example. for next year, 2 billion. kr more. Lower Eiker would get $8 million. kr more with our arrangement. But that's not the main point. Both increased transfers from the country and greater redistribution to less-taxed municipalities are absolutely necessary to ensure equivalent services to the inhabitants. Lower Eiker has e.g. approx. half of the tax income of the municipality of Bærum and, for the Workers' Party, an older resident in the Lower Eiker is as much worth as an older person in the Bærum. So my question is whether the Council of State is willing to increase the redistribution of taxpayers to tax-deprived municipalities in order to ensure an equivalent service offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e816	It is not surprising that the Workers' Party has more money in opposition than they have when they are in government. That's how it behaves. Therefore, it is very relevant to compare the current government with the red-green government, not least because in the 2013 election campaign there was one horror after another from the Labour Party representatives about how it would be with the Right-Fremskrit party government. Now we have the fasit. Scares have been put to shame. We see that the municipalities have had a positive development – yes, in fact, a more positive development than under the red-green ones. Today, the Municipal Report could report that the municipalities have the lowest debt growth in modern times. Indebtedness growth in municipalities has halved since 2010. It says a lot, both about predictable framework conditions and about good financial management in municipalities. We have not made any changes in the tax share during this large-scale period, nor have I registered that the Workers' Party has done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e823	It is so interesting that the Council of State chooses to mention the election campaign in 2013, because it warned, among other things. signed against increasing differences between people as a result of the local economy approach of the Right. 14 of the 19 municipalities in Buskerud would be negative, and that was the municipal department's own figures. So if it's shown up some new numbers since then, it might be interesting to see them. I was then accused by the Right Team of spreading lies about Right Policy. But as I said, it was the municipal department's own numbers. For the next year, the County of Buskerud has shown that 12 of the 21 municipalities in Buskerud actually have a negative impact. KS has said that the room for action for next year's budget is equal to zero, so I'm actually repeating my question: Does the Council of State think it's fair that the inhabitants of Lower Eiker get a worse offer, for example. in the care of the elderly, than the inhabitants of a richer municipality, like Bærum? And if no, what will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e830	This Council of State is a member of local self-government, and it is quite alarming if it is that the representative Lise Christoffersen of the Workers' Party would deprive the municipalities of the opportunities for local priorities. There is no doubt that the horrors of the representative Lise Christoffersen in the 2013 big elections have been put to shame. Now we're looking at the debt growth in the municipalities, which is the lowest in modern times. We're looking at the growth of the local economy. The municipalities have been given more room for action under this government. Then it is that local politicians have a freedom of action and have to make their priorities. In addition, we have stepped up state efforts in the health and care sector. We've focused more on drug care and mental health. We've made sure that the most vulnerable among us get a better offer. But we also respect local priorities and local responsibility for our own citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e840	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘The Agreement on a New Income Scheme for Municipalities between Government Parties and the Left states that by the end of 2016 a Plan for the Localisation of New and Existing State Jobs outside Oslo will be presented. When the agreement was presented, the volume was compared to the relocation of the Bondevik II administration. 1 000 jobs. This will be of great importance to the employees and their families and to the municipality of Oslo. Will the plan be submitted before Christmas while the Stortinget is assembled, and have the employees’ organisations and the municipality of Oslo been involved in the process?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e849	The government will develop and strengthen the competences environments throughout the country. State jobs can contribute to this. The agreement between the Government Parties and the Left emphasises the need to build up wider areas of competence throughout the country. The work on locating new and existing jobs outside Oslo shall be reinforced. In particular, localisation shall be assessed in new regional centres, even outside the major cities. New and relocated state jobs shall as a general rule be located outside Oslo. We propose that a plan for the location of state jobs be presented as part of the Communication to the UK on sustainable cities and strong districts. This message will be submitted to Stortinget in the winter of 2017. The size was in Prop. 29 S for 2016–2017, Changes in the State budget 2016, briefed on this postponement. I cannot now comment on the content of the plan, as it has not been dealt with by the government. There has not yet been formal contact with the Municipality of Oslo on this matter. Oslo Municipality has the highest number of government employees of its municipalities. The share of employees in the State tariff area is about 10 pst. of the total number of persons employed in Oslo. Oslo has a strong labour market and the consequences of the relocation of state enterprises are limited to the labour market in the capital. However, the consequences of the relocation of existing jobs may be burdensome for those involved. Therefore, it is important to set up good processes in the context of localisation and, where appropriate, relocation of state workplaces. This applies both to employees of the establishments and to the relevant local authorities. The departments responsible will focus on these considerations in the follow-up to the plan for the location of State jobs. All establishments in the country are bound by the provisions of the Main Agreement on the right of participation. Co-decision is exercised in the form of information, discussion and negotiation of specific aspects at different stages of a process. Assessment and decision on the possible relocation of jobs from Oslo is a political issue in which trustees are not to participate. The implementation of any relocation or re-establishment outside Oslo will take place in line with the applicable national migration framework. Conversion shall be as smooth and effective as possible. The process shall take place within the framework of the guidelines set out in the ‘Personnel policy in the case of conversion processes’. Migration security is a matter of good and committed cooperation between employers and employee organisations in individual activities and between the parties centrally. A number of instruments are available to facilitate migration costs for individual workers. Examples include the cost of buying and selling housing, the cost of commuting, wage subsidies, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e862	I thank you for your answer. In the case of new jobs, the Workers' Party has also decided that it is right to leave them outside Oslo, where possible and appropriate. So that's the agreement. But we do not agree that there should be a large-scale relocation of existing jobs from Oslo. It will affect many families, many people who have worn out an entire working life, worked and stood on. Suddenly to be told that it is politically decided that they should be moved somewhere else in the country – an understanding is needed that there can be a rather heavy burden, even for important environments here in Oslo. I would like to remind you of the strong use of the words of City Councillor Erling Lae in a heated debate during the previous emigration with then State Council Victor Norman, where he compared this with Pol Pot methods. So I'm going to ask the Council of State: does he understand that Oslo can also feel like a stickler, feel vulnerable, and that it's about caring for those who work and labor in these jobs here in the city?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e871	Oslo has a strong labour market with both state and private labour markets, and it is also the case in the labour market that jobs are relocated. It happens in the private sector, and it can also happen in the state sector. On the other hand, we must note that this government has a much more offensive attitude to building up environments of competence and to use the expertise throughout the country. We have moved out more jobs, yes, more than twice as many jobs during this period as during the previous one. Then I also find that inside the Workers' Party there is obviously a great deal of disagreement on these issues. In Stavanger Aftenblad today the Workers' Party's representative, Helga Pedersen, states that state jobs are important for the development of the second largest cities. And then she says, "Oslo has little to fear."
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e878	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt about what the Workers' Party's programme is. As far as existing jobs are concerned, we are not in favour of their unmovement, but new jobs are to be involved in and strengthen competences around the country, as the Council of State says. With regard to the process of relocation of a large number of existing state jobs from Oslo, it is important that the Council of State understands the uprising it created in Oslo last time. You feel that you are being bought with this, about something that seems to have little to do with the matter, that you got a majority with the Left alone about a new income system for the municipalities of the spring party, where Oslo becomes a sort of a stickler in an agreement with the Left. It is strange that the Council of State will not involve the employees, involve these jobs, in some way in the process now, so I will ask: shall there be a consultation process at any time during the process of the Storing Message, or will we get it right to the Storing without the employees being involved in any way, and where there is a danger that things are locked?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e889	I explained in my answer how the employees are to be involved, and the employees are involved in the way that it is common for them to be involved in these kinds of cases. On the other hand, I am very surprised at the use of language. There's no reason Oslo should feel like some kind of prying boy. Oslo is a growing city. Oslo has a strong labour market, a strong government and public labour market, a strong private labour market. On the other hand, there are other parts of the country that need to strengthen their environments of competence, and I note that the Workers' Party appears to be the party that wants to at least strengthen the environments of competence elsewhere in the country. When I meet the Workers' Party's representatives in North Norway, in the West, in the Inland, the more public jobs are needed. I have met many representatives from the Workers' Party from South Africa who want us to move government jobs there. This government has a more offensive attitude to these issues than the Labour Party clearly has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e899	My question goes to the Minister for Transport: ‘There has been strong criticism of the route offer for the short-haul network in central and northern Norway. In many places, there is a weakening of the offer, which is unfortunate for businesses and opportunities for new jobs, as well as increasing concerns about future airport structure. This is the responsibility of the Council of State. Local and regional politicians have asked for a meeting with the Council of State but are not receiving answers. Will the Council of State accept the invitation to dialogue with stakeholders in order to ensure a better-adapted offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e908	Let me first just make it clear that we haven't added up to any changes in the aircraft structure. It has also been made clear in what the government has said earlier, so that uncertainty does not make sense to try to spread. We have already agreed to a meeting. It is scheduled for a meeting with the Aeronautical Forum Namdal on 20 December. As far as I am concerned, we have also met the wishes of the representative of Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e915	I thank you for the answer – if anything short and in cash. With regard to the future flight path structure, there is no doubt – and there is a clear feedback from Central and North Norway – that if this is implemented, this will lead to a dramatic decline in passenger traffic, which in turn will lead to pressure on the aircraft location structure. Especially for my own home country, the North Throne Team, what is now being added up to is potentially very dramatic. Then it is nice for local and regional actors to meet the Secretary of State, but it is typical for the whole matter that it is not the Council itself that sets up and listens to the signals coming. Solvik-Olsen is otherwise known for being high and low when there are matters he engages in, but here he chooses to send the State Secretary. I would like to be assured by the Council of State that the meeting on 20 December will be a real recording meeting, so that what appears at the meeting will be taken care of, and that, together with local and regional actors, better solutions are sought than has now been provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e924	I've noticed through various debates with the representative of Grande this past week that it's about creating as much uncertainty as possible, even where things are really going very well. When he gives the impression that there is a clear feedback from all over North Norway, we should remind him that many places have actually got a much better flight offer than what you have today. It is not about what demands the government puts at the bottom, because those requirements are largely unchanged from the previous government, but it is about the fact that Onøe has had an offer where they have previously gone beyond the requirements, but where they have done something about it now. Elsewhere, they've increased sharply. For example, in Harstad and at Leknes, Onøe offers more frequencies than before, although the requirements at the bottom are exactly the same. At other places, they have slightly fewer departures, which they justify almost no passengers on board. Also from my home, Stavanger, there are now fewer departures in the evening than it has been before. It is not the government that sets up air routes, but we ensure that there is a minimum offer around the country where one does not have commercial routes, and we must take care of that further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e933	The uncertainty that exists in a number of areas for which the Council of State is responsible is, of course, that the Council of State itself has created, through what has been said about Saturday newspapers – on which we had a debate in the Storting yesterday – and the air route offer, on which we are debating today. I record that the Council of State seems satisfied and satisfied with the offer that has been made. Both this case and the matter I referred to instead, testify to a government and a council that does not understand the districts. The concern that has been expressed did not just come when the flight offer from Onderøe was submitted, it came at the moment when the Council of State submitted the offer. It has also been shown in the past that air route offers have been too poorly adapted to the need. Among other things in 2011, Meltveit Kleppa, then Minister for Transport, chose to withdraw a tender because it was too poorly adapted to the needs of Røros. Is it such that the Council of State chooses only to borrow back and not to engage in this matter, or is he willing to avail himself of the space of action he has, to ensure a better offer where there is actually a deterioration today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e942	Once again, we get an example of how the representative, Grande, distorts history a little bit to get as negative an approach as possible. In all the debates we've had on newspapers, I've said I'm not satisfied, while the representative of Grande walks around and says that the government is satisfied and does nothing. It's simply wrong, it's simply a lie, because we've said many times that we have a lot of meetings with the actors, just to solve the challenges that are. So I hope that the representative Grande can be honest with the debate out, so that we can concentrate on the real problems and not construct everything into being a problem. In the same way, we have said – and we have sent this in writing to Stortinget – that, from 1 April, the provisional timetable of Unhøes is something Unhøe now has a round with all the regions about to get a recording. Then, onions will meet with us to discuss this completely – while the representative, Grande, gives the impression that we are doing nothing. That's wrong. We should have a constructive approach to this, so that we can solve the problems that exist, rather than just paint black.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e954	‘In the Official Journal of Bergen on 24 November, it appears that the Bergen-Arna railway project is about twice as expensive as it has been stated. At the same time, it appears that the construction time will increase from 5 to 9 years. The full power of the Ulriken tunnel depends on the Bergen-Fløen section being implemented as planned. Can the Council of State guarantee that full pressure will be exerted to implement Bergen-Arna with rational progress and that the deadlines set before are maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e961	I will guarantee that we will do as much as possible to carry out the project as well as possible, but also within the cost framework that one originally had. We know that's going to be very challenging, because we've seen costs increase. I think it is a little strange that the representative, Rommetveit, asks for full gas to be given, almost as if nothing has happened, while the representative, from the Workers' Party, walks around these days and is very worried about the cost of the project and gives the impression that we have to both postpone and stop the project until we get more overview. So the Labour Party should soon have one vote in this debate, so that together we can find the constructive solutions. I'm worried when we see that the cost increases as much as they do. That's exactly why we have to spend time figuring out what we can do about changes in the project, so that we actually realize it as quickly and as cheap as possible. That's my goal. We need respect for taxpayers' money. I also believe that the Workers' Party knows that this is a complicated project, because the Workers' Party spent a lot of years, when they themselves put in government, to find out how to handle it, precisely because there were many unsolved challenges with it. I take the responsibility of trying to solve this. We've also informed the Storing about many times. We have also had external quality assurances go through the project. My ambition is that this project will be completed, it will be done as soon as possible, we will get costs better under control. But it's obvious that there are challenges now that we have to deal with. Then I hope we can work together on this, so that we can complete the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e970	Thank you for the answer, which I perceive as quite ‘full pressure’. According to Bergen's Official Journal, both the consultant who has assessed the project and the Railway Agency want to close Bergen Station for up to eight months in order to save 200 million. SEK-400 million. kr. Such a closure will affect a total of two million travelers. It will also result in a very difficult traffic situation on an already heavily charged behalf and create parking problems. Most people would think that this would be a totally unsustainable solution, and I hope that the Council of State can also agree. My question will then be: can the Council of State confirm that the government and the Minister consider closing the Bergen station for eight months?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e979	What we're working on right now is to solve this as well as possible. I see that other people, outside the political system, have said that you can save money by making people's travel lives more difficult. My approach as the Council of State is to make people's daily travel easier and to increase mobility. That's why it seems a little strange to me to be going to grips with that extent. But because we have not yet been properly treated, I will not conclude now, because I also rely on the Stortinge to provide enough money for us to realize these projects. We know that there's got to be a diet -- use it up against each other. I think the Storting is also concerned about that. We have record-breaking appropriations for the railways. We've increased the rail budget by over 50 pst. after the government change. It amounts to between 6 and 7 billion. kr more every year. We have to spend that money in a sensible way, and given the approach the Labour Party has taken to the project so far, with criticism of over-cost, it would be very good if the Workers' Party is clear whether they will accept an additional over-cost, which is the solution that Mr Rommetveit is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e990	Thanks for the answer. If one builds double tracks, a double tunnel through Ulriken, it has little in common if one doesn't also arrange it in towards Bergen. Now one sees this in context, and when it concerns Bergen–Fløen – I don't think there are so many who travel between Bergen and Fløen. It's not that central. The flea is many more traveling to, than to the flea. So I thought it was good that the council signaled that he saw it as undisputed with such a long closure of the Bergen station. Bergen-Arna is the first stage in the modernisation of Vosebanen. In particular, it is important to start the Arna-Voss joint project because of the racial danger. Can the State Council ensure that the cost of Arna–Bergen will not lead to a road and rail between Arna and Voss becoming a priority in the national transport plan, which the government will present in less time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e999	National transport plans are presented in less time – that is quite right – and then a few answers to how we give this overall priority will be given. But what I've already announced is that unlike the previous government, we're actually going to fix the problems between Bergen and Voss. We've said that we're going to build a better road, and we're going to build a better railway. It wasn't inside the previous NTP, it's going to be inside this NTP. It's also quite right, as the representative Rommetveit says, that the railway only makes sense when one connects it to the ends that people actually travel to. It also has to be inside, and there's some of the challenges here. Once you've got cost excesses in the dimension that we have, we have to be able to solve it. Then it would have been very good if the Workers' Party could communicate it with one voice, instead of on the one hand having a hurry and not thinking about costs, which Rommetveit here is talking about, while other people in the Workers' Party are attacking the same thing with very criticism, precisely because it has been expensive. There must be one voice from one party. It would at least be useful for us if we were to get a total mass to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1006	Then we go to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1014	This question, from the representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1019	My question then goes to the Minister of Transport, and in the event of an incurrency, a sentence that has now been inserted has occurred, at least in the electronic version: ‘The Council of State has referred to the Air Safety Authority and the Ministry of Transport, which have consistently argued that the legislation relating to the background checks of third-country flight personnel is sound and that the scheme has been carefully assessed. However, ESA was in its letter in September crystal clear that the Norwegian position ‘breaks with a basic common understanding of the European aviation safety standard’. How could the Council of State then make a mistake and at the same time reject all objections to the existence of a security threat?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1031	This issue concerns crew members from outside the EU and the EEA territory, so-called third countries. The question arises in the light of the fact that the air traffic control carries out background checks on the persons required to have access to security restricted areas in the light of the provision of the so-called security regulation. Thus, there are crew members in Norwegian air carriers living in a non-EU country and in the EEA territory who are to be issued Union Crew Identification Card after background check by the Air Safety Authority. The background check is carried out on the basis of documentation submitted, such as: certificates relating to education and employment and ID paper must also be kept by the applicant. Foreign police attestations have not been included in this assessment. The assessment there is that the access they receive to the aerodrome is initially the same as normal passengers receive. So they don't have access to any secret area, or to a specially protected area, they get access to the arrival and departure hall, they get access to a waiting room, and they get access to the aircraft they're actually working on. That's all. Access to other areas of the aerodrome is restricted. They must also pass through the normal security controls through which all passengers pass, when going out and into the aerodrome area. So they can't bring illegal items without actually checking them out. ESA asked in a letter dated 6 July for information on the matter. We briefed them in a letter back on 23 August on legislation and practice, and then in a letter to us on 28 September they showed that the security regulation is not in line with EEA law. This does not necessarily mean that safety is not well-managed, but that it is not in line with the legislation that they consider to be. Then we've gone round and looked at this with a police record, because that's what they've been looking at, and by letter of 31 October to ESA, we're informing you that it might be possible to use a police certificate from third countries. What we have been told at this time is that one can derogate from the provisions of the Norwegian Police Register Act and the regulation if it results from international obligations. And in this case, the legislation applies to an EU regulation that has been implemented by the EEA Agreement in the usual way, and then it is that kind of law. Therefore, the Air Safety Authority is now working with the Ministry to prepare proposals for changes to the Security Regulation, and that proposal will be sent out at general consultation, and we aim to ensure that it enters into force as soon as possible. Let me underline what I have said, that because of the limited access these people already have to the airport – they can generally only move where ordinary travellers can – it has been assessed that safety has been adequately ensured, even though we are now making a small change to fully adapt to the EEA acquis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1042	Thanks for the answer. I don't know if I should feel more reassured. At least Norsk Flyerbund does not. They go out so hard that as late as November 27th, they say terrorists can have access to flights. Norwegian authorities exempt hundreds of aviation from the requirement of background check and police certification, which was just confirmed by the Council of State. And then they say, now the Norwegian Flyer Federation is calling out a warning. In the ultimate sense, this could mean that potential terrorists are now given a key to being on board. I think the Council of State is taking it pretty easy when he says that this is being treated as other air passengers. I don't entirely agree with that when someone gets approved as a crew. But these are pretty strong claims from connected, and my follow-up question is: does the Council share this concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1049	We're very concerned about safety, both at the airports and not least when one is on the plane. That is why we are constantly working on how we can ensure that the practical security controls are implemented in the best possible way, and that the aviation oversight system works in the best possible way. We work closely with both Avinor and the airlines. Now we're making the changes that are needed to satisfy the ESA and EEA Agreement. But as I said, the access these people have at the airport is basically the same access to anyone who has bought an airline ticket. In its ultimate consequence, if these people start moving in places they don't have permission to – but it would also be possible for an airline passenger to actually do – if you start breaking the law and breaking into places, then security controls would reveal this because there are alarms on the doors and the like. I think we already have a good level of safety in general at the airports for people travelling. Now we also have to make sure that the law is in line with what ESA thinks is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1058	I just have to say that it worries me a lot when comparing a cabin crew member with approval, with a passenger. Of course there are two different things. One is what they do at the airport itself. The second is that there is no doubt that a cabin crew member has greater access within an aeroplane and to the pilots, in terms of their operation. I think this is dragging it very far. Not only Norwegian aviation authorities are skeptical. Nor has the European partner organisation of the Norwegian Flyer Federation, ECA, been gracious in its criticism. Their short comment is: What is Norway doing? Why do we allow a potential safety risk, both in Norway and in the rest of Europe? As the Council of State refers to, the monitoring body of ESA has also asked Norway to do so. Then I'd like to ask, when can we expect the new rules to be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1065	Let me underline something that seems to be overlooked in silence. The representative Juvik mentioned that this legislation should be in place. The great tirad that now came seems a little unnecessary given that the legislation will actually fix what Juvik thinks is a problem, but which I believe is actually well cared for as it has been practiced. Now it's at work, and we're counting on it to come into place in a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1070	Then we go back to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1079	This question, from the representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1084	‘What thoughts does the Minister for Foreign Affairs have about national ownership and the exploitation of Norwegian natural resources in connection with the TISA Agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1089	TISA is an important agreement for Norway. Unfortunately, there is no longer any prospect of concluding the agreement this year, but the process has come a long way, and we hope to conclude as soon as possible. Norway has a particular dependence on open, free and well-functioning markets internationally, not least for services, which account for three quarters of our GDP. We have strong, competitive, internationally oriented companies in energy-related services, shipping, telecommunications, financial services and more. They depend on good, predictable framework conditions to succeed. There is nothing in TISA that would restrict Norwegian action spaces in terms of national ownership or dividends of Norwegian natural resources. The extraction of natural resources is mainly considered to be goods production in a commercial context, while TISA includes trade in services. TISA does not affect Norwegian sovereignty over natural resources. As for the service agreement in the WTO, GATS, it is also such that the right to regulate underlies TISA.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1096	I'm here with the energy supplement to the TISA agreement, and I'm aware that the TISA agreement has been seen waiting for Trump and the new administration in the United States and what they're going to do, but there's a lot of reason to believe that we're going to meet this principle again, but maybe in another form or another way. I'm standing here looking at the energy supplement of the TISA agreements, as it stands, as a draft, and what's disturbing there, and as several critics have pointed out, is that there might be a Trojan horse here. The draft agreement states that national ownership should exist, but not national control over the exploitation of these resources, i.e. that one gets a kind of ‘similar-national’ ownership, where one owns a house, but cannot determine how it should be prepared, used, etc. Can the Council of State guarantee that Norway does not now enter into an agreement that corroborates the Norwegian model of ownership and exploitation of national natural resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1103	The basis for TISA negotiations is Norway’s positions, ownership, the right to regulate and ownership are at national level, and the importance of ensuring non-discrimination, insofar as it is open to international competition, for example. We are in the energy field concerned that Norwegian energy service providers competing internationally should not be discriminated against. Then we are obliged to have a similar approach at home. However, the principle of non-discrimination is limited to discrimination between service providers based on nationality and does not affect the content of national requirements and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1108	Thanks for the answer. I'm going to try to put into concrete terms the turbulence that has been: Norway may be the country in the whole TISA agreement thread that has really big natural resources. We are a major exporter of oil and have huge natural resources in the energy field that are exportable. Therefore, this supplement is particularly interesting in the TISA context of Norway. In Norway, we have a long tradition, with Statoil, Statkraft, and the fall-back debate, we have regular intervals. We also have the state's direct financial involvement. Together, this forms the Norwegian model. Can the Minister assure the Storting that none of these elements in what constitutes the Norwegian model will be rocked by the introduction of an agreement, as has now been proposed by Iceland and Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1117	I have to repeat that TISA is about trade in services, not about the basic ownership of natural resources or the fundamental right that one has nationally to regulate both ownership and management of natural resources. This is the basis for – it is the basis of the proposal from Norway and Iceland, and it is the basis for the whole debate. It is on the basis that we want to strengthen the opportunities for energy service providers internationally, we negotiate – not from a point of view of wanting to rock by our right to regulate our natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1125	My question is as follows: ‘In the last few weeks, wolf observations have been made almost daily until and between settlements in the municipality of Trysil. The wolf is a predator that hunts in herds and can do great damage. It has recently been confirmed by the State's natural supervision that five to six wolves have been in a farmyard in Varåholla. There is unrest when wolves are in the courtyard of people, and when they attack sheep right up to the wall of the house. Does the Council of State mean that there should be no limit to the proximity of the wolf before it can be taken out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1134	I have great respect for the fear of nearby wolves. I have that respect, even though it is such that the wolf is relatively harmless to people. It is important for me to stress that the wolf is at peace in Norway. The wolf is critically threatened, and we have an international responsibility to care for this species in Norwegian nature. Therefore, careful consideration should be given to assessing the extraction of wolves on the basis to which the representative refers. In the vast majority of cases where wolves are observed and considered to be small clouds, it is about young individuals. Young wolves on migration often expose themselves more than stationary wolves. However, there are also situations where wolves associated with established wolves may stay very close to populated areas during periods. An example of this is from the so-called Lagoon Revirate in 2015, when a wolf flock stayed a few days near a farm in Trysil. The state’s nature oversight was on site and observed the situation for a few days. However, the wolves were not rediscovered, and the wolves probably left the area after a few days. The Directorate-General for the Environment and their field personnel in the State Department of Natural Resources are prepared to follow up any situation with nearby wolves. We have also seen this in the matter raised by the representative, Mr Vedum. They have been able to confirm that there has been a wolf in the farmyard, also because they have been there, but they have observed that there is no longer a current situation. They make a professional assessment on a case-by-case basis. The first thing that almost always gets tried is trying to scare people off and make them more skeptical. Failure to achieve this and continuing to have undesirable behaviour will be assessed. I have full confidence that the Directorate-General for the Environment is capable of making a good assessment of when it is necessary to carry out the killing of large predators with undesirable behaviour and where this is deemed necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1147	There have been repeated wolf observations in residential areas in Trysil municipality. A local government representative from the Right has also sent a letter to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment expressing the concern it has caused, not least when a wolf flock of five to six animals has passed between the houses. I think most of us will realize that it is quite demanding when animals are taken almost completely until the house wall – 20 meters from where you live. Does the Council of State think that there should be a basis for taking out the type of nearby wolf, simply because it is such a major intervention in individual freedom that you have wolves in the community? Does the Council of State realize that the local population wants to remove the type of animal that creates so much unrest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1154	I understand, as I said in my answer, that all situations where the wolf is near can cause fear. That is also why we take this seriously. In those situations, a good case-by-case assessment is important. That's why the State's nature agency, at notice, moves out to the site and observes the situation. If, in the current situation, the predator does not get scared away or if, for other reasons, it continues to show undesirable behaviour, it will already be assessed whether killing will take place. But the first thing you do is you move out. It calms the local population, and it allows you to make a professional assessment of what to do on the spot.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1159	Hans Peter Nyhuus, who lost two animals in his farm because a wolf crew went in there and took them, says in the newspaper Eastlanden that he is unable to apply for a breeding permit again, because he has applied earlier and only received a rejection. He thinks it's very demanding, and is a little disillusioned on the basis of it. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make it easier for the local population who have wolves next to their homes – where they lose animals, where there are wolves sniffing on the trampoline, where there is a wolf between the farm and the bus stop – to apply for a moulting permit, so that they can get those animals shot quickly, or does the Council of State think that today's system is good?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1164	Today, we have a system based on Stortingen's decision on wolf zones and stockpiles, and that we are obliged by the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act, which lays down conditions for what is to be done to allow the extraction of a totally satisfied species as a wolf in Norway. It works well, and in situations where the wolf is close, it is, in my opinion, appropriate that we have a system in which the State's nature oversight moves out and can make an on-site assessment of what is necessary. First of all, as I said, the wolf is tried to scare, and if it does not work, other measures, including possible killing, are considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1172	This question, from the representative Anna Ljunggren to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1177	‘Access by nature is important for public health and recreation regardless of the size of your wallet. In those areas where nature is easily accessible, the population has a lower threshold for the use of nature than where nature is less accessible. Figures from the SSB show that the inner Oslofjord counties have the least accessible beach zone, while the available beach zone shrinks both in East and West Agder and in some areas of the West. How will the Council of States ensure equal rights to nature for all?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1184	The beach areas are important to all of us – regardless of the wallet, of course – and we must avoid unfortunate expansion near the sea. Under the Law on Planning and Building, there is a general ban on construction in the 100 meter belt along the sea. Particular attention shall be paid, inter alia, to: outdoor life and nature. The prohibition may be waived through exemptions and through municipal plans and regulatory plans. It is the municipalities that are responsible for treating exemptions and adopting plans, and therefore it is the municipalities that are responsible for taking care of public interests and ensuring that we can all use the beach areas for recreation. I am confident that the municipalities will take this responsibility and that they will cooperate well with the county council and the county council. There are a number of leaders from the central team for dealing with issues in the beach zone, including under the current government. The beach zone is referred to in the main message on outdoor life promoted by the Ministry of Climate and Environment on 11 March this year. As shown here, the government is concerned with maintaining recreational values in the beach zone. In regions and municipalities where the coastal zone is already heavily developed, State protection of open air areas is a relevant tool. In press areas, it is also important to avoid bit-by-bit degradation. Good and comprehensive planning in the coastal zone is important in order to avoid gradual degradation through dispensations. I would also like to mention national expectations for regional and municipal planning, which was adopted by the Royal Resolution on 12 June 2015. This provides important general guidance for planning. One of the points highlighted in particular is that municipalities should take care of natural values and facilitate physical activity and well-being for the whole population by ensuring coherent green structures, open waterways and close access to areas for play, sport, recreation and short-air life. These leaders are well associated with the building ban in the beach zone. The implementation of the construction ban has been deepened through government planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea, from 2011. More concrete leadership has been given here for municipalities, to help with the treatment of planning matters and individual matters. The question refers to figures from the SSB showing that Inner Oslofjord has the least available beach area, and that the available beach area shrinks in East Agder and West Agder and in some areas of the West. It is true that these areas are most exposed to land pressures, and this is also some of the reasons why these areas have the most restrictive leadership. Although it is built in the beach zone, the number of exemptions from the SSB for new buildings in the 100 meter belt along the sea has fallen. In 2014, 1 107 exemptions were granted for new buildings in the 100 meter belt along the sea, while 719 exemptions were granted in 2015. The number of permits according to the plan has also decreased, from 1,194 in 2014 to 811 in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1201	In proposals for amendments to the Planning and Building Act currently under consideration by the Stortinget, the Government has proposed simplified rules for, inter alia, dispensation. The Environment Directorate has been one of the hearing bodies that has warned against this because they believe that changes could result in greater expansion pressures in the coastal zone and in green areas in densely populated areas, by lowering the exemption requirements. That means that a normal family, a regular walker, gets less beach, less green areas in the center to use for recreation and public health. Why does the Council of State feel that changes to the Planning and Building Act were so urgent that it took no time to carry out the necessary investigations into the consequences of how the plan and the law have worked in practice since 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1208	The government implements major simplifications in the Planning and Building Act and the Technical Regulations, and it is with the background that we need fewer fights, shorter planning processes and lower costs. There is great pressure in the housing market, especially in the cities and in the press areas. The issue of Stortinget’s treatment is very important, especially in cities, in order to reduce the duration of treatment in some congestive measures. It is not true that the proposal for a derogation will make it easier to build in the coastal zone, because the proposition emphasises that this does not apply to important regional and national considerations. Important regional and national considerations are the coastal zone, cultural memories and cultivated land, so that the increased dispensability will apply in simpler cases where we believe that municipalities should have a larger local space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1215	We'll come back to the debate on the Law on Planning and Building for next year, when this room is going to deal with it. However, in the nature diversity report and its treatment, it was emphasised that Norway needs increased knowledge of nature and diversity, and that it is urgent to develop a comprehensive ecological base map for the whole country. This will be an important work for municipalities in their plans and in the work on land management, so that valuable species, habitat types and nature can generally be secured against interference and degradation. Does the Council of State believe that the municipalities today have enough knowledge to ensure comprehensive management of valuable nature and open air areas, against degradation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1222	It is a good question that really deserves a more complementary answer, because there are two important elements in it. One is that there is a general need for more knowledge and competence to take care of nature, endangered species and other biodiversity. The second is that many municipalities lack the necessary skills. I think that is a real problem, and that is also one of the important reasons why we want to implement a municipal reform with larger municipalities, precisely in order to gain more level competence. We know that is a problem in many municipalities, and I believe that larger municipalities will be able to strengthen their skills, but in addition, I agree with the representative that there is also a need for more general knowledge in order to take the necessary consideration of nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1230	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children and Gender Equality the following questions: ‘For the third consecutive year, according to a new SIFO report, the number of people who still have payment problems is increasing. Private households have 90 billion. kr in consumption loans, at the top of 3500 billion. NOK in other liabilities. These numbers have never been so high before. At the same time, the government has negotiated putting in place a debt register and rules to stop the aggressive marketing of light credit. Why does the Council of State spend so long on this important work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1239	It is, as the representative was involved, that the consumption debt in Norway is about. 100 B.C.E. kr, and it rises by closer to 10 pst. annual. In addition, there are already very high housing debts. It is particularly worrying that many young people take on more debt than they can handle. High debt, in particular consumption and credit card debt, are expensive loans that create a number of challenges for some. The government is now taking three important steps in this area: we have sent proposals to consult on the establishment of a private debt register, we have been assessed on restrictions on credit marketing, and we have supported several proposals to strengthen training in the personal economy. It is true that work on a debt register has taken time. The establishment of a regulatory framework in this area is complicated. We have had to make assessments of both how the protection of personal data can be optimised and how the debt register can be operated in a safe and efficient way. The proposal has now been put to the consultation and it is intended that private operators will be able to obtain a concession to set up debt registry companies, which will then be approved by the public. We put up a very fast process in this matter and aim that the Storting can deal with the proposal during the spring. If it is adopted, there may be an opportunity to apply for the creation of debt registers as early as next year. The government has recently also been asked what scope we have for regulating the marketing of credit and thus slowing down the most ongoing marketing. The investigation shows that we have a relatively large degree of freedom in relation to EU legislation. The government will now review the investigation and assess whether any of the regulatory proposals should be followed up. The government has also proposed stricter credit card billing procedures and an obligation to refuse such cards if the credit rating so requires. We all have a personal responsibility for our economy, but the work on prevention and good knowledge of personal finances is very central. Here the school is an important arena. The Consumer Ombudsman and Finans Norway have developed an online learning tool for the personal economy, and the government has contributed to several actions in this area. Last fall, Finans Norway launched the «School Menu», a website with many different training tools in personal economy. Yesterday I participated with, among others. Young Entrepreneurship on a theme day on personal finances at Edvard Munch high school and met 800 dedicated students who were going to learn about personal finances. It is also important that there is a way out when economic problems have arisen. The Debt Scheme Act, which is designed to help those most affected by debt problems, is an important instrument that we are constantly working to develop and improve. I am pleased with the representative's commitment in this area and can assure that it is an engagement that both me and the government share.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1258	Thanks for the answer. In dealing with the state budget one year ago, both the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party expressed particular concern about the increase in payment notes and debt collection cases among young people. On the other hand, from the government parties there was silence in both the budget and the comments. Now it's been another year. As the Council of State had in mind in its answer, figures from the Financial Supervisory Authority show that the consumption debt is increasing by almost 10 p.m. annual. Today it's about 100 billion. kr. Half of this debt is related to young people aged 18 to 26. The concern we expressed last year is still very real. It is good that the aim is now to deal with a debt register case in 2017, but from the government drew the red-green debt register proposal and up to this year, the consumption debt among the Nordics has increased by 25 p.m., and with a particularly large increase among young people. What are the thoughts of the Council of State about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1263	Like the representative, I am concerned that this increase is taking place especially among young people. We know there are numbers that show that young people between the ages of 18 and 25 now have about this year. 1 billion. kr in consumer debts, and that is worrying. Debt records are one of these measures. One of the most important things we can do for young people is to provide them with information about and good training in the personal economy. It is important that it is put on the agenda at school, and I am very happy that many schools are doing this now. School Menu.no, which Finans Norway has launched, and economists.no, with which the government has been and funded, are involved in providing teachers with tools to teach young people what debt collection means, what effective and nominal interest rates are, and what it means to take up credit card and consumption debts. These are expensive liabilities that are important for young people to be aware of and to have sufficient information about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1270	If the interests of the government parties in last year's state budget treatment were labs, we were equally active. We also called for measures to be taken against the aggressive marketing of loans and credit. Now we're on our way into another Christmas deal month where it's lured with quick and simple loans and credit solutions. A quick search on the Internet, for example, gives the following words are added: «Direct credit cards for Christmas trade» and «Christmas trade in consumer loans, consumer loans on the day». The latter refers to consumer loans as the optimal solution when one wonders how to afford to shop everything you need for Christmas. As I said, this was also pointed out last year. The question is then: What has the Council of State done from last year to this year to avoid this year's Christmas trade contributing to further indebtedness and more payment problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1275	I would like to stress that we all have a personal responsibility for the situation we are facing, but I am, like the representative, concerned that there is an aggressive marketing of credit that can be a burden on too many. That is why it was important for us to have an investigation into the scope for action we had against EU legislation in order to regulate and tighten the regulatory framework for aggressive marketing. We have now received this report, and it shows that we have a clear room for action. There's something the government will follow up to see how it's going to be followed up on. The Minister of Finance has also looked at proposing stricter procedures for invoicing credit cards and the obligation to reject applications for such cards if the credit rating so requires. It is very important for me to make it clear that both in next year's budget proposal and this year's government has referred to more measures in this area, which I am now launching.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1285	‘The Rural Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, LHL, has purchased Vertical Health AS for nearly 400 million. kr. With this, a group model with so-called vertical integration enters the Norwegian healthcare system, where a patient organisation becomes the owner of both a private hospital and a health insurance company that generates patients for them. In the Netherlands health insurance companies are either owned or strictly regulated by the country. Does the Council of State see any fundamental challenges with this new design in the Norwegian health sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1292	Questions concerning legislation relating to these types of company concessions addressed by the representative are initially questions which fall within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance since the Minister of Finance is responsible for insurance activities. So I can't really go into this. However, I share the concern of the bigotry representative. The fact that the same company or group owns both hospital and health insurance activities may provide some unfortunate incentives that are not desirable either for the sector as such or for the patients. However, Norway has a quite different approach to the health sector from that in the Netherlands. It's also a relationship you have to take into account. The Dutch health system is based on a compulsory insurance scheme. From 2006, all residents were required to take out health insurance from a private insurance company, and the need for regulation is therefore quite different from that in Norway. There is a broad consensus in Norway about protecting our public-funded healthcare solution, where the population receives equitable distribution of healthcare as needed and pays on the basis of ability above the tax bill – not through insurance schemes. In the future, the vast majority of patients will be treated in public hospitals. We have also, among others: through the introduction of free choice of treatment, improved public-funded healthcare through greater freedom of choice and access to private health services, but nevertheless funded by the public on the side of insurance schemes. This reform gives patients more freedom of choice, reduces waiting time and stimulates public hospitals. The question that the representative raises is an important question that I hope the political parties and the Stortinget can also discuss further, because one looks here at a new situation that we probably have not been prepared for in Norway, and which is also the basis for discussing the principal aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1303	I thank you for your answer. I see that the insurance industry is regulated by the Minister of Finance, but this is largely a discussion about how we should use public funding for treatment. We are now in a situation where a patient organisation will be able to communicate its own members through an insurance company and directly to a self-employed hospital where the public actually pays for the treatment in a good number of cases. It's in itself a new situation. That is why we should look at competition law and how we should regulate, if necessary, because in Norway, too, popular protection is an insurance scheme, just that we pay zero. In the Netherlands, all residents are required to pay. But there are the insurance companies agents on behalf of the patients and the buyers of the actors. The further question is whether the Council of State will take this into account in terms of money use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1310	Our agreements with LHL and other private and non-profit actors have been reached through either long-term contracts or tenders. These are things that I think are quite well regulated. Vertical health insurance is a company that, as I understand it, both brokers and pays for treatment and also guides patients in finding out publicly funded offers. LHL is also a patient organisation that has the task of caring for patients’ interests. Here, then, there are three different purposes that come together in the same organisation. It is a situation that I believe has not been provided for in the legislation we have today, and has therefore not been part of the political discussion. I believe that the representative's question should be the beginning of a discussion on the principal aspects of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1315	Private health insurance was part of the 2013 election campaign and was partly behind the Right's desire to introduce free treatment choices – along with growing health cows. Free treatment options are now being introduced and are currently not being used by patients. Private providers in the health sector have not yet taken a great deal of interest and would like to point out that the economic conditions are not good enough. It may be an indication that access to patients is good enough for the private, either because patients will pay for themselves, or that there are insurance schemes that generate patients at a good price. Finally, my follow-up question is whether the Council of State is concerned that the choice of treatment has not been sufficiently successful in competing with private health insurance – which seems to be growing further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1322	My commitment to the free choice of treatment has been to increase patients' freedom of choice and to use the free capacity of private individuals. So far this year there are about 1,000 patients who have received help through the scheme. There are 1,000 individuals — several of them in drug and mental health — who have received faster help and who have not least been able to choose help. I think that is positive. There are now about 50 different private operators who have signed up and applied to participate in the scheme, 30 of them have been approved. I am convinced that the scheme is going to increase in use, but it is not a goal in itself that as much as possible get help through free treatment choices. The aim is that patients have choices and that they get help quickly. As a result, 80,000 fewer patients are in line, waiting times go down, and most patients will naturally choose first of all to receive treatment in their local hospitals, if they have acceptable waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1330	‘The Minister of Health has introduced what is called a reform, which is to bring funds from public hospitals to private actors, as well as to implement ABE cuts in healthcare. For Southern hospitals, this means that they are in a critical economic situation. Revmatological department was asked to cut off their offers, which would go beyond the chronicler groups and especially women. Such measures reinforce the inequalities in healthcare. What action has the Council of State taken to prevent inequalities in the provision of health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1337	First, I put a question mark on the causal link that the representative here raises. This government, through its four government proposals, has facilitated and financed a higher rate of growth in patient treatment than the previous government has been able to achieve in some of its eight. It is also the case that free treatment choices are an important reform, even in the light of what the representative addresses as a topic, namely inequality. That's why the government and the cooperation parties have been very clear about prioritizing that these extended patient rights should first apply to patients with drug dependence and mental health challenges, because it is precisely in the area we see the greatest inequality in Norwegian healthcare and in our society in terms of health. A person who is addicted to drugs and has mental health challenges has an average life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than the population otherwise. I record that the Workers' Party is now going to choose to weaken the patient rights of this patient group. The representative then takes up the subject area of Revmatology at the Sørlande Hospital. This is a subject of strong development. The introduction of biological medicinal products in the treatment of Revmatological Diseases has resulted in better predictions and improved quality of life for patients. This type of medical development is an example of the need to change hospitals all the way, and to change the way they work, because drug treatment provides a smaller need for the patient to be hospitalised 24 hours a day, and less need for beds, and patients can be more likely to live at home and be followed up by outpatient services. Southern hospitals are now in a budgetary process for 2017 and will, like all other hospitals, consider how they can best use their overall resources to provide the best possible range of services for all patients. Revmatology is a changing area where patients can be treated more effectively outpatiently, while also seeing that we have the opportunity to switch medicines – to biosimilar medicines. It makes it possible to see that this is an area where we can get better results using less resources. Then it's up to the local hospital administrator to ensure that the resources benefit other patients who have a lot of needs. It is also in line with the priority message that Stortinget joined last night.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1348	So while the richest people can get the most out of the more than 20 billion in tax cuts, Southland hospitals have to deal with roughly 70 million. kr less than that promised by the Right. It is true, as the Council of State says, that the hospital is now in the financial evaluation of next year's budget, and that is a rather critical situation for many. The feedback I get is that it's at the expense of the profession, they're afraid that professionals are going to go to private, because there's been a more liberal economy. Revmatological department in Kristiansand is in the process of ‘cracking’, writing a superior in the Fedrelandsvenn yesterday. The Revmatik Association has been out in the media and has expressed serious concern about the situation at Sørlande Hospital in respect of revmatology. What will the Minister do to ensure that this crackdown stops, and what will he do to reassure patients and employees and assure them that this crackdown will not continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1355	As I explained in my first answer, it is so that Revmatology is a subject that is changing. This means that the way you have worked in the past is abandoned for the benefit of the patient, because providing outpatient medication is a better option than the old way of working. While often politically discussing that new treatment methods lead to increased costs for hospitals, we are here in the fantastic situation that new treatment methods are cheaper for the hospital and for society, while providing better results for patients. Change is difficult – in all types of activities, change is difficult. But change is also often necessary, not least by ensuring that the principles behind the priority are followed, and that we use the resources of society for health in such a way that we contribute to the best possible years of life for as many people as possible. It also sometimes means moving resources when it is possible to use resources better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1362	I note that this Council of State is also pointing downwards in the system, pointing to local leaders who are going to implement the cuts that come from the department's political responsibility. This too, that change is difficult, has become a mantra for those who are responsible. Taxutt, which creates no more jobs, red tape reform that creates no fewer bureaucrats, but on the contrary more, election vows to hospitals that are not followed up, and commercialization, which draws the economy and resources out of public hospitals – that is the Workers' Party against. But these are conscious choices that this government has put in place. The Ministry of Justice has informed the Committee that they do not follow up on this reform, the red tape reform, with reporting or monitoring to monitor its impact. So my question to councillor Höie is: is the government council following up on the consequences of cutbacks to prevent more bureaucrats getting too weak groups in health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1367	The representation of the situation given by the representative here is not really messed up. What's the situation, is that this government has been able to prioritise a higher rate of growth in patient treatment in all four of our draft government budgets than the previous government has been able to in some of its eight. The second is that when you look at the economic space, it's not primarily used for tax havens. It is primarily used to strengthen the welfare of municipalities, to facilitate higher growth in patient care in hospitals and to invest for the future in research, development and infrastructure. That's absolutely necessary. At the same time, we see that it is not just that hospitals have received more money, but that they also receive more patient treatment out of the money. Eighty thousand fewer patients are now in line than are on the Labour Party's watch. Waiting times go down and more people get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1377	‘Altapost on 25 April 2016 stated that the four directors of health care establishments had taken a decision on the air ambulance in an AD meeting. According to the newspaper Dølen, the same AD meeting on 14 November 2016 took a new decision on the Ambulance Flows. The AD meeting is not a formal body, nor is it a case list, decision or referendum public. Is it in line with the law that directors of healthcare professionals can make important decisions about people’s health services other than ordinary management and public access?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1384	The AD meeting is a forum where the four managing directors of health regions can discuss issues of common interest, including: the need for joint governance. In order to ensure an equivalent range of services across health regions, it is necessary to cooperate on common governance issues and strategies prior to regional case preparation and governance. This also applies to matters relating to the joint ventures. The AD meeting is not a formal body and has no decision-making power. The authority to take decisions lies in the different regional health establishments, where the anchoring and involvement of trustees and the protection service takes place. The boards of directors of undertakings decide matters which are not within the scope of day-to-day operations. To the extent that decisions are taken at the AD meeting, each Executive Director shall take a decision within the limits of the powers conferred on him by his or her Governing Board. Paragraph 26a of the Health Business Act provides that meetings of the Board of Directors are, as a general rule, to be held for open doors. The deliberations of the members of the Management Board and the basis on which they are based are therefore public. The meetings in which the administration participates as part of the preparation of the case for the consideration of the Management Board shall not be public. In this specific case, the individual Executive Director has taken decisions to outsource the basis of competition for the provision of ambulance air navigation services. This has been done within the authority granted by the Management Board. For example, in the acquisition of ambulance helicopter services: the power of Health Nord RHF granted in the case of the Board of Directors, 86-2016/2, and was thus formulated as follows: ‘The Governing Board shall ask the Executive Director to complete the acquisition in cooperation with the other regional health establishments within the general powers in his capacity’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1400	I have previously addressed written questions about what I get many feedback from trustees in healthcare professionals about, that they perceive that AD meetings in practice become more and more a forum where decisions are taken – if not formally, then in practice there is where decisions are taken without a warrant for neither anchoring nor involving the trustees. This is a case that shows that the device on the air ambulance has made a lot of commitment in the north, and my question is whether the Health Council sees that this may seem unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1405	What is important is that the Executive Directors carry out their duties within the powers conferred on them by the Management Board and the responsibilities they have for their day-to-day operations. That's part of their job. The preparations for the Governing Board are the clear guidelines for this. In this specific case, there has been considerable public work around it, with consultations and meetings with municipalities, which have also resulted in changes in what was originally proposed, precisely because one has had good processes where one has also listened to the population. So it's like there's employee representatives on the boards. The staff representatives of the Governing Boards participate in these discussions, which shall include the powers of the Executive Director. It is also in the context of their ability to influence that kind of question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1414	So the state council doesn't see anything problematic about the practice of health professionals in AD meetings, and the state council doesn't see anything problematic either when he learns that trust leaders around the country actually view AD meetings as a democratic problem so that they can't fully do their job as trustees. I have been contacted by trustees from different parts of the country, and I think it is quite special when it is also mentioned in the newspapers that the AD meeting actually makes decisions. So I want to ask again if the Council of State does not see anything problematic about these feedbacks, which I am at least bringing forward here, and if the Council of State thought it was entirely right for the managing directors to receive authority from the board in such an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1419	I am not familiar with any of the worrying issues associated with the meetings of the four directors of health regions to coordinate their work. And it is quite clear that there is work to be done within the powers they have as responsible for day-to-day operations, and within the powers that the boards have given them. The Management Board of Health Regions is responsible for assessing the types of powers they wish to grant to the Executive Director, and there are open processes, in which employee representatives also have insight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1429	‘In 2011, opposition politician Höie, according to the NRK, ‘was concerned that the increase in private health insurance leads to a classed healthcare system, where, without private arrangements, they literally end up at the bottom of the health queue. In the 2013 election campaign, we learned that with the right’s proposal for health reform, ‘day’s health insurance would essentially fall away’. In 2016, the record height had 481,000 private health insurance. Does the Council of State Höie agree that the increase in private health insurance makes a classed health care system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1436	There is a broad consensus in Norway that it is important to protect our solution, which is a publicly funded healthcare service where the population is fairly distributed health care as needed, and pays by capacity over the tax bill. We have never – and I have never – taken for granted that people do not want to buy private health insurance. Too many factors contribute to this development – not least that the insurance industry will always adapt its products to any situation. What I have been concerned about is that patients should not feel the need – and feel the need – to have private health insurance to cover the necessary health care, which we have agreed jointly to be the responsibility of the public. It will be a development that over time undermines the basis of our model, which I am concerned about protecting about. That is why one of the solutions to the Right is to give patients who are a member of the population greater freedom of choice — including to use private health services, but funded by the public, equal to everyone. Figures from Finance Norway show that around 481,000 persons had health insurance at the end of the second quarter of 2016, an increase of less than 80000 since the end of 2013. Under the previous government, the number of insured persons increased by more than 100000 between 2010 and 2011. This was a very serious development. Therefore, this government has introduced free treatment options. The reform gives patients greater freedom of choice and reduces waiting times for public hospitals and organises work in new ways. We give patients the right to choose treatment at approved private, but on public account. In addition, we have asked health regions to buy more of the private available capacity through tenders. Priority should also be given to public hospitals. Therefore, the government has facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment in our four state budgets, compared to what the red-green was adopted through its eight. We have also removed the activity gap in public hospitals, so that those with free capacity and new ways of organizing work have the opportunity to treat more patients. The result is good. Waits go down. Eighty thousand fewer patients are in line now than under the previous government. At the same time, we see that in 2015 we were in a situation where more than 1 million more investigations, controls and treatments were carried out in healthcare, compared to the end of 2012. It is important to protect a good public health service, precisely in order to prevent negative developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1457	I note that the Council of State will not answer my question, which was whether he still thinks as in 2011, that health insurance increases the class distinction in society. It's probably like with many of the other promises, Höie joined the opposition – it can be difficult to deliver when one comes to government. I'm thinking, for example. in the 12 billion that he promised Norwegian hospitals. Let me therefore ask again whether what Höie in opposition said in 2013, that with the Right in government, the need for private health insurance will fall away. But with Höie as Minister of Health, almost 80 000 more now have private health insurance. Where is the Council of State not closed, when even more people now feel that they need such insurance? What measures will the Minister put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1464	With respect, I don't think there's a lack of answers to the question, because I answered it very clearly. I meant before and still believe that it would be very unfortunate if the population felt that to feel safe to get the necessary health care, that is, the health care that we as a community have agreed to be publicly funded, a person must have private health insurance. We saw a record growth in private health insurance under the previous government, and there was reason to worry about that. I believe that the answer to that is just to ensure that the population experiences reasonable waiting times and greater freedom of choice in public health care. That's exactly what this government has done, with good results, in terms of shorter waiting time, fewer patients who have to stand in line, more getting help. Growth in private health insurance has begun to decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1471	A SINTEF analysis in 2015 showed that private health insurance did not reduce sick leave in companies that drew them. Studies show that there are mainly private employers who take out health insurance for their employees. Is the Council of State concerned about adding to the public sector to have poorer supply than to be added to the private sector, thereby reducing the attractiveness of the public sector? That's my question. And I would also like to remind the Council of State that Stoltenberg took away the tax deduction that the Bondevik government had introduced in just health insurance, to make them less attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1478	The latter had a very limited effect, since we subsequently received record growth in private health insurance. I do not want, as I have said, a development in which people feel that having private health insurance should provide security to get the kind of health care that the public has agreed that we should offer. But the insurance industry will always adapt. For example, in a situation where people no longer experience excessive waiting time at a hospital, the insurance industry is likely to fill health insurance with content in areas where we, for example: has agreed that this is not a public responsibility. What is left – and the Workers' Party’s – answer to this is to deprive patients of freedom of choice. For the first time, the Workers' Party is going to choose to weaken patient rights. The Labour Party has always fought against patients' rights, but that's the first time they choose to remove patients' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1492	‘Social inequality has an impact on the chance of survival of cancer. High - income lung cancer patients had 66 pst. more likely to be operated on than those with low income, cf. Kreftregisteret 2016, data 2002–2011. Yngvar Nilssen in the Cancer Register points out that “In general, we know that those who are operated have a much better prognosis than those who are not operated on.” How is the inequality in cancer treatment now, and can the Council of State live with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1499	No, I think we can't live with these kinds of results, just because it's an expression of social inequality in terms of health. Although you can always discuss this type of study, I think the results you see here are quite clear. This is why it is as important as the Storting adopted yesterday, a prioritisation message setting clear criteria, principles for prioritisation, systems for prioritisation – precisely in order to provide a fair distribution of healthcare to the whole population. At the same time, we see that, among other things, within the cancer area, there have been very wide variations in what patients have been allocated. There has been a concern that some patients for different reasons, such as: that they are resource-intensive or have longer education, have fought more for their rights than other patients. That's why it was important for me, for this government and our cooperation parties, to introduce a cycle of cancer packages, just as an instrument to reduce this difference. These figures are from 2011, i.e. before the package sequences were introduced. Packing processes provide patients with a much greater predictability, a much greater certainty as to the type of treatment they receive, and better information. Not least, a coordinator is now responsible for providing patients with help and examination at the time they are to be. It should contribute to less variation and less social inequality — problems we have seen. Other tertiary 2016 shows that for lung cancer got 62.8 pst. of patients in the course of the package examination and treatment in line with the time of the package. I think it's a good start. The goal is for us to go over 70 p.m., and I hope that the hospitals will do it in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1516	Package trajectories are exactly the same for us as the Council of State. The cancer strategy on which the package trajectories were based was clear when the Council of State joined. Then it had quite a complete course of patients. I agree with the Council that the package is a ‘catchy’ and a good word. The point is, it has to work. I want some thoughts from the Council of State about the package sequences. They ensure treatment in case of suspicion of cancer and provide the same check-out and course for all. It is a good quality enhancement – we fully agree on that. But when cancer is suspected, how can you prevent the starting point for each individual to enter into the first agreement with his permanent resident? How does the Council of State say that this government prevents the social inequalities that make you different when you meet with your permanent resident who suspects cancer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1523	First of all, the history description is not correct. When the Right Party and the Progressive Party, in the opposition, proposed to introduce a package trajectory in Norway, the red-green parties voted it down. The previous Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, said on TV 2 that Norway has nothing to learn from Denmark in the field of cancer. That was wrong. It shows the introduction of the package sequence. I can assure the representative that everyone who was involved in the enormous work it was to establish a package before the introduction, felt that this was a completely different mission than what was given through the previous government's cancer strategy. It's also given very good results. That the Workers' Party now supports this way of thinking about cancer, I think it is positive, but I still record the Workers' Party's resistance to the package process when, for example, they do. are opposed to the introduction of package pathways for those who may have the greatest need – people with a mental health challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1530	We don't want to call mentally ill people packages. We'll probably come back to that debate. For mentally ill people, too, the Workers' Party wants a complete course of patients with predictable rights. We may not agree on the history, but I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on the prioritisation message that he himself referred to. We know that uncritical screening for detecting cancer can lead to findings that need to be clarified further, and takes a lot of resources from the treatment system. That's one of the reasons why you're very careful when revising the screening program. It is also the case that many private providers offer such services as screening. To what extent does the Minister of Health think that any over-treatment resulting from the private offer of screening may affect the inequality in healthcare that we see today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1537	One of the reasons why we have introduced a national screening programme and system is precisely to avoid the kind of unfortunate outcomes that the representative here addresses, and to ensure that when we introduce a screening programme, it is the proper use of resources, that we reach those in the risk zone, that resources are used in a way that just contributes to several good years of life for the entire population, that we do not risk strengthening the variety and misuse of health resources. I consistently use the word ‘variation’ instead of overconsumption. The challenge in the Norwegian healthcare system is the variation, that is, that some people get too little, others get too much. It is now part of the task of the entire specialist health service to work with reducing unwanted variation. We see that the approach to this, based on a variational bias, results quite differently from the traditional approach of the Workers' Party, which is about over-treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1547	‘Various privatisation measures such as: Free choice of treatment helps to pool resources in the health sector in the most central areas and gives commercial actors the freedom to decide for themselves where to establish and which patient groups to offer, with the right to be paid by the public. Does the Council of State see that this can create distortions in health services that are not in line with the desired priorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1554	The choice of treatment is not a privatisation measure. Privatisation is about leaving the patient to pay for, find and organise their health services themselves. It is not free treatment choice – on the contrary. There is also no free treatment option that allows you to establish where you want to and treat whomever you want. It has always been that way for those who pay the treatment themselves. Now we make sure that several patients are allowed to choose without paying for themselves. Therefore, the choice of treatment is an important reform to strengthen the choice of patients in a publicly funded healthcare system. The free choice of treatment is a broad reform aimed at reducing waiting times, increasing freedom of choice and contributing to the faster and better provision of public hospitals to patients. The main effect of the scheme will be precisely at public hospitals because they have been given more opportunity to treat more patients, and also because they purchase more of the free capacity privately, through tenders. It benefits all patients. Free treatment options are also an instrument to reduce the overall waiting time. It's not a tool to move cows between hospitals and private ones. Free treatment choice patients are rated in public hospitals or in private with the authority to grant user rights to patients. The same principles of guidance for priorities in other specialist healthcare apply also to providers of free choice of treatment. When a service is considered to be phased in free treatment, it is an important criterion that there is no risk of a transfer of competences from public to private activities, which may result, for example: a significant risk of deterioration in the ability of the public specialist healthcare service to fulfil its tasks in terms of both patient treatment, education, research and patient training in hospitals. The service is phased into the scheme gradually, and its development is closely monitored. Although in general private individuals are likely to have a tendency to establish where people live densely, where it is easiest to recruit health professionals, and where it is also easiest for patients to get to, the free choice provider is available to all patients throughout the country. As in the case of free choice of hospitals, the extent to which a patient uses free choice of treatment will vary, and how far a patient must travel to use such an offer. One year after the reform came into force, we see that free treatment choice providers are located in both central and less central districts. Therefore, the claim of the representative is not correct. We find approved private in the scheme in Hedalen, Finnsnes, Avaldsnes and Røros. These are not areas I think the representative Knutsen would describe as the most central ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1573	The Health Minister now provided some information that was very interesting, for in the past he has said that the only thing you need is professional recognition to get into the system of free treatment choices. It was also said, when we dealt with it, that no social or health policy considerations should be taken into account. But these are actors that establish themselves based on what kind of patients are the profitable, at least the commercial ones. In Denmark, in 2007, the civil government introduced a system similar to free choice of treatment and then dropped it after three years because it led to a significant increase in the cost of services. There was also a distortion of resource use, which went in a direction that did not match health policy priorities. But we have a good office that has dampened the market power of the scheme, and less than 1,000 patients have been treated so far. But if we were to see a development like that in Denmark, and the decision of the Storting on priorities – taken in the Stortinget – being challenged, will the Minister of Health put a roof on the number of treatments or put it away?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1580	The free choice of treatment is now part of patients’ rights — it has been decided by the Stortinget — it is part of the Patient Rights Act. It gives patients greater opportunities to choose between different treatment options, including when they want to. shorter waiting time. However, in the area of drugs and mental health, which are the two major areas of free treatment choice, there are often different considerations that patients focus on than necessarily just waiting time. They have e.g. a strong desire to choose a treatment site that has a treatment philosophy that is in line with what they themselves want. I think that has great self-esteem. Then it's not for me to count a certain number, because I believe that for each of them to now slightly less than 1000 patients who have been given this opportunity, this reform is of great value. I record that the Workers' Party is going to choose to remove this value and the possibility from these patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1585	Thanks for the answer. The working party has increased patients' freedom of choice, and we will continue to do so. There is no right for patients to be taken away, but commercial treatment rights may need to be addressed. I believe that the Minister of Health must stop talking about the 1000 people who have been treated have not been put in line, because there is no fresh money in this scheme. They are taken from the public hospitals, as well as from public money used for administration. The Minister of Health also knows that the waiting times in Norwegian hospitals have gone down steadily for all treatments since 2010. He's talking about 80,000 fewer in line. Yes, we just heard that 160,000 patient treatments were being pushed into so-called internal queues at the hospitals. This does not mention the Minister of Health. My question is: we see that private individuals establish themselves centrally – whether or not the Council of State mentions these places. Does the State Council follow where patients come from – purely geographically – in free choice of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1596	Firstly, waiting times are falling considerably. For the slots, the waiting time has been reduced by 40 pst. It's a completely different development than that one under the previous government. There are now 80,000 fewer patients in line. It is quite right that the Workers' Party was able to take back some of the waiting time they themselves had managed to create at the beginning of their government period, at the end, but the waiting time was still higher when they left the government offices, than when they went into the government offices. The waiting lists were longer when they left the government offices than when they went into the government offices. The right to free hospital election voted against the Workers' Party. The right of patients to have a medical deadline for treatment was a right that the Workers' Party fought against. Patients' rights in Norway are mainly fought by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – with resistance from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1608	«Gothermen and girls in Norway continue to choose education and occupation very traditionally. It in turn affects future opportunities for pay, career and full-time work versus part-time work. The Labour Party believes it is time to make more systematic efforts to do something about traditional educational choices. We joined the Christian People's Party in promoting a recruitment strategy in the gender equality message that was treated last spring. What will the Council of State do to contribute to gender equality in the field of education selection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1615	Norwegian boys and girls, women and men are highly gender-traditional when they make educational and professional choices. It is particularly evident in vocational and vocational training in secondary and in some disciplines of higher education. I agree with the Aasen representative that equality is important, and the government prioritises this, among other things. by following up the gender equality message. The Ministry of Knowledge has initiated follow-up work with two requests decisions in the treatment of the gender equality message. Firstly, we want to look at national rules on quotas for higher education admissions. In cooperation with the Education Directorate, we will explore how admission rules can contribute to better gender balance in higher education, and come back to the Stortinget in an appropriate way. Secondly, we have started work on figuring out the design and introduction of extra points for higher education studies where there is a large overrepresentation of one gender. I've asked universities and colleges to record proposals for more education that might need such additional credits to achieve a better gender balance. In particular, the current equality law aims to improve the position of women, and this means that the Ministry of Knowledge is not currently able to set a quota for men nor to give men additional credits for all studies where they are strongly underrepresented. The draft new equality law has been consulted and the draft provides for special treatment for men. As a result, special treatment can be provided for both ways. It is therefore necessary to follow up the request for additional points for men following the examination of the new law on equality in the spring of 2017. Moreover, in higher education there are a number of measures in place and developments are moving in the right direction. Most universities and colleges are actively working to improve gender balance in their studies, and many of the institutions have recruitment measures and stimulation projects. However, the government cannot change the traditional educational choices and the gender-based labour market alone. The incentives available to the Ministry of Knowledge are hardly enough alone. These are issues that need to be resolved jointly and are therefore also discussed with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1628	Girls do better at school. Guys have a lot bigger drop-out from high school. There are hardly any boys on design and crafts or health. There are hardly any girls in electrical, construction, construction. The same applies to the subject schools. The trend is equal, but not as strong in higher education. I feel that the Council of State has an involvement in this matter, but I may as well experience that the concrete measures are not so many. The ones he refers to, are about extra points, study points, which the majority of people ordered the government to introduce, which the Right Party and the Advance Party are not interested in. Does the Council agree that there are good tools to be used, and is there any other means to be used in school – not with the social partners, but in school – to address our gender equality challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1633	I initially agree with the Right and Advance Party on the Stortinget. Now, there might be a little difference between the two parties, but the right traditional attitude has been a scepticism for sex-quotaing, but not dogmatic resistance. It is worth remembering that it was a Right-Minister of Industry – duly debated in his own party – who launched e.g. 40 pst. gender quotaing in the ASA controllers. I think the problem with sex quotas is that very many times it's not an instrument that actually addresses the problem. If you look at e.g. The veterinary study, one will see that the reason there is so crooked recruitment there, is not about different scores, it is not additional points that apply, but it is simply because there are initially fewer boys than girls who are applying. I think the new framework plan renewal in school provides an opportunity to attract more girls to the real subjects, by showing better what real science can be used for, as an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1640	One in four teachers is men, but rarely in high school. In kindergartens is 8.5 pst. Men, and at psychology at the University of Oslo is 11 pst. men, of those who were graduated in 2015, are at least ever the lowest. All of these should work closely on people, by all genders. I believe that such a biased gender distribution in these types of groups is particularly unfortunate, and in my view it goes beyond the quality of services, and it does not give real choice in situations where gender matters. Often our own attitudes stand in the way of making the necessary decisions, and then I want to read the following: ‘If we look at girls’ educational choices, they probably often perceive real science as remote and inefficient to contribute to something good in the world. Therefore, it is important to demonstrate that real science also has soft values.’ These are the Council of State's own words in the VG six months after he became the Council of State. Does the Council of State still insist that real science is remote from reality and does not contribute to anything good in the world, and that it needs to be of great value for girls to take an interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1652	Now Marianne Aasen is mistaken, at least when she paraphrases what I'm saying. I'm not saying that it's real or that it has nothing to say for the world. However, there have been several reports that have pointed out that one possible reason for the poor recruitment of girls and women to real and technology subjects is that girls, to a lesser extent, probably for cultural reasons, perceive it as relevant to areas in which they are interested. Then, of course, there's something dangerous about such reasoning too, because it can easily lead to one thinking that one must have a separate type of real-life education for girls, but our starting point is that girls in Norway have no weaker real-life outcomes than the boys. In other words, there are no professional barriers for them to choose, for example. depression in mathematics and physics. There must be something else, and then the gender score will be a terrible poor solution. It's probably about culture and maybe what you're interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1663	The question to the Minister for Fisheries is: ‘The use of chemicals against salmonids has exploded in recent years. After use, chemicals are discharged into the sea. On 10 November, NRK Focus referred to how a shrimp fisherman has been damaged as a result of this. He reported the practice and the investigation showed a breach of the pollution law. The matter was nevertheless settled on the basis that the emissions appear to have been accepted by the professional authorities. Can the Council of State guarantee that he will intervene and stop the discharge of harmful chemicals into the sea?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1672	The question has a serious character. Focus has focused on several current issues and challenges related to current aquaculture production. Several of these challenges have been, and have, high priority, and will be of high priority, both in management and in research. I think I have been quite clear and quite clear that growth in the aquaculture industry should be environmentally sound. Leaktus is the biggest environmental challenge we see in the farming industry today, but our researchers and research communities have at least not been able to demonstrate any link between the use of medicinal products in breeding and shrimp mortality. I, and the government, despite not having full evidence of anything at all, have, on the basis of a precautionary principle and a precautionary approach, assessed and assessed different measures to reduce potential negative environmental impacts, and I have also consulted several proposals. For the sake of fish health and well-being, I will not – and I do not think there is a political majority for it – prohibit the use of medicinal products in the sea, but we must all ensure that the use of medicinal products is done in a proper way, and a ban may also be complicated by the emergence of new medicinal products that may in the long term help us in this challenge. Lacetus is a crustacean, and that the drugs that are made to combat salmonmus will also affect crustaceans in the vicinity of farming, of course, are natural. There's no doubt about it, but we don't know enough, and what we don't know enough about is how and to what extent the use of laxatives in the sea affects crustaceans, other plankton and small fish in the vicinity. So far, research indicates that effects are short-lived, as dilution, degradation and inactivation of lice agents are rapid, except for the substance called flubenzuron. I have therefore proposed specific restrictions on their use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1681	Thank you to the Council of State for a real and promising answer. The key point is that these laxatives are designed to destroy crustaceans, and everything suggests a very strong precautionary attitude in terms of dumping that type of substance in the natural environment. We have long received messages from shrimp fishermen and others who believe that this has an effect, so I have great expectation of how the council follows up this. But then we have leachy in the mermaids. The Food Safety Authority just notified a plant in Trøndelag with 60-90 lice per fish – high above the borders of the State Councils themselves. This is a situation which, in my career, as occupied with breeding, has repeated countless times despite promises of the opposite. In view of these developments, does the Council of State continue to believe that a five-fold increase in the size of the industry is appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1690	A new growth regime from 2017 will be in place, and within it, there will be a framework that is very strict in terms of getting growth in the future. Now the industry is not entirely in line with the government and the state council in relation to what is there. I have also made an offer for the industry with a 5 pst. growth based on very, very tight conditions in the case of lice, because it is licectusa that is a criterion for future growth. So it's not the Council of State or the government who think there are possibilities for a five-fold. It is the research communities that are aware that there is an opportunity in the future to have a five-fold increase in the export value of seafood, but it also involves a lot of other things – technology development and what goes on – it is not just salmon alone, but the quality of white fish, among other things, there are many things in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1695	I notice that the Council of State says that it is not he who believes that it is open to a five-fold increase in the farming industry – that is what we get back to. We have a very high and ominous growth of mortality in the farming industry, and the basic problem of the farming industry is that you place millions of host animals in an area where there is a natural parasite that is growing enormously, is taken with lice and responds with evolution, and we are in a situation that will only be resolved by the physical or other separation of the host animals, i.e. the farmed salmon. There is no other long-term biological solution to it. Does the Council agree that the time has come to go hard for closed installations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1705	Let me just make it clear first: I'm not the one who said that it's possible to have a five-fold in the first place, it's the research that has been used by the Stortinget, which has followed up this through the Marine Communication. There's an opportunity to get a five-fold increase in value or export value within what goes on, and I follow up what the Storting has decided through the marine notification. But then I fully agree with the representative Hansson, and there I am very optimistic. The last four permits within the scope of development concessions came now. It is precisely what the representative Hansson is into, closed installations, escape closures and closures for lice, and I see a lot of applicants at this point. The supplier industry, too, is very eager and forward-looking with regard to today’s breeding pains in relation to the development of equipment that ensures this. Then this government has also assumed that it is free to establish farming facilities on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1711	Then we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1718	This question, from the representative Karianne O. Heavy to the Prime Minister, transferred to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1723	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Prime Minister – or now: the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs: ‘A society with great differences between people is more unsafe. The growth of sub-classes creates ground for forces that we do not want. ‘Norway is a society with small differences; it’s a good thing we have to work to take care of,” said Solberg in 2010. I fully agree with that. Now, Solberg is prime minister of a bourgeois government that pursues a policy that is in stark contrast to the principle of small differences. Is the Prime Minister willing to take the lead in reducing the disparities in society?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1732	Small differences in a society are a good thing, and we agree on that. Therefore, this government is pursuing a policy that contributes to the creation, by ensuring that all children are well educated, of more people coming to work, and of a well-developed safety net that helps those outside. Compared to almost all other countries, Norway has small income differences. In Norway too, income disparities have increased since the 1980s, but the increase has been much more moderate than in most other countries. Since 2009, the inequality, measured by the Gini coefficient, has increased somewhat annually. The political platform states that the government will work to ensure that Norway is a country with small differences and minimal poverty. This is followed up in the government's ongoing work in the policy areas concerned. High employment and low unemployment mean that a large proportion of the population are involved in gainful employment, which is particularly important to ensure very small income differences. Increased participation in work is the main means of preventing long-term low incomes and increasing income in the low income groups. Public transfers, together with the tax system, contribute to redistribution and to the reduction of economic inequality. Taxes also help to reduce social and economic differences by financing health, education and other welfare services. If we are to reduce inequality in the longer term, the education system must provide children and young people with basic skills and competences. Furthermore, we need to ensure a well-functioning labour market and an inclusive working life. The tax system and welfare systems must be designed to support the creation of value and high levels of participation in the labour market. Active labour market policies and coordinated wage formation contribute to the smoothing of income inequality. Norway has high levels of immigration from low-income countries. Many lack education and have weak Norwegian skills and low professional participation. This gives flow to the low income groups. In order to counter increased income disparities, it is particularly important that long-term immigrants in Norway are quickly integrated into the labour market. Integration actions, Norwegian training, rapid monitoring and recognition of foreign competence, qualification and education are important in this context. I also refer to the report of the government's follow-up to UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 10, on reducing inequality, in the 2017 budget proposal. Differences will be one of the themes of a new perspective announcement, as the government presents in spring 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1751	Thanks for the answer. I fully agree with the Council of State that our tax system contributes to redistribution, and the government's proposal for a tax system contributes to misdistribution. When you choose to spend 25 billion. This also contributes to an increase in disparities, while the rest of the population is only smoldering. We've got less paperwork, and we've got higher unemployment and greater income differences. Then I must almost allow myself to ask the same question again: Does the Council of State think that this is taking leadership to reduce the differences, or is it taking leadership to increase the differences in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1756	I don't know which companies the Tung representative is visiting at the moment, but all of the people I'm visiting are concerned that one should pursue a policy that makes it possible for them to survive in a difficult time. So when the representative talks about tax relief to those who have the most from before, we talk a lot about Norwegian-owned companies that are struggling to pay the bills, among other things. because they have a property tax that they are alone to pay, compared to enterprises owned by non-resident owners. We're dedicated to having viable businesses that can create jobs that can make people have a job to go to, and that way also has a income to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1761	It's obvious that me and the Council of State are quite disagreeable about who benefits the most from the tax cuts of the government. So I'm going to ask some other questions that make it possible for the Council of State to assess whether the differences are increasing or decreasing during this government. During this government, the quarantine period for daily allowances has increased from eight to twelve weeks, it has been cut off in the pay guarantee scheme, and the unemployed have been removed from their holiday pay. Does the Council of State think that there are now greater differences between those in employment and those without a job – or are there less differences now between those in employment and those without a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1766	Yeah, we totally disagree about taxes. I'm sure there's no company that wants that tax bill of 10 billion. kr as the Workers' Party wants to serve them. And what's important to remember now is that unemployment goes down. In 14 of the country's counties, it's lower than last year. That's good, but we're not going to lean back. On the contrary, we still need to press up to get more jobs. In the case of holiday pay, what was done was that the scheme was laid down, so that the unemployed could receive holiday money while they were out of work. In the past, the holiday money was paid the year after you got to work. We thought it was more targeted to make sure you got the holiday money while you were out of work and so they needed the money more. But the main difference between those who live in income poverty and those who don't is whether you're at work or not. It is also the background that the government is now working so hard to ensure that we are able to secure the jobs that are, but also to facilitate more jobs through the large, offensive action packages that we have presented in the last budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1775	We're going to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1783	I would like to ask the Minister for Labour the following questions: ‘There is a difference between having a regular full-time job and being a caller, having a fractional position, a part-time job or a temporary job. It's about security, the ability to establish, pay bills and live an independent life. Most of the time, women are affected by the insecurity, and in the care sector in general. Why has the government removed several important state contributions to a better full-time culture, such as concrete demands in the letters of assignment of hospitals and the full-time pot for action and attempts to create a full-time culture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1792	The government is working to increase the proportion of full-time jobs and reduce the use of involuntary and unwanted part-time work. The proportion of women working full-time has increased in the last decade — from 56 pst. up to about 63 pst. The shift from part-time to full-time work has been greatest among women with children under 16 years of age. Ten to twelve years ago, some 55 pst. Full-time, now works about 70 pst. of all women with children under 16 years of age full-time. This suggests that there are results when the theme is given attention and targeted actions such as: the development of multiple kindergartens. This positive development is important to continue. Several attempts have been carried out in recent years to provide financial support for actions aimed at contributing to increased job rates. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, in cooperation with the social partners, implemented such measures as part of the «Co-operation on a better municipality» programme. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs implemented a time-limited effort during the period 2011–2014 to provide financial support for 47 different projects. Trials have been evaluated by Fafo, and the evaluation shows that almost all measures have had a positive impact on job size. Many attempts were made to test out other working time arrangements. Experience from the involuntary part-time experiment is that increasing opportunities to adapt working time systems to the needs of workers is important in order to promote a full-time culture. The size, on a proposal from the government, has changed the provisions of the Working Environment Act so that there is greater access to solutions locally in the individual workplace, within the same framework of overall working time. Extended access to individual contract for the average calculation of working time and increased access to contract between employer and local trustees could make it easier, for example. working longer shifts a few days. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has called for the reduction of part-time use in hospitals at the company’s meetings with health enterprises. This requirement has not been withdrawn. Reduced use of part-time has been — and remains — the theme of the Ministry’s follow-up meetings with health businesses, and the use of part-time has also been reduced in all health regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1805	Thanks for the answer. It's positive that the percentage of full-time supplementation has increased. However, part-time is largely covered by unemployment. Of the part-time employees, 73 000 were classified as under-employment in the third quarter of 2016. With the cover ‘underemployment’ my Statistical Central Bureau part-time jobs that have tried to get longer working hours. Two out of three of them are women, which must be seen in conjunction with the large percentage of women working part-time. The total time they wanted to work extra now in the third quarter has been estimated by the SSB to correspond to 27,000 full-time jobs. Then I have to be allowed to ask: it doesn't help to be satisfied with the small percentage increase when there are actually 27,000 full-time jobs that are wanted out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1810	I think we agree that it is a goal that as much as possible work full time. It goes without saying that there are too many, especially women, who work less. There is poor use of resources for society, and it is also not good for individual women, who serve less than they could have done, and with the consequences it will have for them later. At the same time, we see that developments are now moving in a positive direction, especially among younger women. Kindergarten policy is probably one of the reasons, but also that it is high on the agenda. It's a cross of thought at 90 pst. of those who work part-time, do it on a voluntary basis. It is therefore important to contribute to the creation of a culture of full-time employment in those sectors where there is a high proportion of part-time employees. We also believe that the changes we made to the Working Environment Act, which made it easier for local people to decide their working hours, could also help to find more tournaments that are suitable for those who work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1821	One of the most important measures to combat involuntary part-time work has been to grant part-time work rights corresponding to what they actually work, and the right to expand their position – two measures that Right, the tradition believes, were opposed. In April, however, the Supreme Court decided that a medical nurse at a hospital in Oslo who was in 75 p.m. job, did not qualify for a full-time job when a position of 75 pst. has been issued. The Supreme Court has thus established that part-time workers cannot claim parts of a declared position in order to fill up their own position. We know that this verdict has been used in later cases. Both the LO, the Unio and the Sukepleiar Association have asked the Ministry to clean up and change the legal text so that it can be claimed that the right to take priority over parts of a published position, which was actually the intention of the law. I would like to ask: what makes the Council of State spend so long on this work? And is the Council of State actually doing this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1828	We are, as I said in my previous answer, all agree that it is a goal that as much as possible should be able to work full-time, and that those who work part-time will have the opportunity to work full-time. That is why I am also pleased that the Ministry of Health is so clear in its dialogue with health companies that they should work for full-time jobs in hospitals. We also see a positive development in all health regions. I have myself mentioned with the KS, which also employs a large proportion of part-time employees in the health and care sector in the municipalities, that it is important when they are to hire, to ensure that they offer full-time jobs. It is difficult to imagine recruiting young people to the municipal sectors if you cannot offer full-time jobs to young people at the same time, or at least as many jobs as possible. My impression from the KS dialogue is that they are also concerned about this. It must be a joint responsibility for employers who employ part-time employees to contribute to the full-time employment of more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1836	«An overall labour and social committee shares the concern for the development of increasing trends in the use of fixed-term contracts without guaranteed remuneration. During the consultation of the Committee in the context of the examination of Document 8:104 S on the prohibition of certain types of employment contracts in Norwegian registered undertakings, it was widely agreed that the intention of the Act for permanent employment is not met by these forms of contract. [[2014-2015]] What will the government do to counteract developments in the labour market where more and more people are employed without pay between jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1844	I would like to start by stressing that the government is concerned that the working life should have orderly relationships, and that regular employment should be the general rule. The Working Environment Act opens up two forms of employment: permanent and temporary. All employment must take place within the framework of these forms. The law has no definition of what is required for it to be regarded as permanent employment, but case law has said something about agreements that are too poor to involve permanent employment. The Courts may, after a specific assessment, decide whether the employment contracts are in conformity with the law or not. It is the individual employee who must bring such a case before the courts if he considers that the employment is contrary to the law. It is difficult to produce detailed, general legislation that captures all employment-related issues. I therefore believe that the courts are best placed to assess these matters on the basis of the facts. I understand that it may be difficult for those with weak links to work to go to the courts on their case. However, organisations can support each individual professionally and financially, as well as by entering into the case as a party aid. Proposals relating to the form of the contract ‘fixed employment without a guarantee’ have been raised several times here in Stortinget, both to prohibit the form of the contract, to clarify in the legislation what is permanent and temporary employment, and to ensure that all permanent employees of the manning undertakings are guaranteed remuneration. None of the proposals received a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1856	I also believe that there is no obvious answer in this case. My predecessor engaged in dialogue with the parties on the form of the contract, both in writing and orally, in the autumn of 2015, but the parties have different views and different perceptions of reality. This is some of the reasons why it is important to follow developments in forms of association in the future. I would also like to point out that we do not have the basis to say that there is a clear tendency that ‘more and more people are employed without pay between jobs’, as the questioner claims. However, we have launched several research projects to get a better overview of the relationship in Norwegian working life, and we are also following developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1859	All the experience suggests that when the government says they're following developments closely, it's not done big. We have seen that in the context of the labour market situation. But it is a little special when the Council of State — as the previous Council of State — still points out that it is the judiciary that needs to clarify the situation in relation to the law, because this is actually a law adopted by the Stortinget. And the Stortinget has said something quite clearly in connection with the adoption of the law, namely in connection with Prop. 74 L for 2011–2012, Changes to the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act, where contract forms are described on page 45: ‘Without adequate guarantees and predictability of access to employment, a ‘permanent employment’ in the agency will in reality be no more than temporary employment.’ That is what has been repeated by a Joint Committee in the examination of Document 8:104 S for 2014-2015. Then my question is once again: What will the Council of State do to follow up the expressed will of the Great Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1871	As I said in my first answer, there are no obvious, simple solutions to this. I think we all agree that we want to have as much as possible a regular job, with a fixed salary, without being able to go into periods between the jobs without pay. At the same time, I don't think anyone in this room wants to ban the manning industry. For many, this is an important supplement in the labour market, and there are also relatively few who are employed by the manpower industry. If I remember correctly, it's approx. 1 pst. employed by this industry. At the same time, we are concerned that these are schemes that should not be exploited, and therefore we have several research projects in progress to follow developments in this sector. There has been a strong increase in the past, and there has been a decrease in its use now. But as I also said in my previous answer, there is quite a lot of disagreement between the parties about how this should be, and so there is no easy solution to how to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1878	On my question about what the government will do, I have now twice not received an answer, and I consider it a signal that the government will do nothing. The Council of State refers to disagreement between the parties, but it is therefore the Stortinget that adopts Norwegian law. In adopting this law, Stortinget has been very clear about what they think about this form of employment. Doesn't the Council of States think it's a rather bold piece not to follow up what the Storting actually wants to be the understanding of the law, considering that any of the parties disagree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1885	The law says ‘fixed’ or ‘temporary’ employment, and we agree that we do not want a working life where you have a long stay between the assignments, but I have not seen any suggestion from the Storting that you want to ban temporary employment or the recruitment agencies. There are few who are employed this way today. All the time there's so much disagreement between the parties that there's no obvious answer on how to deal with it, it's hard to imagine how to make a detailed law on this. I have also not seen any concrete proposals from the Labour Party on how this should be handled, unless you want to ban the manning industry, and I have not seen any suggestions on that. I also think it would be very unfortunate to go to the step of banning the manning industry, because for most people this would be a positive entry into the labour market. It may be good for students to take advantage of this opportunity, and it is good for companies that from time to time they can use agencies to make ends meet when they have uneven assignments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1893	I allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: «The Council of State has awarded the Norwegian Working Environment Prize to journalist Gunnar Thorenfeldt. This is a well-earned price for one who has worked hard to detect increasing work environment crime. The Council of State itself received only strong criticism from the National Audit Office for ‘weak and low deterrent efforts to combat occupational crime’ in June. Do the Governments agree that it is right to characterise the government's strategy against the crime of working life as weak, slightly deterrent and thus unsuccessful?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1902	I would like to start by saying that I disagree with the government's strategy against the crime of working life that has failed. The National Audit Office’s report refers mainly to the work done before the strategy was presented, and there can be no doubt that the government is giving a very high priority to the fight against crime at work. Throughout 2015 and 2016, much has been done by the government to strengthen the fight against crime at work. We have seen a tendency for crime in the labour market to become more widespread, more serious and more complex. This has serious consequences for the workers and businesses concerned — and not least for society. Such crime may be difficult to detect. It is therefore of great value that the media focus on these kinds of issues. The Labour Crime Strategy was developed in dialogue with the social partners and contains measures in a number of areas, affecting the responsibilities of different ministries. The Prime Minister himself is at the head of the follow-up. It is of great importance that public services give priority to the fight against crime at work and that they coordinate their resources in the best possible way and exchange information between themselves. Therefore, five co-located units have been established against labour-related crime. Here, the Labour Inspectorate, the Tax Office, the Police and the Nav cooperate on joint actions to make it as difficult as possible for the criminals in the workplace. A dedicated analysis and intelligence centre has also been established, where the agencies cooperate on knowledge and intelligence to strengthen their common impact on the criminal actors. The Government is also concerned that public sector contractors and suppliers should take the lead in promoting a serious working life. Therefore, the public acquisition legislation is strengthened and new provisions will enter into force on 1 January 2017. Several measures to promote the seriousness of the construction industry are being implemented in cooperation with the parties. One of these measures is regulatory changes to prevent abuse of HMS cards, so that we get more effective supervision in the industry. In these days, the government is working on developing a revised strategy against the crime of working life. This is done in close dialogue with the parties. Work on further developing non-performing measures to combat crime at work and non-discrimination is a high priority. I would therefore rather characterise the government's strategy against labour-related crime as strengthened, more coordinated and targeted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1919	I notice that the Council of State will not accept that the strategy has failed, but it cannot be successful either as long as the work-life crime as a problem is increasing. That's exactly what's the problem, because it's the serious, organized companies, and not least the workers, who are the first to notice it when crime increases and social dumping takes hold. The Riksrevision confirms exactly the impression that many people have, that unprofessional actors are taking on a growing space for action and broadening their horizons. The report from the Riksrevision is a clear signal to the country's Minister of Labour that one must act more, wider and more forcefully. Does the Council of State believe that the current strategy against labour-life crime, which the government came into force in January 2015, is good? Is it the actual implementation that has failed? Or is it the Riksrevision that's wrong? And what might come into a new strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1928	As I said in my first answer, at least parts of the National Audit Office's report deal with the work before the strategy. There can be no doubt that the strategy we have is good. It is offensive, and it also produces good results. Through the five centres set up – the last of which was established in Trondheim in September – we get good feedback from the state agencies that the work is more coordinated, more targeted and more powerful, not least when each department places its tools in a common toolbox, because the work is more focused than if they work separately. In addition, they learn a lot from each other, and they manage through their coordinated efforts to take more than if they had worked separately. But now we're working on revising the strategy. We will present a new strategy with the parties over the New Year, and then we will see what action is to be taken, what needs to be reinforced, and what needs to be taken. We're busy having a serious work life. It serves the employees, it serves the employers, but not least serves society as a whole in a serious working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1937	I agree with the Council of State that this is serious and complicated crime being committed. Tax and tax crime, accounting sickness, fictitious evidence, corruption, financial adultery, corporate confiscation, anti-corruption, money laundering, black work, currency smuggling, human trafficking, social security fraud, fraud, document counterfeiting – yes, a number of other cases may also be mentioned. There is no doubt that the competence of the Labour Inspectorate, who exercises control, needs to be improved – the knowledge that needs to be improved. It may be interesting to hear what is coming, and what the Council of State will focus on new measures to ensure that labour-related crime does not increase to an extent, but that it actually decreases to an extent. What does the Council of State think now, before the strategy is presented, will be her main points in terms of a new strategy to prevent the rise in labour-life crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1944	To the competence of the Labour Inspectorate: We have very many competent employees in the Labour Inspectorate. But to ask if you need more competence, most of us would answer yes, without saying that you are not competent. I believe some of the major challenges ahead now, in addition to what the representative said, are just to be in the forefront of technological development and internationalisation. You've seen how the attack case in Bergen was revealed, and how technology makes it possible to commit serious crime on hidden networks. Now I'm not going to shoot out what the new strategy is going to look like. This is what we do, among other things. in collaboration with the parties, and we will work together in a second. However, it is clear that technological development and internationalisation — the consequences of increased globalisation — will also have a greater and greater impact on Norwegian working life. That's what we have to take into account in the years that are coming, and there will also be some of the areas that I think we need to focus more on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1956	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The cultural survey clearly confirms that social inequality is reflected in cultural use. The level of education, professional status, age and place of residence shall be determined. To counteract this, the Stoltenberg government initiated the cultural niche package, the walking stick, the cultural school lesson and the cultural map of youth. The current government has been eager to remove this in areas by area and has succeeded. Does the Council of State think that society is getting better at this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1965	Yes, I believe it is an important task for us politicians to stop and see if there are arrangements we can do better. I believe we have done that in this case. The government prioritises work, activity and conversion in our budgets. The work of reaching out to a large and diverse audience of cultural offerings is important to the government, and I assume that all actors and institutions are working purposefully and systematically with it as a natural part of their ordinary operation. The cultural investigation was based on the fact that democracy, justice and diversity are the values that at the overall level justify public support for cultural life. The arts and culture sector shall contribute to a living and critical public through the production of high-quality arts and culture and by reaching diverse audiences. It is an objective to ensure all access to cultural assets such as theatres, concerts, operas and museums, and to support forms of cultural activity in different groups of the population. Since 2013, we have removed some schemes that have gradually proved not to work as well as originally planned. In return, the government advocates more effective measures against social inequalities in cultural use, such as: Forces for singing, such as Talent Norway, as Kulturtanken – DKS. Singing force is an example of a system that we believe is reaching out much more. Around five sub-programmes have been built up and, through pilot projects, several thousand residents of institutions, school students, asylum seekers and refugees and residents in selected municipalities have contributed to testing models that will lead to more and better singing and culture throughout Norway. It is a project that is very successful, and is one of the projects that replaced one of the original schemes that proved not to work so well. For example, after the normal public concerts were moved to the Norwegian Cultural Council and the Concert at work was completed, the Riks Concerts could be fully focused on the conversion and upgrading of the Cultural School bag and could rather become the Cultural Tank – the DKS, just to achieve the goal of the representative, a goal that we share, how culture should reach all, not just some sections of the population who have grown up with it, who have been taught it, who have the means for it, and who prioritise it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1980	I thank you for your answer. Cultural experiences throughout the country have been important for the Workers' Party, just to counter exclusion. That is why we have great ambitions in our alternative budgets and for the time being. We know that, among other things: Young people across the country are asking for cultural experiences. In Northern, Rogaland and in several other countries, arrangements are being put in place to ensure young people, for example, in these days. fairer transport to individual cultural experiences, and they look at ways of restoring a system such as: cultural card or app for young people in these days. What does the Council of State responsible for culture do specifically to ensure that all young people in the country have access and opportunity to experience cultural experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e1989	I am pleased to hear that there is also a lot of good work going on in the counties to facilitate more in order for more young people to have the opportunity to experience good art and culture. The cultural map of youth was simply removed because it was very different practice from state to state. And then it turned out that there were fewer and fewer states that were interested in applying to the state for funds from the scheme, and that caused it to be dropped. Another example is The Cultural Nest Package. It was terminated because we agreed with the Riks Concerts that it was better to prioritise children and young people than Concert at work for adults. I share the representative's wish that we reach particularly vulnerable groups and that it must be an important priority for us cultural politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2000	I thank you for your answer. I also want to remind the Council of State of one of the few things in the field of culture that are on the Sundvolden platform. It says the following: ‘The government will ensure children and young people’s opportunities for good cultural experiences, and will, among other things, focus on areas such as the corps, choirs and youth’ – now meeting young culture. The 2017 bet is EUR 189 000 and has no mention. What is the reason for this, and when did the Government leave the government's investment in Young Culture meet?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2012	Achieving youth and having good access to art and culture experiences throughout the country, regardless of the family background, regardless of the economy, is important for the government. That is why I am pleased that the representative also mentions the Corps, because we have now turned 2018 into the Year of the Music Corps. I have a great deal of faith in how we can reach out and recruit more children and young people who can get the pleasure of participating in the Corps. So I would like to remind you that Norway is one of the countries in the world with the highest proportion of state funding for cultural life. I'm very happy about that. The government is concerned that we should have a high proportion of state funding for our art and culture precisely so that all parts of the people will have the opportunity to avail themselves of those offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2022	‘One of the few new initiatives taken by the government in the field of culture is the gift-enhancing scheme, which provides cultural institutions with state support when they receive private gifts. While most of the posts in the government's proposals are cut in real terms, this system is strengthened. At the same time, the aim of cultural money is to translate it into ‘cultural activity beneficial to the whole population’. How does this correspond to the goal of allowing rich sponsors to determine who will enjoy public cultural crowns?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2029	The gift-enhancing mechanism was established by the government in 2014 to stimulate increased private funding of cultural life. In 2016, the scheme has been extended from museums to all arts and cultural areas. The scheme involves 1 million. SEK in gift triggers NOK 250000 in government grants, and the government proposes to strengthen the scheme by a further SEK 6,15 million. SEK to a total of 51,1 million. kr in the 2017 government budget. The purpose of this, and with this scheme, is to motivate and reward cultural enterprises to work more systematically against private donors in order to obtain more sources of funding and communicate their activities better with the environment and the public. Grants from the scheme do not benefit private donors. It is the efforts of cultural activities themselves and their own projects that determine who will enjoy public cultural crowns. In addition, the grant from the gift-enhancing scheme depends on the fact that an agreement and payments from a private donor have only been made. So far, 98 different art and cultural institutions have received grants from the gift-enhancing scheme. Without exception, these funds have been channelled into good cultural policy measures that are unproblematic in terms of public funding. In addition, the scheme requires little bureaucracy to manage and also acts as a power-provoking measure by the fact that it is the individual institution that decides what the grant is to be used for. The State does not impose any requirements other than the assumption that the funds are used for the purposes of the institution concerned, as formulated in the statutes. It is certainly possible to construct thought-provoking examples of ‘rich sponsors’ leading the use of cultural resources. But it has little to do with reality. In reality, the Governing Board and the management of the respective cultural institutions decide which actions should be prioritised within the available resources framework. If the Storting joins the proposal to grant 50 million. kr for gift-enhancing in 2017, this will mean that qualified managers and directors of a large number of cultural institutions will be able to determine the use not only of that sum but in addition of more than 200 million. kr that comes as a gift from private donors – together it is 250 million. I'll talk about it. This is about giving the cultural sector good economic anchoring parties also outside the State budget. The gift enhancement scheme has proved to be an instrument that works. The cultural sector is allocated additional resources and the receiving institutions are also given arms to implement priority actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2042	I did not get an answer to my question, so I cannot conclude in any other way than that there is a very large distance between what the government says, and what the government is doing through the gift enhancement scheme. It is not true that this arrangement leads to the spread of power. On the contrary, it leads to strong centralisation, because this system benefits District Norway very little. An example of this is that the culture in Finnmark has received NOK 25 000 through this scheme, while Oslo has received nearly SEK 12.7 million. kr. So that's why I repeat my question: How does the Council of State think it's going? Is this distribution in line with the objective that cultural activity should benefit the entire population?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2047	Now I stand here with the overview of those who have been given, and fortunately there are many good cultural actions and actors in both Northern, Troms and Finnmark who have received funds through the gift-enhancing scheme, and who have also triggered state-private funds, which enable them to prioritise measures they could not do otherwise. It's a good spread all over the country. I also refer to a business survey on sponsorship from 2013, which shows that the number of companies sponsoring is highest on the outskirts. It is Finnmark, the county from which the representative comes, and it is Sogn and Fjordane, Møre and Romsdal and Nordland that come highest – and best out – in this survey. But I think we can get even better at triggering gifts and resources from others to strengthen the cultural sector even more and make it even more robust, not just unilaterally dependent on the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2052	If the cultural actors in Northern Norway are the best in the country to sponsor cultural activity – it is certainly right – it is all the more agreeable that Finnmark has only received 25 000 SEK of this scheme, while the cultural promise has been cancelled, which has led to no major cultural projects being carried out in Finnmark with this government. In the cultural field, we generally see a strong centralization of the funds, and that is very stupid. In the Sundvolden platform, it says: ‘It is important and enriching for Norway to take care of Sami languages, culture and traditions.’ Nevertheless, with today's government, there has been a real decline of 70 million. kr for Sami purposes, and it affects cultural purposes in particular. Nor has there been any new bets with this government. That is why I ask: how many Sami cultural projects have been funded by the gift-enhancing scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2064	Now it's up to the donors themselves to decide who they want to give to, and it's especially after an extensive work by the institutions themselves. Then the representative Pedersen and I do not have a very similar starting point in political detail management and influence. I think it's amazing that cultural life itself is involved and getting funds, and I don't think it's a good thing that politicians are the ones who should sit and decide who is the best fit to receive state support in any case. When we look at very many other countries, and especially countries with which we can compare, there is a very high proportion of private funding for cultural life. There are hardly any other countries in the world that have such a high level of government funding for cultural life. So there's going to be a greater diversity in the cultural sector. That's what I think is good, and then I hope that also Sami projects will benefit very well from the gift-enhancing scheme and strengthen their budgets in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2072	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Culture: «Oslo deprioritised the construction of sports facilities for many years. Therefore, many children in the capital lack good activity. The new City Council has taken this on board, and facilities are now to be built throughout the city. But on a national basis, billions are missing from approved facilities. The government will not use a single dollar above the state budget to recover the debt. Why not?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2081	I thank you for the question. The government has implemented changes to the key so that from 2015 there are a total of 64 pst. of the annual profit from Norsk Tipping went for sports purposes. In comparison, in 2012 it was only 45.5 pst. of the surplus set aside for that purpose, so that the transfer for sporting purposes has increased significantly during that period of government. This change is particularly justified by the need to strengthen the grant for the construction and rehabilitation of sports facilities in municipalities, because we know that some of the most important for increased sport activity in the population is just having access to facilities. It has now followed up the government with the detailed distribution for the various sporting purposes. It was committed in 2016 for a total of 1.2 billion. kr to sports facilities in the municipalities. That's $0.5 billion. kr more than in 2012, or an increase of 72 pst. This has resulted in a decrease in the ratio of available resources to the overall need, i.e. that hundreds of plant owners will experience a faster grant than before. It facilitates the need for intermediate financing by plant owners and helps them to prioritise the use of resources for the activities of the facilities they have built up. The government will continue to prioritise sports facilities in the distribution of Norwegian Typing's profits. The government believes that the large increase in the use of games for sports facilities makes a significant effort visible. Funds for this purpose have increased significantly both through grants and through the compensation of VAT, which also shows a clear prioritisation of sports facilities, even in challenging economic times, where other societal purposes experience reduced transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2092	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. The tipping agents are important – I think we can agree on that. Now it's a problem for Oslo that the tipping device is a challenge, which I'd like to ask the Council of State to be so kind to look at. The Oslo City Council has speeded up the development of sports facilities of over 4 billion. kr. It's going to happen over the next four years. But with the needs and all the challenges that we know the big city has, it's really not that much fun or fun -- if it's possible to use that expression -- to spend the worst time in the country on drugs. It has something to do with the roof of the total per installation. Will the Council of State bring it along or will it comment exactly that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2099	I'd like to do that. That's why we put down the sports committee as the government did, for example. to look at the plant situation, because we see that someone is coming out of control. I very much want to take that recording with me to see how we can make sure that the capital gets out better. I had a recording meeting a few months ago where we invited municipalities, county councils, teams and sports associations to make representations to us about how we can have a better construction policy, because today it's a little random who it is that reaches through. It is often those who have strong figures and resources, who can stand on and get through their construction projects in the sports councils, who win through, while perhaps other types of sportsmen or those who are unable to mobilize equally are unable to reach sports councils, and are thus not prioritised by the counties. I think that strengthening our skills locally so that we get a better strategy on fixed assets is absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2106	I think it is important that the Council of State will look at this and appreciate it. Money from the tippers is important – we must agree on this – so that all municipalities can build sports facilities so that young people get activity opportunities in their neighbourhoods. Can the Council of State say a little about what thoughts she has about the experience of Denmark, where the profits from Danish games have fallen dramatically after liberalisation in 2012? Licensing was then distributed to foreign gaming companies. Norwegian sport has asked the government not to do the same here, so I want to ask for an assessment or a response from the Council of State on this very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2113	First of all, I would like to say that there is a total accumulation that has joined the model where grants for sports purposes are given from the surplus to Norsk Tipping. I am dealing with what a total accumulation has joined, and I believe that it is important that we prioritise funds for the construction of the profits that Norsk Typing has. I would like to say to the representative Nybakk that the government is going to present a big message about gambling before Christmas. I can just show you what I said earlier, that I think we have an exclusive model that works pretty well. So the representative Nybakk knows very well that a Council of State cannot say anything more about the content of a message until it has passed through the King of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2120	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-30.ana.ud343e2134	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
