ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e47	The representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder countries: Benjamin Groenvold For Akershus County: Are Health For the Nordic counties: Veronica Pedersen For the South-Trundellag County: Tormod Overland The request for a welfare permit for the representative of Per Olaf Lundtägen has been submitted from the Central Party Group of Great Britain as from 12 April and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Gerd Eli Berge, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e88	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e91	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Hans Fredrik Grövan, Anders Tyvand, Astrid Aarhus Byrknes and I am promoting a proposal for the establishment of a CompetenceFUNN scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e96	The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e99	I am delighted on behalf of the representatives of Olaug V. Bollestad, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Anders Tyvand and myself to promote a draft representative on family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e104	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e107	On behalf of the representative Line Henriette Hemdal and the undersigned, I promote a proposal for a representative to review legislation and state financial ownership in the light of the need for transparency and combating the use of tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e112	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e126	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e133	In proposal 22 S for 2015-2016, the representative Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes proposed an amendment to the Stortinge Rules of Procedure in order to introduce an arrangement in which the company interests of the representatives are disclosed in the opinions of the committees, where relevant to the matter and irrespective of the financial value of the interests. The Presidency will stress that high standards are required for the integrity of each representative. Representatives shall promote the interests of the public and not exploit their responsibilities for personal gain. In order to contribute to the transparency of the duties and financial interests of the representatives, the Stortinget has, since 1991, held a publicly available register in which the representatives have been able to register their duties and financial interests. The transparency provided by the registry is important in order to provide the public with knowledge of any conflicts of interest between the entity as a wholesaler and private financial interests. As the draft representative points out, the media regularly put the financial interests of its representatives in the best interests. As representatives, we need to make sure that our economic affairs can have the public interest. Despite the fact that it is very embarrassing and regrettable for me personally, I am pleased that we have an awake press that has indicated through publicly available knowledge that unfortunately I had not registered three shareholdings of NOK 101000, NOK 118 000 and NOK 143 000 respectively, despite the fact that this exceeds the limit of NOK 90 000 that imposes registration. The lack of overview on my part that underlies this is no excuse, and I cannot help but regret the incident. Registration is now, of course, done. I hope that this very unfortunate experience will strengthen the care that all of us and the other big business representatives have to show in such matters. With regard to the concrete proposal on the disclosure of financial interests in the committee settings, the Presidency does not wish to support this. The Presidency believes it is today's economic register that should be the source of information. The Committee's opinions and proposals for decisions are primarily technical and political presentations of the issues at stake. Information on any private company interest does not belong here in the view of the Presidency. More representatives are known to have an influence on a case during the proceedings in Stortinget than the members of the preparatory committee. It's the Storting together that makes decisions. The Presidency considers that the weighting of the members of the Committee by the proposed representative could give rise to a misconception as to who has actually had an influence on the matter and who is responsible for the decisions taken at last. The Presidency would also point out that it would be difficult to determine the positions in which information on company interests should be included and the relevant company interests in each case. The Presidency believes that the economic register published on the Storting website is easily accessible to the public as well as to the representatives. The special care we should expect from the representatives also implies that they themselves inform the Committee, its party group and others of the interests of the companies they consider relevant. The Presidency welcomes constructive proposals for legislative changes. Although the Presidency does not support the proposal to include information on company interests in committee positions, in this context we have found reason to consider whether the threshold for registration of company interests in the financial register should be removed, in other words that any share, whatever its value, will be subject to registration. The Presidency has concluded that the applicable criteria for registration are in line with the purpose of the register. The level of registration is similar to that of our neighbouring countries, and is accepted by the Council of Europe body GRECO. The majority of the Presidency therefore considers that the current provision should remain unchanged on this point. However, Member of the Presidency Line Henriette Hemdal believes that corporate interests, regardless of their value, should be entered in the financial register. With this, I would recommend the presidency's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e161	The centre party is not represented in the presidency, but has clear views on a matter like this. I want to start by fixing the obvious, and that's that it's not forbidden for big business representatives to own shares. It is not prohibited for large-scale representatives to hold company interests. What we are discussing today is the degree of transparency about the corporate interests and portfolios of corporations that big business representatives have. Today we have a rule that says that all interests over a certain size should be reported in Stortinget's register. The question we are facing today is really two-fold. The SV proposed to change today's system to an amount limit down to zero. The SV also proposes to attach to each statement the interests of each representative in relation to a specific case. Then there are also proposals on the table to remove the 1 G limit and make all the interests and interests of companies subject to registration. The central party shares the presidency's view that it would be quite artificial for a party to attach information on its own company interests to each position relating to either commercial company, state-owned company or other. It can create a demarcation problem in relation to the size and nature of the interests you might have, but also a demarcation problem with regard to the issues involved. On the other hand, the Central Party agrees with SV that the limit set at 1 G seems to be unnecessary, and that the simplest and best thing in terms of a principle of transparency will be whether all the duties and financial interests of a depositor’s representative are also recorded in the register. It'll be a simple rule, it'll be a good thing to deal with, it'll be the openness we're striving for towards the outside world, but it'll also be a good arrangement for the individual wholesaler. The centre party is therefore promoting proposals on this today. The centre party also considers that there is another transparency issue that deserves some attention. We now have a register of state councils. We have a register for deposit representatives. But there is a group that is also very much affected by the contact with state-owned companies, industrial interests, public tenders and other things that are very important, and where transparency has also been important, and that is the top administrative director of each department, namely the Council of Ministers. The Ministry Councils, by virtue of their position, have very great influence. It is important that no questions can be asked about the independence of the ministerial councils, and making demands for transparency about company interests also for ministerial councils will help to increase confidence in central government in general. We therefore believe that it is also important to be able to put in place a system for ministerial councils in line with what is currently the case for state councils, and also in the case of large-scale representatives. We have therefore also proposed that the government be invited to consider whether similar rules applicable to government councils should also apply to ministerial councils. Often, in such debates as this, there is in a way an underlying tone of suspicion that someone might have something to hide. That is not the question in this case. What is the question in this matter is that transparency creates trust. Openness is neat, and transparency should be straightforward. Therefore, it should not be difficult for the Storting to decide that all the interests of the company in which each of us representatives are located are also openly registered in the financial register of the Stortinget. With that, I take up the proposals No. 3 and 4 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e178	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e181	When you make such a code, you can either do it in situations where it doesn't blow, and do it on the basis of principles, or you can wait until you get a problem, and then try to solve it with a code. I'm first of all, I'm making some basic envelopes, and I'm not doing it when there's a problem. I really don't see today's headlines as proper fighting, president -- or sitting president. By being ahead of the challenges, we have been able to have an openness in Stortinget where we're constantly reaching for more transparency, and thus we've also managed to build a democracy that's pretty much trusted. When the Panama report arrived, it said that this is where many politicians were to be exposed. I was wondering if this was also an issue for Norwegian politicians, or if it was just foreign politicians. So far, it's only for foreign politicians, and I think it's good. I think it's good for the trust in Norwegian democracy that we can have so much openness that we don't get such scandals as we've seen in our neighboring country. But that's why I don't think about the argument that only we are equal to our neighbouring countries in rules, this is going well, or just following the minimum standard in the Council of Europe, this is going well. I think we should extend beyond that. I think we're going to try to figure out what we mean is the ideal template. Today's legislation with a limit of NOK 100000 is what we have seen today. As a result, everyone has to sit and watch the stake, so it doesn't suddenly become more valuable, because then you get a big problem. If you don't take care of it every day, you can reach this limit. That is why we see in the Left that proposal No. 4, promoted by the Center Party, is a good proposal. I think that's going to clear up all the issues, because then you know that if you own a stake, you have to specify it. You don't have to sit and guess it to see if it's $90,000 or not, but you have to specify it – finished, dot, final. I think that's a very straightforward and simple regulation to deal with. It cannot be interpreted, and it cannot suddenly be that the shares become more valuable and you have to be careful about whether the portfolio you have is at the limit. I believe that having simple and straightforward rules and having full transparency is important. I believe that the proposal from the Swedish Government is far too far-reaching. It obscures more than it actually leads to transparency, because there are many who participate in a treatment in the Storting, not just those who sit in the committees. And then you have to assess the relevance of ownership in the case you are dealing with. It allows for so many assessments that there is actually a basis for creating less trust in the process than more trust in the process. Move limit to zero! Have full openness! Understand that if you have ownership, you should tell about it! The whole world also needs to know that you, as a trustee of the people, have these interests. I also think that proposal No. Three, from the Center Party, is good to get on the table. It is good to have an assessment of it – it is not the Stortinge that adopts these regulations. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 3, with the argument that the Center Party put forward here. Here we're going to make simple, okay, transparent, transparent rules. And then we're not going to deal with a minimum standard given by neighboring countries, which we see what leads to, but we're going to stretch towards what we think is the ideal regulation. Therefore, the Left will support the proposals No. 3 and 4, promoted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e204	People are entitled to know about the financial interests of depositors, so that everyone can control whether one who owns breeds in breeding, uses the role of lobbying for breeding, whether one who owns axles in Telenor, tries to increase the income possibilities of the company, or whether one who is on the board of an organisation is trying to increase the support of the organisation. The people should know that. When the Stortinge adopted the mandatory system in 2008, the setting stated: ‘The Presidency considers that the national Parliament’s authority and integrity are best served to remove any grounds for suspecting that the representatives act on hidden grounds.’ [[...]] That's the nucleus. It is only through explicit openness that we can remove suspicions about hidden motives, and it is through openness that we can prevent corruption, crime and that representatives exploit the position for their own gain. Sorry, today's system is not working. Last year, Dagbladet revealed that many depositors have not registered their corporate interests in the register, that someone also had lobby meetings on investments with companies in which they own axles, and that representatives had proposed contributions to both the ownership message and the farm message that they had acquired in the company where they own solid shareholdings. This should be a wake-up call for the Storting. We should go through the system, look at the routines and remove all the possibilities that cast suspicion over the work of the Stortinget. I expected the staging president to be the leader in this work, but that does not happen. Why? Instead, when someone actually suggests action, the presidency sees it as the role of problemating the proposal and not doing anything. This is not how the presidency takes the problem seriously. Let me remind the President that these rules are enshrined in the Constitution, as the rest of the Storting's Rules of Procedure are. Why does the Storting take lightly violations of these rules, but not of other rules of procedure? If I had played a draft from a committee reading to actors outside the Storting, I would be punished by the President. It had been taken up as a very serious matter. Why does this not happen when the reporting obligation is not complied with? I am sure that if I had banned from the pulpit – mass, here and now – it would have been taken more seriously than if I had not registered my own company interests. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Respect for the rules is also not strengthened when the staging president does not follow his own rules. Our proposals are simple, and they are unbureaucratic. We're flexible in SV. We would like to discuss the arrangements so that the proposals can be improved. For us, the most important thing is that we create more openness. First of all, we think the 1 G limit is unfounded. We want to remove it, so that all interests are reported. It is consistent with the proposal of the Central Party. We're open to support it, if there's multiples for it in this room. Secondly, we think that the openness is only available to skilled, digging journalists, such as Eiliv Flydal in Dagbladet, is a problem. They represent the people. In that case, a gravejournalistic competence is not required to access this information. We therefore propose that it be explicitly stated in the case-law that representatives have personal interests in the matter. The Dagblade disclosure just showed the need for that. Finally, we must not be naive. Panama-saka, which rages over our society now, shows how big the secret problem is, and how a political and economic elite across the world has managed to hide huge values for democratic institutions. Panama is a small tax haven, Mossack Fonseca a small law firm. We can imagine the extent of this. The size manages enormous values. As long as there is a suspicion that there may be hidden purposes that do not come to light, we have a challenge. We need to be a good example of openness and flexibility. Just let me say it: I have full confidence in the prime minister. That's why I think it's a shame that we have a system that's not being followed, and a system where there are unnecessary limits. I want a system that is much more explicit, so that we can remove every suspicion. I hope we can at least get some of these proposals adopted in this round, and then we can come forward with other proposals that can strengthen openness. I would like to include the suggestions from SV on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e235	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e238	It's not just in DNB that things go under the radar. It happens here in the house as well. It's probably a year and a half since we got a report from GRECO, which had gone through the Storting's work on transparency and against corruption, that is, our register. They made some recommendations. The Presidency set up a working group of representatives from most of the parties, and we went through GRECO's comments and evaluated them. Among the proposals was what the representative of Knag Countyesnes now raised, the question of checking that the information provided is correct, and criminal reactions if it turns out that it has not been done. It has been evaluated by the working group, but we have not found any basis for proposing it. There are some questions that arise, because we have a very special role, and it's really just the voters who can ultimately "punish us." This is the basis for the preparation of proposals for amendments. This 1G limit, or 1 pst. the value of the company was not among the references made by GRECO. The Presidency has consulted the groups on the conclusions that we have reached, and I am aware that no reactions have been received from the groups. How thoroughly this has been dealt with in each group, I do not know, but it has at least been possible to bring these proposals into the systematic work that has been done. It hasn't happened. We haven't finished this presidency work, so there's still opportunities to reconsider. Since this has obviously gone under the radar, it's not exactly what the representative Trine Skei Grande said, that it's when it doesn't blow, you have to do it, because that's what you've had opportunities to do in the year that's behind us: to be able to do this when there's no whirlwind like the one we're now experiencing. But that doesn't mean that it's not possible to review it. And if I'm going to interpret the atmosphere in the hall among the few that are present, it might now be a slightly different attitude to it than it has been before. I would therefore recommend that the Workers' Party Group support the proposals of the Centre Party. There is an opening for more consideration there — not necessarily by the limit, but there may be some limitations to what is contained in the concept of shares. There are some shares you buy to help the sports team build a new sport course, which is not of an economic nature. That's one banal example. You have to consider: are you going to specify the number of shares, or are you just going to say that you have shares in companies A, B and C? There are things that should be included in an assessment, and there are opportunities for the presidency to do, in proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox So my recommendation to the Workers' Party Group is to support the proposal of the Centre Party. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e255	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e258	I think we have a good code today, but it was the representative of Knag Fylkesnes – in and on behalf of the representative of Hansen – who made me want to take the floor. We're all concerned with openness and trust, and we also know that with demands to know about financial interests, there's a lot of attention around. But the first defence agency is each individual's assessment of its own place in the debate. That's the first, and I think there's quite a lot of attention around it, and as the prime minister said, it's not nice to tread over the code we have today. The other defense agency is the media, which is focusing on us all the time, and which is going to follow this up quite carefully. Norwegian society is characterised by trust and openness, and it is an important foundation for society. But for one who really believes that the challenge of the Storting is that there are too few financial interests sitting on the Storting, and that it can be a challenge now when we are going into a transition period, I think the very suspicion of those who have some financial interests is quite worrying, as stated in the SV's proposal. When you bring it down to the level that SV does, we can start talking about what financial interests are. This is also a little bit for the Working Party, because they're on the loose. What about job access and having the right to return to the job you have had, especially in the public sector? Are there also interests to be declared? There may be a lot more driving forces in an interest debate than sitting with some shares in some company. Membership and interests in organisations can also create quite strong membership. Should it be reported as well? Then you have to enter into a very fundamental debate, and I think we're not served with it. I think we're supposed to have big-time representatives who are engaged in Norwegian society, and who don't feel intimidated because they're part of what's the foundation of society, and that's actually business. So I'm too open and trusted, but I'm also because you don't bring it down to a kind of ridiculous level, like SV here does, and suspects any commitment to something that I think the Storting should really be more influenced by, that you're in business and you see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e274	When the representative of Knag Fylkesnes argues with transparency, I can only recall that the transparency needed to control the representatives, it is established through public registers and the search possibilities that are there. I guess that's what's probably behind the headlines in the newspaper. I have to say that in that media review there is not a hint that you have been involved in a decision that you should not be included in. What is being criticized for is not being up-to-date with the formal registration. It illustrates to me that you're not looking for clarity. After all, these formal rules are being used to throw suspicions at political competitors. That's why I would very much like to warn you about the further development of the rules, so that you also get away from the restriction on recording just what was over 1 G, because then you'll have to catch up on the pure trifles and make sure a completely different update. I would also say, as a curiosum since this limit has now been promoted: the reason why the limit is 1 G, is that when you type it in as a rule, the rule will be adjusted to the evolution of the economy, so that the Storting doesn't have to deal with the amount limits all the time. So that's a pretty elegant way. If you want to have a house rule here first, that's the way to do it. I must also say that when you hear SV lecture on transparency, I must remind the assembly that SV in the government was behind one of the biggest fortifications in Norwegian administration. And the government is a governing body, unlike the Stortinget. What I'm thinking about was that they actually made the decision to scrape Mongstad in March of the election year 2013, and then they kept it secret until they made the formal decision after the election. Of course, it was a major political and technological defeat, because you had spent five billion dollars. kr of the taxpayers' and the community's funds not to be able to clean a single gas molecule. It is clear that one can imagine that the so-called environmental party SV would have problems if it had been known in advance. I also see that there is a former member of this government here in the Chamber today, who can go up and dement if it is such that today's Business News about this is incorrect. In that case, it would be the first time, and I would have looked forward to that – a little openness about something that had been very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e287	The installation for Tetzschner and Gundersen was a cat out of the bag experience for me. What are they actually saying? They say that openness creates suspicions that it is through openness that a suspicion is sown. And to say that, if one follows that reasoning a little bit further, sees how dangerous it is. Because that means that one should keep things hidden in order to prevent suspicion. The form of thinking is very forward-looking in the Norwegian political system. One must, in fact, to countries we do not like to compare ourselves with in order to find the form of thinking: that openness creates suspicions, that our proposal is based on a suspicion of economic interests. Because it's the other way around, it's quite the opposite: suspecting is created by secrecy. Luckily, as far as I can understand, it's a plurality in Stortinget that thinks this is an open, rational fact. My impression of the stuttering president is also that he supports that way of thinking. Let me just jump over a small point in the end. So it's a mandatory system that we're dealing with here. It is as mandatory as the rest of the Rules of Procedure. Where are Gundersen and Tetzschner and their anger when people don't register their information? Their anger is moving well in other parts of the Rules of Procedure, the parts of the Rules of Procedure they think are more important, but this is not important. And let me just say it: I've started businesses, I'm happy in ownership, I'm happy that people are investing in their everyday lives, whether it's at company level or it's in organizational life, but when we're here, in this hall, it's decisive that one is open about it. It is the only small requirement that is made: full openness to remove every speck of doubt that there are no hidden motives behind political treatment. It's that simple. And that's what we're dealing with today. We'll see when the reconciliation comes, who's understood that point, and who hasn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e296	I think that there is no basis for making this matter any more difficult than it is. The representative, Gundersen, thought that we had defence agencies in today's legislation and in the media. Are we really going to adjourn and say that the media is our defense? Can't the Storting just be open sea? Can the Storting only decide that all financial interests and duties are subject to registration and make it simple? As I underlined in my post, there is no suspicion whatsoever in this. It is, as I also said in my post, allowed to own shares, it is permissible to have financial interests. But it is wise to be open about that matter, and it is wise to make that system so simple that it is okay for everyone to follow it. That's why I think it's going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a problem, and also a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a problem here. The fact that many of the representatives are members of teams and associations cannot be an argument against being open to stating their financial interests. But it's clear that if Gundersen thinks it's necessary to make a distinction between having a position and having a membership somewhere, maybe it's an interesting issue, but that issue has not been addressed to me, and I think there's a natural distinction between being a member and having an active position in an enterprise or a company. To the representative Tetzschner: we can discuss history back and forth, and we can pick up what previous governments have done, not just the red-green, but the Bondevik II government and the Gro Harlem Brundtland government. It's said to be a diversion, because this isn't about the past, it's about which template the Storting should put on in the future. And the central party's attitude is that it's wise to put on as much transparency as possible and a simple system to manage and understand and deal with for each representative. On the other hand, the Centre Party believes that the original SV proposal goes too far and becomes impractical and inappropriate. Then I will also mention, at the end of the day: I understand that there has been a work related to GRECO in the presidency, and that the Labour Party representative here mentions that the other party groups may not have given much attention. We can do a little bit of sea critique on that. But I think maybe this case also shows that there is room for some potential for improvement in the dialogue between the parties who are in the presidency and those who are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e307	The matter is about our role and our sense of role. It's perfectly legitimate and good to own. Business is good. The only question is whether we, as elected representatives, should be completely open about what personal interests we might have, which might affect what we think, and that is not the case either. The only thing that's not legitimate is that there's no transparency about it. I'm trying to follow up on what's happening around us in the world, and there's a political crisis in many places between management and people. Part of that crisis is that you don't have a culture of transparency, but that you have a culture of closedness, where things are pushed forward a little after a while, and where people lose the threat of politics. So this proposal that SV has is about caring for our role as elected representatives in the future, so that Norway does not end up in such a situation. The things that come up, as such, may be small, but they do very harm. It's a fact that this is doing a lot of damage. And what in the world would be the problem of stating that you have a share item, as I have in a share fund, of NOK 15 000? What would be the problem of stating that? Nothing. And having a limit that says you have to tell everything, doesn't expose yourself to what Little Bear Nilsen writes about in his song: it's easy to forget, if you're a little bit of a distance. – Then there will be bad things, which can hit hard. But the worst thing might not be to discover that you own NOK 300000. This is about having a single rule that is easy to practice, and where everyone knows what interests a representative can have. It doesn't create intrusion. But if you have strong interests, it might be wise to lie a little low in some issues involving one's interests, but then there will be transparency about this, and the problem will not exist. So I very much agree with what Mr. Knag County said, that you turn the case around and think that it's the openness that's the problem, and then it's just that you're open, that creates problems. It's not that asking for openness is suspecting those who might have a ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e320	It's almost for the sake of order and for the record: Marit Arnstad referred to what I said about something going under the radar, and that you might have been more alert, but that it also illustrates that the contact between the parties that are not in the presidency, and the presidency, could be better. I'm sure it can, but here we invited all the groups to appoint a representative to join a working group working on this. All the parties agreed, except the Center Party. So it's not like the presidency has been sitting and making these assessments alone, we've done it together with representatives of all the parties, even though both the attendance and the engagement might have been bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e325	Torgeir Knag County has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e328	It is only for the vote: we in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities endorse our proposal on 1 G in favour of the proposal for a central party, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox And then we also support the second proposal on the Central Party, proposal No. 3, which is about we need the same kind of openness around the departmental councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e333	It will be necessary to take the word again because the concentrated representation of my first post – from the representative Knag Fylkesnes – was so misleading that it cannot remain standing. What I didn't say was that when we establish openness, there is established suspicion. What I tried to express in my first post was: the openness is established through the general search capabilities, which are many, and so it should be. What I said could create suspicion, is if we have such rigid registration requirements that it falls below any reasonable de minimis limit, and it could go beyond the timeliness. And when considering the fact that the Stortinget does not take a single decision – we are not a governing body – I must remind you that the part of the comment from the representative of Fylkesnes, which is that the committees should register interests at the pre-treatment stage, is also a rather strange perception of what the committees are doing. The Committees are preparing cases for the Storting, for plenary deliberations, and are therefore not making any individual decisions. So, once again, my point is that excessive formalism means creating suspicion because you might have violated a regulation, while I think we're going to go after what's real in it. And that's why I allowed myself to bring in the fact that SV has its share in one of the biggest fortifications against Norwegian voters by holding back a real decision in the government, which became known only after the election. I have also noticed that – after I said this earlier in the debate – we have even had, here in the hall, a former member of the government, who resigned in September 2013, and who has not taken up that thread. So we're assuming that today's business version of this is until it gets demented. This has to do with reality, and I think that maybe the Storting should spend more time on – and not set each other up for not having reported all the trifles. Of course, as I said before, it will require more in the daily period of an update of the registers. I just want to end by saying, when I hear SV lecture in openness here, I get the same feeling as hearing a pyromaniac teach in fire safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e351	It is for the same reason as the previous speaker that I am speaking – for the record. I'm very strong for openness, and I thought that too, but it's the exaggerated formalism and – as Karin Andersen said – our role and our sense of role that's the point. I believe it is clearly connected that each individual has an obligation to assess this in each case. And I don't mean to weaken it. I believe that the legislation, as it is today, is a reasonable consideration of the possibility of following up and also of being able to follow up on it all the time. There's full openness on the Storting about this, and it should be. But I asked when we came down to such a level as SV would – what are financial interests? I think that is quite legitimate, that then we will also have to discuss a number of other interests. I observe that you don't want to answer that, and we don't have to pursue that anymore. But just so it's said, there should be full openness around all interests. It's just a question of where the level goes to run control. And I have great confidence that each of my co-representatives assesses this quite well, even when we come below the level that is actually required by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e362	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e376	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative, Tina Bru, who is the rapporteur on the matter. The representative, as far as the President can see, is not in the Chamber. We are moving on to the next one on the list of speakers, which is Eva Kristin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e385	First, I would like to make it clear that I am not stepping in for the rapporteur. But I can say as much as this matter is about reaching the ambition of 1.5 degrees heating. Many who are concerned about climate change were very tense and alarmed in front of the climate summit in Paris last December. Despite the gloomy reports presented by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, it was not certain that the clear evidence base would be perceived. But it made a clear impression, because the agreement in Paris actually became quite offensive. The Paris agreement negotiated is the first legally binding climate agreement with real global participation from all countries. The agreement is more comprehensive and more ambitious than many saw. It states that countries will work to limit the temperature rise to 1.5 degrees and have a measure of net zero emissions in the second half of the century. In the Workers' Party, we have a tradition of following international conventions. We're behind the Paris Agreement, but it's a long way to go from having an ambitious international agreement to actually taking on the goals that need to be achieved, and not least following up and implementing them. Because now it's like this in the real world that words and numbers on paper don't mean anything to the world if they're not translated into action. It's urgent! Climate change is in progress and has major consequences. We know the content of the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which tells us that climate change is happening quickly. We can expect more storms, more floods and more rainfall. Food production is becoming more difficult, both at sea and on land. Biodiversity is at risk. As we have discussed countless times in this Chamber: it is the poorest countries that are hardest hit by climate change, climate change for which our part of the world has the primary responsibility. Last year the size decided to reduce Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. By 2030, and to do so jointly with the EU. A strong lead was that we would get an agreement in place during 2016. We support this, but not unconditionally, on the part of the Labour Party. We assumed that things were actually going to start happening this year, and that we were going to get a deal. Now we know that there will be no agreement this year. The Minister for Climate and Environment has himself said that negotiations will be held in 2017, and things may well indicate that even this will be difficult. The EU has a lot of things to do in the day, to say it like that. Then you have to ask yourself: what will the government do when things take time with the EU? Will it continue to wait for an agreement with the EU before we do things again, or will the government change strategy and actually do something on its own? Unfortunately, we know the answer to that. The government wants to wait for the EU. It is somewhat encouraging that the Council of State, Helgesen, in its letter to the Committee, writes that the government will: ‘in an appropriate manner — after the deployment is clear — the outcome of the negotiations with the EU and how to achieve the Norwegian climate objectives’ is presented by Stortinget. Then the years go by without any of the world's things happening. The Storting has a number of representative proposals for consideration that are about us having to have a more offensive climate policy here in the country. We can ask for goals, ambitions and plans as much as we want, but it has almost no purpose because the government has no intention of doing anything. It is not that we do not have enough objectives – it is not lacking in them – that is what we lack. The Labour Party does not intend to wait for the EU or for the government. That is why, on our own, we have promoted over 40 concrete proposals on how we can conduct a better climate policy. There are concrete measures in transport, industry, agriculture and forestry, and measures to achieve a circular economy. Those proposals will be dealt with a little later in the spring, and I'm excited about how it works. I believe that this is the way we, who are not satisfied with the extraction tactics of the government, have to go ahead under the motto ‘wait for the EU’. We have to produce the policy ourselves. Then, for the sake of order, I must recommend the position of the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e412	The agreement on new objectives to limit global warming adopted in Paris in December was a breakthrough in international climate negotiations. The result marks a watershed where 195 countries are now committed to contributing to the world’s adherence to the two-degree target and stretching to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. The Paris Agreement is the first agreement since the Kyoto Protocol in 1997. The ambitions of the agreement are great: the world’s country aims to become climate neutral during the second half of this century. In order to achieve this, all countries ratifying the agreement undertake to have ambitious targets for greenhouse gas emission cuts. Countries shall also periodically review and increase the level of ambition and report it to the United Nations. This global agreement is behind the proposal we are considering here today. Under changing governments, Norway has been a driving force in international climate negotiations. It is worth recalling that the Norwegian delegation in Paris worked for a more binding agreement than the one adopted. We have an agreement that sets clear goals and ambitions, but places responsibility on each country. Norway will take its share of that responsibility, there is no doubt about it. It may be to simplify a complicated world something to claim that if other countries pursued a policy of climate policy as offensive as Norway, we would be on the right track to meet the ambitions of the agreement. It is nevertheless true that the Storting has adopted climate objectives that are so ambitious that they will be far on the way in line with the level of ambition in the Paris Agreement. Having said that, I would like to point out that the majority in the vote also underlines that Norway's revised climate objectives must be in line with the ambitions of the agreement in the future. I interpret this proposal as an expression of impatience and high ambition. It can be good with both as long as it is balanced by both wisdom and a dose of realism. The proposal we have for treatment today, in my view, is premature, and for several reasons. The proposer asks the government to promote a case of what 1.5 degrees global warming means for Norway. That question is currently not possible to give a good answer to. Not even the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change knows what this level of ambition means. So surprisingly, we can say that the agreement was at this point. Therefore, the Paris text of the agreement also contains a point that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will prepare a new Special Report on Emissionways and the consequences of such a target during 2018. However, there is no doubt that such a measure will require much of the world’s country. The first indication of what it will require of Norway is given in the Minister of Climate and Environment's presentation to the Stortinge later today. It is said to be the boring thing about my party traps: climate policy is not a Norway championship, it requires global cooperation. When Norwegian climate policy is now so closely linked to international processes, and in particular to the EU, the measures to be adopted at home must be harmonised with the global framework. Norway is in dialogue with the EU on our common fulfilment of climate objectives, and we are a driver for strengthening and improving the tools we already have. Among other things, we have an offensive role to make the EU ETS more efficient. If the climate crisis is to be resolved, it will require cooperation between countries. Operational allowance markets will be essential to ensure that measures can be put in place where they are most effective. Norway does not sit still and wait for the EU or for the Paris Agreement to begin to work, which it does not do until 2020. Government and cooperation parties are pursuing offensive climate policies. Norway’s reported targets for Paris were among the most ambitious of all countries’ targets. Under this government, the focus on climate technology is very high through the Climate, Renewable Energy and Energy Conversion Fund. We are also engaged in a large-scale development of public transport and rail for more climate-friendly transport. We're strengthening the green shift on shipping. Europe's largest wind farm is now being built on Fosen. Among the world's most powerful industries, we export renewable energy and environmental technologies in solid form through our metal industry. Our greatest advantage is world-leading environmental research and our renewable resources, which provide us with a good basis for being ambitious and helping us to achieve our climate goals, both nationally and globally. I welcome the presentation by the government on the follow-up to the climate agreement and look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e429	I think I'll start my post by referring to Report. St. 13 for 2014-2015, New 2030 Emissions Commitment – a joint solution with the EU, and its treatment. It has been clear for a long time that when the EU has done its job, the government will return to the United Kingdom and the distribution of burdens and efforts between countries is ready. Once the EU has found its solution, it will provide a predictable and committed framework to further develop and take new steps for Norwegian climate policy. There is reason to recall Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement and that close to 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to the EU. I think it is important for Norwegian industry, Norwegian industry and not least Norwegian jobs to coordinate Norway’s and the EU’s climate policy as much as possible, so that we know what the other party is going to do, to adapt Norwegian business to what is coming. It is important that Norway does not introduce a climate policy that contributes to the loss of Norwegian industrial activities and jobs, which may also lead to carbon leakage with subsequent global emissions. Having said that, I am disappointed and also surprised that the Workers' Party is involved in the minority comment that says that we should not wait for the EU's clarification. There are new, clear tones from the Workers' Party, which differ from the treatment of Report. St. 13 for 2014–2015, which we dealt with a few years ago here in the main hall. That being said, it was not that this government came to the table of climate policy. The fasitite after eight years of red-green government was a gap up to the climate targets of 8 million tons. Fortunately, this government, with good help from our supporting parties, is about to close this gap. It is also the case that this government is focusing on the development of new climate technologies and the development of public transport and rail. And for the first time, the transport modes commissioned by the government have developed a climate strategy as part of the basis of the national transport plan. There is also reason to mention some of the measures contained in the 2016 budget, as 5 billion. kr to the climate and energy fund – with the new deposit being funded in nearly 68 billion. NOK, which is close to 18 billion. kr more than the ambition of the climate agreement. The government has also increased the green shift in shipping by 40 million. kr to invest in new technologies and environmentally friendly solutions through Innovation Norway. Similarly, there has been a major effort in the transport sector in Enova, which has launched a number of support programmes for energy and climate action in the transport sector, both on land and in water, for example. charge current to ships and quick-charging stations for electric cars. In addition, 20 million have arrived. kr to the pilot scheme for biogas plants, to be used in support of installations testing new technologies to generate biogas based on raw materials other than waste, such as: manure. Urban environment agreements have also started to be concluded, with significant funds being put into the pot. These were some examples, and there are far more on what this government has done, including in terms of spending money to develop renewable energy in developing countries in 2016 – nearly 500 million. kr. So the government delivers in a number of areas, even if the EU does not do its job, and so will the government in the future – with good help and with good traction from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e446	We are going to have an important report from the Minister for Climate and Environment on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement later today. We have this spring at our table a number of representative proposals that deal with the same – some are more holistic than others – i.e. different parts of climate policy. The present proposal by the representative Hansson asks that the government follow up on the ambition for a maximum of 1.5 degree global warming and that a case be raised. I share the impatience of the representative Hansson, but I still think it is positive that we finally have a willingness to act from one of the nearest aggregates. It is expected by the people around us, and it is expected from those who do not let their voice be heard so often, but who are still among those who are hardest hit by climate change: the world's poorest – depending on crops that fail due to droughts or changes in rainy seasons – that we use energy to stand together on action. We have to put away the political game and focus on action. Governments and cooperation parties pursue offensive climate policies, and Norway’s declared objectives for the negotiations in Paris were among the most offensive and ambitious. But no one can rest on temporary laurel berries – we can acknowledge that we have started an important job together, but be honest that we have no more than that started, and we started too late. The level of ambition has to increase, and it is also added to that in the Paris Agreement. It is this dynamics in the contract text that give rise to the most hopeful. Deep-seated changes that we partly agree on, but sometimes have not seen the scope of, have to be made. We must be impatient, but we must nevertheless take time to follow the progress we have made with the European Union. That is why we are voting today for this proposal to be annexed to the Minutes, and I am looking forward to the statement we will receive later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e461	Today's attitude is one of several issues where we're going to start discussing what a follow-up to the Paris climate agreement will mean, but where we really don't get into a proper discussion. That is why the Central Party is also looking forward to the presentation by the Council of State later today. For the time being, this type of debate, as well as the run-up to it without hope, is that we are in a way unable to enter into the important areas that we need to discuss and the objectives that we also need to discuss. As indicated in the suspension, the centre party believes that it should have been possible for the non-quota sectors to set some targets before returning with a finished negotiated result within the EU. Our concern in this regard is that if we set our objectives, we can also revise them and adjust them if the final agreements to the EU so provide. But the problem of waiting until 2018 or 2019 I think is very big. It creates unforeseeable business, management and the political environment. The questions you have to ask are: How does the government view the dialogue with the EU? What contact does the government have with the individual countries which are now discussing their own objectives and which are discussing not only the two-degree target but also the 1.5-degree target? How does one view the possibilities of tightening up the number of allowances within the EU system? What has a concrete dialogue with the EU about this? The possibility of going further and starting discussions at least for the non-quota sectors is needed precisely to create more predictability for business, management and policy. Many of these sectors are waiting for – some of them perhaps also in a bit of a shock-mixed excitement – in which direction this will go. In the transport sector, in several cases, the Grand Duchy comes to the fore and decides on individual cases relating to the transport sector, inter alia. in the case of ferries and emissions, and also in the case of short-haul transport. In agriculture, which is actively working on the climate problem, and which is concerned about being a photosynthetic manager – and that is quite right – one wonders whether fees should be the only response to climate challenges, which would have been very devastating. In the transport sector, the government is constantly pointing out that it rates more than anyone in the past. The truth is that the government is following up the national transport plan adopted in 2013. The truth is that railway investment is now below the level of the 2014 budget. And the truth is that the question of electrification is one of the most unclear signals given by this government. Does a plan to use funds and effort on any of the things that can be a really good climate action within the railway, namely electrifying the sections in Norway that are still not electrified? In the field of renewable energy, we hope that in the energy message that is coming, we will get some more answer in addition to the individual issues that we have discussed regarding the electrification of platforms or green data centres, that we will get some more overall response and a little more overall strategy for how the government intends both to increase the production of renewable energy and also to increase the use of renewable energy resources in Norway. I agree with the representative Andersen Eide that one has to put away the political game, but the amount of Document 8 proposals in this area also points to a frustration in the United Kingdom over the lack of opportunities to discuss climate policy in its entirety. It's time you also got something handy to discuss. The government cannot allow Stortinget to wait until 2019 to discuss the follow-up to the Paris climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e482	New news is coming to stress the seriousness of the global warming we are facing. Now there is extensive bleaching of coral reefs worldwide. A few days ago, it was news that the ice prevalence in the Arctic — this year again — is less than ever recorded. Then it's positive that we got a climate agreement in Paris that's more ambitious than most people expected, and that it's a commitment that embraces almost every country in the world. And there are two things: one should have a goal that one should significantly less than 2 degrees and extend to 1.5 degrees, and one should have a regular update of the agreement. So it's important to stress that what we've delivered into the Paris Agreement is not a 40 pst target. reduction, there is a commitment to 40 pst. reduction, and the situation is that we need to start action now. We also have the climate agreement, which says we're going down to 47 million tonnes by 2020. It is an objective which, at least for the Left in the cooperation we have with the government also towards the budget, lies at the root. We're doing a lot more than what's done before, but it's clear that it should just be missing. This is particularly the case in the transport sector, whether it is a zero-emission effort, it is a simplification of biofuels, it is a requirement for public vehicles, or it is a charging infrastructure, a hydrogen set-up and a more environmentally friendly public tender. This must be reinforced year by year. We already know to a large extent what it takes to reach the commitment of 40 pst. reduction by 2030. In that case, almost all private cars sold in 2025 must be zero-emission cars, and heavy transport must be fossil-free by 2030. Then we have to launch the policy to reach it already now. In terms of the goal of reaching 1.5 degrees, it takes a lot more of the world than having a measure of 2 degrees. This means that we must have global negative emissions 10-20 years earlier than in a 2-degree scenario, which means that with a target down to 1.5 degrees, we must have a much stronger international commitment to carbon capture and storage. It's important that we have a good systematics in the job that we're going to do in the future. We have the climate agreement, which Norway is going to achieve. Now we are getting a new update of our position, from the Environment Directorate in June, as a basis for what must also be done with the budget for next year. Then we have the commitment of the Paris Agreement that we are going to reach together with the European Union. And we're also going to present a new commitment with an enhanced commitment towards 2020. On the left, we agree that there is a difference between the commitment we have with the European Union and that we can have our own objectives in addition. There are several countries in the EU that have their own objectives that go beyond the common obligation, and Norway too should realise that we have a separate objective that includes both the quota and the non-quota sector. But we have more than enough goals – there is no reason, with the decisions we have, to wait to act. We have heavy objectives with the climate deal. Now we have to have a systematic work ahead. I look forward to the statement that the Council of State will make later today. We need to put in place an agreement and a review and work on what is the commitment to the EU. Then we need to have a systematic work on how to strengthen this, so that we can put in place a policy that gives the predictability and pressure required to achieve the targets by 2030 and beyond by 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e501	The message from Paris and the climate summit there were ready: it's urgent to start the climate cuts. They must not be pushed on to later, and every country in the world must come back with more ambitious goals and action than what has been presented to now. In contrast to this, the statements of the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party are almost like the statements of the Comic Ali, because you can't push the emission cuts until later, and it's not like the Norwegian objectives that exist are ambitious, if you see them in relation to what we've set ourselves to achieve. Let me go through this point by point. From the Paris climate summit, there were a number of concrete objectives. One is that we need to update our objectives, and the answer from the government to now has been: we are pushing to update our goals towards 2020 because that is when the EU is going to do just that. We have been told from Paris to make sure to cut as much as possible by 2020 because that is what makes it easier to stop dangerous climate change and to increase ambitions by 2030. The government's answer is that we're not going to, and we're not going to, achieve the 2020 targets. And no significant proposals have been made by the government to cut climate change emissions in Norway. At the Paris Summit, it was said that renewable energy was increasing in developing countries. After Vidar Helgesen took over as the State Council, Norway has cut two thirds of renewable energy support in developing countries. Delete the surplus allowances from the first Kyoto period, it says in the climate agreement. The government's answer is, we don't want to delete the excess allowances from the first part of the Kyoto agreement. The government has abolished the national climate targets and has said that we will implement them exclusively in cooperation with the EU by 2030. All these things, plus the fact that the government continues with an oil policy where one refuses to take on the fact that we have to reduce the world's oil extraction if we are to manage to stop the dangerous climate change, mean that the sum sum totals the government's climate policy is over. So Öyvind Korsberg says that the government has been saying for three years now, that you did not come to the table. Of course, the government did not come to the table. The government came in the middle of the climate dungeon, and it's just Right-people and FrPs who think you can sit at the table in the middle of a hard day and wait to be served instead of folding up the sleeves and working on. It is absolutely necessary that we make sure that we get more new grips on climate policy in Norway. That is why we have tabled a number of proposals on the SV side. I agree with what Marit Arnstad said, that the reason why there are many climate proposals coming from the opposition parties is precisely the lack of climate initiatives by the government. The five points that we believe must have broad support, and on which we expect the government to deliver, are: we need a plan to phase out all fossil energy use in Norway – we need to take power in Norway, we need to implement energy efficiency improvements in Norway and get rid of fossil energy use. We have to make sure to scrap the plans for new runways at our airports, at the Gardermoen and Flesland, and instead ensure the development of lightning trains. We need to pursue a charging policy that ensures that nine out of ten new cars in 2020 must be zero-emission cars and that all new cars are zero-emission cars in 2025. We have to make sure to support the industry that wants to go to the top in terms of using zero-emission technologies – support TiZir in Tyssedal, who wants to use hydrogen as a reducing agent instead of using coal, as today. We have to stop granting new oil licences at a time when we know the world needs less oil, no more. It is simply that we need to speed up the pace of our climate change reductions in Norway, and so we have not seen anything special about this government. It's just zero emissions that's good enough. That is why I am also addressing the proposals on which we and the Greens agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e520	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e523	So in February, the world was 1.35 degrees warmer than the average between 1951 and 1980. It's called a shocking and climate-policy emergency. However, the month before, in January, the State Council informed Helgesen that he could not promise emissions cut in Norway during this majority period. Thus, the State Council of Helgesen reports to the infinite array of Norwegian climate and environmental councils that do not guarantee emission reductions and will not promise them over a specific period of time. Everyone in this room knows that the previous government was just as paralysed in these questions as the sitting government. So the proposals that we are promoting here today are an attempt to do something about that action slump based on the fact that the government has signed an agreement that is enormously ambitious to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and you have to expect it to be followed up with action. But I am frankly unsure whether the Norwegian government has understood what they signed on in Paris. Because if it is realistic to have a real ambition to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees, we know – we do not need any investigations, we know – that the level of ambition in climate policy must be doubled compared to what is necessary to achieve the two-degree objective, which we are already far from contributing to, especially in Norway. That means first and foremost one thing – and that is the opposite of the government council Helgesen delivers us – namely that climate-emission cut cannot be postponed. We don't need long-term rhetoric that this is going to happen another time. What Norway has to do is what the City Council in Oslo and the City Council in Trondheim do: set concrete emission targets for how many tonnes we're going to release in 5, in 10, in 15 years. In Oslo, the target is 50 pst. emissions cut in 2020 and 95 pst. In 2030, that's the case with Oslo. I hope the government has noticed these kinds of goals and will cooperate with Oslo, Trondheim and other cities to achieve them. The proposals that the Greens and Greens are promoting here are, in my view, simple and obvious. We ask the government to promote a matter of how they intend to implement what they have signed in Paris, and it is quite remarkable to hear the representative of Aarbergsbotten say that it is not possible. What is the point of signing an agreement? What's the point of waiting to try to figure out what a deal like that involves? We ask the government to come back with an updated Norwegian climate target that is in line with the 1.5 degree target that the government itself has signed. What's so alarming about that? Why in the world can't you do that? We ask the government to take the initiative in increasing the rate of downsizing of the quota cap in the EU ETS so that it corresponds to an emission path in line with the 1.5 degree target. What's so alarming about that? It's absolutely obvious and indispensable to do just that, so why wait? Countries such as Germany, Portugal, Austria and Luxembourg have already joined a ministerial meeting in March 2016 to strengthen the 2030 objectives as a result of the Paris Agreement. Norway has sent a letter to the EU Commissioner for Climate Change recommending that the EU's quota system is in line with the overall climate objectives, and that is great. But does the Council support the initiative of these countries to strengthen the 2030 targets? It's hard to know. What we're facing right now is just another revolution in what is the absolutely incredible situation of Norwegian climate policy: an infinite series of promises and agreements about everything we're going to cut in the future, and an absolutely fabulous lack of willingness to explain the Greatness and the people how to do it now. The essence of the Paris climate agreement is one thing, which is much more urgent than ever before, and therefore I now look very forward to what the Council of State has to say in this matter and in the next case about how this is actually going to happen. And then I regret that the majority of people have not been able to support our proposals, but I note that many point in the same direction as us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e542	The new climate agreement that we got in Paris before Christmas is a turning point in international climate work. Later today, as has been mentioned, I will explain how the government plans to follow up the agreement. The overall objective of the Paris Agreement is strengthened compared to the 2010 Cancun Agreement, when the world agreed on the two-degree objective. The purpose of the Paris Agreement is for global temperature rises to be kept well below 2 degrees and for all countries to work to ensure that the temperature does not exceed 1,5 degrees. This is a very ambitious goal. It goes much further than previous agreements, and therefore climate researchers have limited knowledge of what this objective will mean in practice. The fifth main report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change provides us with little basis to assess what measures are needed to limit global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. That is why the Paris Agreement invites the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to present a new special report during 2018. More knowledge of both the consequences and the emissions pathways related to a temperature increase down to 1.5 degrees is requested from world countries. What is clear, anyway, is that it will take a lot of all countries if the world is to reach the two-degree goal and move towards 1.5 degrees. Of course, the new climate agreement will also have an impact on Norway. Provided that the Storting ratifys the agreement, Norway, in line with all other countries, will have to contribute to the overall objective of the agreement to limit global warming to well below 2 degrees and work to limit it to 1.5 degrees. Norway will also be obliged to communicate nationally set climate contributions every five years from 2020, according to the criteria outlined in the agreement. The government is in dialogue with the EU on the joint fulfilment of the 2030 climate objectives. Through the joint fulfilment agreement with the EU, we will have an ambitious target for cut in the sectors not covered by the quota system through the allocation of effort, which will apply for the period 2021-2030. We believe that joint fulfilment with the EU facilitates a more effective climate policy than if Norway were to act alone. Both Norway and the EU assume that the implementation of climate policies must be seen as part of a long-term transition to the low-carbon society. Together with the EU, we can provide more predictable framework conditions for Norwegian companies and provide a basis for developing more climate-friendly technologies and other solutions in common. There was a broad majority of cases that stood behind the EU solution when it was being treated last year. The size has been aware of the time span of the EU process through the treatment of Notice. Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and In the setting of that message, the government is asked to come back to Stortinget with a case after the effort allocation is clear, which describes how the government will work to achieve these goals. Neither we nor the EU countries can say with certainty what will be the 2030 target for cuts in non-quota sectors, and to what extent countries will be able to cooperate in Europe to meet these targets. In line with previous decision-making, the government will – after the deployment is clear – present the outcome of the negotiations with the EU and how to achieve the Norwegian climate objectives. As the representative Hansson points out, reducing greenhouse gas emissions is urgent. Therefore, both in view of the 2020 targets and in order to convert Norway into a low-carbon society, the government and the cooperation parties are strengthening climate policy nationally. To mention something, we're strengthening the climate agreement. We have a historically strong commitment to rail, the reward scheme for public transport and pedestrian and cycle routes. We have a historic commitment to green shipping. We have increased the focus on the development of a new climate and environmental technology through Enova and Innovation Norway's eco-technology system. We have put forward an offensive proposal for the law on public acquisitions, which will use the potential of the 462 billion. kr in public procurement involves annual. We'll come back to Stortinget soon with a case on the follow-up to the decision on Renewable AS. We have a big message about the circular economy at work. We have a sample set up to propose a green competitiveness strategy. We are working on a new growth report on industry’s framework conditions, which will also help to equip Norwegian industry to cope with the major changes that are taking place. We're about to put forward a new energy message. We are working on a new bioeconomy strategy. Global migration to the low-carbon society is already under way. The government's objective is to be in the front line for green innovation, green investment, green technology and green competitiveness. The climate challenge must be met with an active use of instruments. We need to use the tools we have, to trigger the innovation needed for a better and more offensive climate policy, and I look forward to cooperating with all parties at Stortinget in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e566	I heard from the end of the article to the Council of State that he was trying to frame up all that the government has done. I just have to say, I'm not that powerfully impressed. But I would like to stress the expectations a little bit to the following statement, because I suppose he is holding back a little bit in this debate because he is going to present a lot in the next case, in his statement, and that he there is going to present a number of new measures and steps that the government intends to take in the follow-up to the Paris Agreement. As he says himself, it's urgent to get things done. So what I'm really asking is whether the Council of State can give us an ever-small teaser, a small warm-up to what we can expect in the presentation. At least he could, for example. give us the five most important steps the government will take now to follow up the Paris agreement? And if he can't make it with five, can he at least give us three concrete things he's going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e571	I assume that the representative Hansen is aware of the principles of communication between big business and government, and when you use presentations, it's not where a government comes up with a new policy. It happens in budgets, it happens in other initiatives. But when the representative asked for five measures, we actually have five areas of action that were in the big picture from last year, where we are strengthening the climate action. New areas of activity need not be added. We have areas of action, these are the areas of action in which we are stepping up our efforts, and so it's very important to ensure predictability of signals. That's why I'm surprised that the Workers' Party now seems to hesitate a little, or deviate a little – I'm not going to use the wing word – about how to deal with our important process with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e576	Not that I'm using to be insulted, but now I've been sitting on the Stortinget for ten years, so I know how the processes are going between big business and government, and I record that the Council of State believes that it's only through the budgets that you promote policies in climate areas. Then I have to say that I am worried. I believe that it can be expected, both through presentations and through flashbacks, that policies for an ambitious climate policy are actually promoted. As I see it, this government has not come with a single new grip for a good climate policy. Little has come from this government, so I want to ask the council again: can we come up with some expectations for the energy message? What new grip can we expect there?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e581	I will neither prejudge the energy message in time nor go into the responsibility of my colleague, the oil and energy minister. But let me just mention one example, which we have on a very important climate action, which we have launched this year. We have presented a new proposal for the Law on Public Acquisitions. There we say public agencies, who buy 462 billion. kr per year shall set up its purchasing practices in order to promote climate-friendly solutions. And we're not just doing that, we're reintroducing something that the red-green government took out, we're reintroducing the right to complain to the complaint body for public acquisitions -- we're reintroducing the opportunity to try this out legally, as the red-green ones took out. It is very important, it is demanded from industry, and it is demanded from all those who are concerned with stimulating the climate and environmental technologies that are crucial in the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e586	The Council of State mentioned many measures that are now being implemented and common to, if not all, but almost all, are well established through budgetary conciliation rather than on the presentation of the budget. And it's the Left who's been behind as well as everybody, I think. But the main point of the Paris Agreement is that action must be taken now. And, as mentioned earlier, we must have action and also strengthen the climate policy we have, by 2020. We have, as the Council of State said, reinforced the climate agreement in terms of providing more measures, but the most important thing about the climate agreement is that we are going down by 47 million. tonnes in 2020. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: if the Council of State agrees that the goal and what we're going to get is that we're going down to $47 million. tonnes and not just extending the range of measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e593	Let me first stress that I am concerned about saying – and I said – that it is the government and the cooperation parties that stand together on the main features of climate policy. And when I talk about ‘we’, it’s of course the big ‘we’ that I’m talking about. We're concerned that we need a more ambitious effort to try to achieve the 2020 targets, but it's also that we took over a gap that we've been surveyed through our order to the Environment Directorate, which makes it very demanding. But there's no reason to sit still. That's why we're making great efforts, that's why we've ordered a national transport plan climate strategy, that's why we've done a lot of green shipping to speed up low-carbon technologies and a number of other measures. We are not waiting, we are not waiting for the EU or other things to implement and strengthen the climate agreement in good cooperation with the cooperation parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e598	The government has to resist being measured by the results of its policy, not how many plans and strategies they are able to produce. As of today’s date, it is irrevocable that the government is not prepared to achieve the 2020 targets by 2030. I would also like to correct what the Council of State says about a gap – yes, of course there is still a gap when you get in the middle of the climate. The government of which I was part had reduced the gap by about 6 million tonnes from 2007 until the right-hand government took over. And then there were 8 million tons left. But that gap can be done to close, but so far we haven't seen any of it from the government. But I want to ask you a question about zero emissions. It is good for the government to say that environmental requirements are required, but will the government require all public procurement of transport services to be zero emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e605	At present, we are not in a position to call for all public procurement of transport services to be zero emissions, but low emissions are an important means of zero emissions. We are totally dependent on technology development enabling good and practical solutions, and we see a tearing technology development that I have great faith in. It is precisely for this reason that there is a commitment and strengthening of climate technology research – whether through Enova or through Innovation Norway or through general research efforts that the government has strongly strengthened and that meet with strong research efforts from private enterprises – is crucial to achieve, so that we can achieve the objectives of low emissions, and after each zero emission, from the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e611	At least it was partly an uplifting answer to my question. As the law on public procurement exists today, I think it is good that all agencies should impose environmental requirements. But a little bit of the problem here is that you can get away with rather soft environmental requirements. If we look at what the Post and ASKO are able to deliver, they say very clearly that by 2020 they will be able to have zero-emission vehicles, zero-emission technologies or zero-emission fuels. The question is: if private operators are able to deliver in terms of zero-emission fuel and zero-emission technology, why should the country come back as a slowdown instead of going ahead as a good example? When we implement the law on public acquisitions and the changes that exist there, should not the public then make clear the requirement that if zero emissions are possible, there will be zero emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e618	I believe that one of the reasons public spending sometimes depends on is that the public procurement requirements have been too weak, and among other things. the red-green government has removed access for competitors to appeal to the KOFA and pursue it legally. I think it's important that we're very clear. It is quite clear from the discussion about public acquisitions that it is not least from business and from the private sector that the requirements for government to make use of this possibility come. That's why we're now saying to public agencies that they have to make use of it. And we don't care about a legislative formula, we see that this requires a higher level of competence. There are many public purchasers, whether at state, county or municipal level, who do not know enough about how to do this. There we can actually learn from the private sector. This government is very convinced that interaction with the private sector and learning from the private sector are a good thing in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e625	The only thing that plays a role in climate change is how many CO2 equivalents we release into the atmosphere. Therefore, it is important to know what is the concrete outcome of the policy underpinned by the Council of State in the form of Norwegian CO2 emissions. The Council of State frameworks a number of measures, which governments before him have taken, but he does not tell us what is the concrete impact of these measures on emissions. He also does not outline the measures that are counterproductive – ferry-free E39, major E18 expansion, highly increasing air traffic, etc. – and the emission consequences thereof. The question is, when will we know what to get out of the transport sector, how much to get out of the oil sector, how much to get out of agriculture and cities, in 2020, 2025 and 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e640	The objectives of both the EU ETS, of which we are part, and the non-quota sector, of which we are to be part, are about to be cleared, but that discussion is not over. But let me answer at a slightly more fundamental level, since the representative Hansson did not want to frame individual measures. What must be our contribution to climate policy? Yes, it's most important how much CO2 emissions we end up with, but what's the most effective policy to do that, is very important. It's neither growth criticism nor plan-economic additions that are going to get us there. It is to bet on an offensive economic policy, a conversion-friendly economic policy, focus on technology development, have faith that we are able to combine growth with green conversion, and then we also have the economic power to manage to reach the low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e650	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e655	If what we now heard from the Council of State was to be played out for the climate statement afterwards, we don't have much to look forward to. What we're experiencing in the climate debate now is that words like 'ambits' are being woven into a word game about who did the most, and how great things really are. It helps the climate very little. The starting point is that the Paris Agreement undoubtedly reinforces the objective that we should not exceed the two-degree objective. In two and a half years this government has put forward one thing that specifically concerns climate. It's Meld. St. 13 for 2014-2015 – two and a half years, one case – which is a commitment to the EU and inclusion in the EU system and the climate framework on how to behave. So the probability that we'll be able to figure out what Norway is going to do, mainly maybe in 2018–2019 – I don't know if the Council can explain it afterwards. The assumption when we dealt with Report. Paragraph 13 was that the agreement with the EU could be concluded during the year, or at the latest in 2017, but thus, one case in two and a half years. It does not exactly testify to an active and forward-looking government with clarity on how to achieve its objectives. There is no problem if Norway introduces measures that reduce greenhouse gas emissions independently of the process with the EU – on the contrary, it will only strengthen our ability to meet the commitments we already have. And when the representative of Korsberg, and, to the extent, the Council of State, believes that the Workers' Party, on the basis of this attitude – we believe that it is possible to take action now – starts to wing in relation to what we said in connection with the treatment of Report. St. 13 for 2014–2015, I have to respectfully report that neither the Council of State nor the representative of Korsberg could have read the statement from Stortinget on this matter. Because it was clear that the Workers' Party was very clear, along with many in this Chamber, that action was urgent, and action was proposed, but they were voted down by the government parties and the majority. So it's like that, and it just gets stronger every day that goes, that everyone, except the government parties, is starting to get very impatient after getting some concrete measures that will make us clear some conditions on the way up to 2030. The economy is asking for it. There's no doubt that if the government doesn't now know its visitation time, I think the majority of the Storings do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e670	The fourth year was a difficult year for the world. We had refugee crises, brutal warriors, stateless conditions, economic problems. Then it was very happy that the year ended with what was really last year's great joy: that all countries met in Paris and were able to agree on an international climate agreement that upgraded the environmental ambitions. I thought it was so great and so happy news that I have nominated the architects behind the Paris Agreement at the Nobel Peace Prize, because it would be the most important contribution to getting to a better world. However, the contract is not worth anything if it is not followed up. Today's climate minister has probably had a big play after he joined a few months ago, and it was that he could not guarantee that the emissions will go down with him as Minister. He met in the Questionnaire later, where he said it was important to be honest. I agree that it is important to be honest, but it is very little ambitious of him who is set to be responsible for following up the Paris Agreement. If other ministers do like him, it's the recipe that we don't achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the goals of the world. We have to act now. We are going to negotiate with the EU, but there is no reason to stop using climate policy here at home in Norway. The representative Øyvind Korsberg said this was new tones from the Workers' Party. The Minister for Climate Change, who is usually very decent in his language, considered this to be ‘winging’ from the Workers’ Party. No, if he had followed what the Workers' Party said in the debate, what we wrote in our comments, we said we have to act now. Objectives for 2030 are important, but it is even more important what we do in 2016, 2017 and 2018. I would also like to ask the Minister why we have to wait for the EU, because regardless of what kind of goals we get, we know where they are going to be. And when it's 39 pst., 40 pst., 41 pst. Or 43 pst., we don't know that, but we know that we have to do big cuts, and we have to start doing them now. It is strange to hear that the minister does not think about what kind of cut he thinks Norway should do. It seems that we are waiting for someone in Brussels to respond to what kind of goals Norway should have. Finally, it is illustrative for this government's environmental policy when the minister has to come up with his list and everything is budget-owners from the Left and Christian People's Party. He says we should strengthen the climate agreement. It would have been very good, but I would like to ask the Minister if he is going to reach the climate agreement. We cannot have a minister who walks around standing on the pulpit of the Storting and boasts that this government is going to reinforce a climate settlement that the Prime Minister has said is very unclear if we are going to reach. I have more speaking time left in the debate, so I would urge the Minister to give the guarantee that his policy will lead to this climate agreement being reached. Unless he can say so, at least he has to stop walking around and say that this government is strengthening it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e689	Let me first say that I find it sad that my post was compared with Iraq's Comedian Ali by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. I think we should be able to have a debate in this Chamber without falling down on the low level once in a while, and not at all in time. Then there has been a discussion about the flight of the Workers' Party from the previous point of view. It's never nice to see any escape, but sometimes it happens, but then you should at least be able to stand in for what you're doing. I have read the climate settings, Report. St. 13 for 2014-2015, and I have also taken the print, which I have in front of me, of what Terje Aasland said during the processing of that message. Let me just quote Terje Aasland, who says the following: ‘Let me start by thanking the rapporteur for the proper implementation of the procedure before the Committee, through the committee procedure. It may not have been the most complicated matter to deal with either, because it was quite a good connection to the solution. The fact that the Storting joins part of the EU's climate policy framework, assuming that we have an agreement with the EU, is in many ways a good solution.' So that's what the Workers' Party meant a year ago. You're now going away from it. It doesn't look very good, especially when you don't want to insist that you choose a new line in politics. The same can also be read in the Report settings. St. 13, where the majority, which is part of the Workers' Party, believes that ‘The proposed agreement of the government with the EU will provide a predictable and binding framework for the further development of Norwegian climate policy’. So you were in there that time, but now you're about to get away from those points of view. Furthermore, it is still up to the majority of the Committee, with the Labour Party, to ask: ‘The government will come to Stortinget with a case after the deployment is clear, which describes how the government will work to achieve these objectives’. This has been abandoned politically. Then it's worrying when you don't want to accept it. Then they say that the government has only delivered one case to Stortinget. It's as wrong as it's possible to get it. In every case, the government delivers decisions that affect climate policy, and we have good cooperation with the cooperation parties in this area, including with regard to the budget. So I'm actually interpreting it so that the Workers' Party can neither read nor calculate in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e718	This debate has told me that in this matter perhaps the most important thing to be able to have many thoughts in your head at the same time. I have requested this from many of the representatives who are calling for action. Perhaps the biggest challenge we have today is what action needs to be taken, because we have had too poor a knowledge base as to which actions provide the best results. In climate and environmental terms, the cost-benefit of what we put in is absolutely one thing that we have to take with us. I very much agree that we should electrify as much as possible of the railway, but at the same time it is at least as important to upgrade the railway network, so that predictability can be achieved so that the railway tracks are used, which we are struggling with today because, among other things, the freight transport. gives too little predictability. If we are to succeed in these measures, it is also very important to have good cooperation with industry, for example. That's why I'm very happy that they have big, ambitious goals, especially in the oil and gas industries, and there's a great deal of effort in internal research and development to find the best solutions. And what has not been done by the government in these areas – for example, the great measures that Enova has now taken to grant both Elkem on the island of Here Island and Hydro’s installations on Karmøy – precisely to keep us leading the world in the field of environmentally friendly, powerful industries. In this way, we export both clean electricity and not least solid technology when exporting silicon and aluminium. There were people who thought we were just sitting down and waiting to be served. In a good way, I think we have to work together, and this government couldn't sit down to the table, we had to go to the kitchen and keep touching the pots. It was actually absolutely necessary to get us forward. The fasitite after eight years of red-green government was that there was a gap up to the climate targets of 8 million tons. Our main tool is our knowledge, and that's exactly why we've had a big investment in research. When we are world leaders, for example. in CO2 research, we see that we are contributing in relation to national emissions, but in this policy we must think globally, and our contribution to the global objectives I have experienced has been very little in this debate today from a good part of the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e737	There is no doubt that the agreement that was concluded in Paris has and will become of great importance to us here on the mountain. There are going to be strict demands for us on how we are going to proceed and how we are going to make the transition we are already in, in order to be able to achieve the green, profitable jobs that make us achieve the goals that we have, together with the European Union. I'm listening to the debate, and you make it sound like you're doing nothing. I am not going to go through a long list of decisions taken to reduce climate change emissions, both here in Norway and not least abroad. We focus on research and development, also as an idea that we can export knowledge that enables those countries that do not have the same technology competence that we have to benefit from what we are doing. In addition, I think it is quite important, as the minister said, that we are now upgrading the law on public acquisitions. The public is acting for billions, and it is important that we focus on it when we are going to achieve our goals. It's -- as I've said sometimes before -- a little paradox that we have the world's cleanest industry, but when we're going to buy steel and other things to build roads, it's not so sure that we're dealing with our companies, but maybe somewhere else, where producing steel gives more emissions than in Norway. The Green Party was concerned that we are not doing anything, and that we should look at Oslo and Trondheim, given that they have set themselves climate goals. Yeah, we're actually doing that, and we've actually made decisions that make the two municipalities achieve these goals. That's the point. We must all contribute to the reduction of emissions. Urban environment agreements enable these municipalities to achieve their objectives, in cooperation with Stortinget. We grant money, it's the municipalities that have to do the job, and we enable them to do the job through the money we give them, by establishing urban environmental agreements. In addition, we have allocated money to the municipalities, so that they will get more in terms of climate action. So it's working on all fronts to get to these goals. In addition, we have reduced a Green Competitiveness sample. There will be an energy message, and there will be an industry message – and it is all these measures that together will move us from where we are today, to achieve the objectives that we all agree on, and that we will achieve them together with the European Union. The worst thing we can do is take measures that initially hurt at home, which cause you to get carbon leakage and initially experience emissions falling in Norway, while the total emissions in the world do not drop. That would be a bad policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e749	From the parties of government and to the extent from the Council of State, we see a clear pride in everything they have done. What is sin is that all they've done is not that we reach the results we're going to achieve. That's the one problem. Nor does it appear that this government intends to present concrete measures to the Storting during this large-scale period. To the representative of Korsberg: There is reason to be amazed – really – about both the way it is argued and the way in which you also try to create a rhetoric. The working party stands at every comma that we wrote and stated in connection with the processing of the Report. St. 13 for 2014–2015 – every comma! But I'm in doubt if the Progress Party actually stands for it, when I hear how they rhetorically try to maneuver in the climate debate. Firstly, we have not started a flight away from the EU in any way, but it is a reality that independently of the EU, Stortinget must take decisions that bring down Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It could be a good thing that the Progress Party also made that recognition in the climate debate. I understand, in the context of what Mr Korsberg says, that it may be difficult for the government to present something concrete in the climate debate and in the case of climate action when the government is actually a clear minority in climate issues. Back to the position, from which Mr Korsberg was allowed to refer: In the promotion of the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, proposals that: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget with a national emission reduction plan towards 2030 as soon as possible after ‘Paris 2015’ and before the summer of 2016.’ Korsberg has now convinced me that he does not read the entire settings, he only reads parts of the settings, which he wants to use rhetorically. It would be an advantage for the debate about a reader's entire position and relate to it. The working party has – like many in this room – from we discussed Report. St. 13 for 2014-2015 and until today have been impatient to participate in shaping more concrete measures that actually reduce emissions. This impatience does not represent either the Progress Party or the Right – insofar as neither the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e765	The representative Aarbergsbotten and several others have repeatedly referred to Norway’s contribution to global goals and Norway’s leading position in global climate policy. Well – what is the reality of Norway’s role in international climate change? Well, it's that over the past 50 years, this country has emitted 14 billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent in the atmosphere and is a major contributor to the climate change we're now seeing. We are also a country that is increasing our greenhouse gas emissions in a part of the world where all other countries are cutting them dramatically. We are a country that has just decided to open the Sverdrup field, which will add 900 million tonnes of CO2 to the atmosphere and even more comes with 23rd concession rounds. This is Norway's international climate role. It is nice that the representative Henriksen points out that the government believes they give good support to Oslo and other major cities for the implementation of climate plans. There may be some disagreement about just how good the support is, but the intention is good, and there is an example that there are opportunities to do concrete things. What I want to ask then is: when representatives from the government mention that there is an energy message coming, there is an industrial message, and here the measures will come, the problem is exactly what I've been in the round of questions with the Council of State: what is the concrete thing about the number of tons and times, are these measures and these messages going to tell us? What has not been mentioned by the Council of State or any other preliminary, is the most important action we can take to transform Norwegian climate policy from being a swarm of unmanaged promises, and a swarm of measures that we do not know the intended effect of before we see it for a long time, to something that obliges and puts things in the system – namely a climate law. So the climate law works with the government, but they don't mention it when they're talking about their main climate action. In Sweden, they have now come very far in clarifying a climate law that one country after another understands the importance of. This increase is of great importance to legislation and systematisation in various other contexts, so now I really hope that the Council of State in the next case will properly explain how, and when, we can put in place a climate law that places Norwegian climate policy in an obligating system that makes us finish this unworthy round of airy climate claims and goals that this magnificence is probably the world champion in not holding.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e780	Since I have been attacked twice in posts by representatives of the government parties, I thought I would answer them. First of all, I just want to join in what Terje Aasland says, because he says very clearly that what was perceived by the parties here – namely, that one has signed up and made an agreement with the EU – does not mean that one can postpone the whole discussion on how to achieve our own climate goals after the EU has reached its positions. I would like to encourage Øyvind Korsberg to read and look for it, but there is nowhere in the setting that was made when the majority of the population set the new climate targets, that when, for example, it did. on the objectives of the national transport plan, no climate objectives shall be set until after the EU has set plans for us. If it is preserved, it is true that when the government is going to present the Norwegian National Transport Plan — The Storting is being treated during this period, at some point in the autumn or in the spring, before the elections — it must contain some climate objectives. We cannot plan an infrastructure and transport policy here if at the same time we do not have objectives to manage to reduce climate change emissions. Once again, I urge: Read and read through this setting and see if there is any point in setting national targets for climate policy and transport policy before the EU's objectives come. I don't think the representative will find this. The Right Party and the Advance Party are voting against such climate goals – they have done so in Stortinget. I hope they change their mind, but they have done this in Stortinget. I would encourage them to do the opposite, but they don't have coverage from the bulk of the population to say that we're postponing all targets after the European Union has decided. It is fascinating that those who are the most attached to Norway’s efforts to influence the EU are those who believe that we should wait for the EU to take decisions in Norway – as is the case in climate policy. I want to point out two things. I will continue to think that one should avoid being heard as comedian Ali. Anyone who continues to say that we should strengthen the climate agreement in Stortinget, but not at the same time meet the goals set by Stortinget, namely to cut emissions to 47 million. tons, sounds to me like Comedian Ali. So I'd like to point out one last thing to Torhild Aabergsbotten, when she says we don't have enough knowledge to know what measures we're going to cut. Then the representative speaks for himself. The size has been presented by the Environment Directorate a lot of knowledge about what is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e793	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e796	The representative of Aasland refers to a proposal in the Report. Art. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day This was a minority proposal that was voted down, and I assume that the Storting should not rule on proposals that have been voted down. I read the whole setting, and there the Working Party says at least a little bit different things. One is that, when the EU is clear, it should join the EU in a way, and action should be taken beyond that – and the government does. It is not the targets that are crucial here, but it is the actual measures that the government has come along with, and the government comes up with it on a case-by-case basis. Every case presented in Stortinget has a blue climate council in itself. I think the other parties have to take that over. But what the Workers' Party wants is to put Norwegian jobs at risk and at risk. I think I'll warn you quite strongly against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e801	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e813	The Paris Agreement will not only lead to changes. It's an expression of big changes. Major changes in energy: In the year 2015 of the Paris Agreement, 20 pst had passed. of world power generation renewable but nearly 90 pst. from renewable sources of new generation in the world. Major changes in transport: this is particularly due to the fact that developments in battery storage are raging. Battery power is rising quickly, and its cost is falling rapidly. Only last year it sank with 35 pst. We see that batteries are also starting to play a role in stabilizing the power system. In Germany, Statkraft has recently put into operation a battery storage system with over two million iPhone 6 batteries. Statoil shall test a new battery storage solution for power from sea wind in the world's first floating wind farm off the coast of Scotland. This may increase efficiency and reduce sea wind costs, which may open up new business opportunities in a growing market. It is largely in the intersection of energy and transport that the climate battle will be decided. Innovations in energy and transport are speeding up due to digitisation. The Internet is already the world's most important infrastructure. Now it is also becoming the infrastructure for all other infrastructure. The Internet of Things, together with new storage technologies, can solve many of the challenges of weather-dependent, distributed solar and wind power generation. Just as many poor regions in the world have missed the development of fixed telephone infrastructure, so they can now skip infrastructure as power grids. And when low-carbon means of transport can communicate with each other, future transport solutions will become both more climate-friendly and more user-friendly. The World Bank referred in a letter from the Paris Conference to the effect that effective cross-sectoral ICT solutions can deliver 20 pst. emission reductions by 2030. There can also be significant climate gains in new production technologies. In a new analysis, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimates that when 3D printing will provide more local production of products such as toys, footwear, ceramics and electrical products, transport needs can be reduced by more than 40 pst worldwide. in air transport, 35 pst. in container transport by sea and 25 pst. in road transport. This kind of rapid change is driven not least in the world's two largest economies, the United States and China. The electricity policy of the Chinese authorities is very ambitious. Electric car sales were quadrupled from 2014 to 2015. In China’s energy mix, the share of coal fell while water and wind have increased. Now solar is accelerating for real. Five years ago, barely any solar energy existed in China. Last year, the country accounted for a quarter of all solar capacity growth globally, and by 2020, capacity will be further tripled. And it's going to be big. China’s state power company recently presented proposals for a global electricity network that can link everything from large wind farms in the Arctic to large solar installations around the equator. This does not happen tomorrow, but it is a good illustration of how it is now thought of by very important actors. In the United States, changes are not least driven by California’s world-leading technology environments, which have contributed to breakthrough innovations, strong economic growth and at the same time reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Two thirds of new power generation in the United States last year was renewable. Then it is not appropriate to surprise that several large American coal companies have asked for bankruptcy protection, and that solar energy is now competitive in several places without subsidies. The fact that the dynamics of change are so strong in the world's two largest economies was important to make the Paris Agreement possible. Such dynamism will also be essential for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Recently, the presidents of the two countries also made a joint declaration that both the United States and China will formally accede to the Paris Agreement in the current year. Norway is in a difficult transition period. We're going to a new normal where oil and gas are no longer the engine of growth in the economy. However, let's remember that even after the fall in oil prices, oil and gas account for more than 15 pst. of GDP and close to 40 pst. of total exports. If we also expect oil services and equipment, the export share is even higher. The industry represents a unique value creation that has given Norway wealth and well-being at the top of the world. Therefore, let there be no doubt: the transition to the low-carbon society poses particularly major challenges for Norway. We can only meet that challenge and transition with an offensive green competitiveness policy: through more and better research and innovation, better transport solutions and a tax system that invites efficiency, effort and value creation. Mao Zedong has been told that when the wind of change blows, you can build lifes or windmills. He hardly had any renewable revolution in mind. However, for a Norway moving from specialty to conversion, which is therefore more influenced by global economic and technological trends than before, it is important to understand both the direction and the force of global change processes. It is crucial not only for Norwegian climate policy, but for Norwegian competitiveness, that we take advantage of the opportunities offered by technological, economic and societal changes. More and more, the policy needed to create the jobs of the future is the policy needed to bring Norway to the low-carbon society. A number of major international companies make similar assessments. Among others, Google, Microsoft, Infosys, Goldman Sachs and Marks and Spencers will cut emissions from their businesses by 80-100 pst. before 2020. IKEA, British Telecom, LEGO, Philips, UBS, and Norwegian Elopak are among the companies to be operated by 100 pst. renewable energy by 2020. Financial markets are also being notified. The Governor of the Bank of England has pointed out that climate change entails a risk of financial stability. And on the private side, the top manager of the world's largest fund manager BlackRock has established that environmental challenges have real, quantifiable, long-term financial effects. Such effects are also more evident, more frequent and stronger — and more expensive. The flood of the West in the autumn of 2014 resulted in damage to insurance against construction and infrastructure of more than 400 million. NOK and in addition costs were incurred for the repair and securing of watercourses, roads and railways. So the Paris Agreement is part of a global process of change in which technological, economic and political development interacts and reinforces. The French Presidency in Paris read this dynamic well and made a formidable effort, well assisted by the dwindling presidency of Peru. It must also be allowed to say that France made a wise judgment when they chose Norway and Tine Sundtoft to lead the negotiations in perhaps the most important area, namely the increase in the ambitions of the agreement. The Norwegian negotiating team made a very important contribution to our present international legally binding agreement that will apply to all the countries of the world. Let me say a little bit about the individual main parts of the agreement. The overall objective of the Paris Agreement is to strengthen the global response to climate challenges. This should include, inter alia: maintain the global temperature increase well below 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels and aim to limit the temperature increase to 1,5 degrees. The ability of countries to manage the adverse effects of climate change shall be strengthened and financial flows made compatible with a path towards low-emission development. The parties aim at the world becoming climate neutral in the second half of the century, i.e. achieving a balance between man-made greenhouse gas emissions and greenhouse gas uptake. Norway was here a driver by early proposals for climate neutrality in 2050. With the Paris Agreement, all States undertake legally binding obligations: Firstly, for the preparation, notification and maintenance of successive nationally determined contributions and, secondly, for the implementation of national measures aimed at achieving their nationally determined contributions. National contributions may be implemented both through domestic actions and through voluntary cooperation between parties. Successful contributions will represent an increase based on current national contributions and reflect the highest level of ambition in the countries. With this mechanism, the world has broken the rigid division that has marked the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol, which only developed countries have had quantitative emission reduction commitments. That the contributions will reflect the highest level of ambition in the countries will apply to all countries, but will also differ as such a level of ambition will vary with national circumstances, level of development and trends in emissions. In a system of nationally determined contributions, the formulation of the highest level of ambition provides greater security for countries with the highest potential and capacity, while countries with less capacity and opportunities do their best. Global reviews of the world’s position in relation to the long-term objectives of the Agreement shall be held every five years. The first one will take place in 2023. In addition, an additional review is planned in 2018 for emission reductions. Prior to this review, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shall present a special report on the 1.5 degree target. When drawing up their national contributions, countries shall refer to this report. In addition to the five-year cycles, all countries are encouraged to develop long-term low-emission strategies. Climate change already has a major impact on many people: typhoons in the Philippines, extreme droughts in Ethiopia and western parts of the United States and floods in Pakistan are some examples. For many countries, therefore, the negotiations on climate adaptation were as important as emission reductions. From the Norwegian point of view, it is important that governments in all countries take sufficient account of climate change in their planning. This applies not least to the most vulnerable countries. Climate change is also a security policy. For the low-lying island countries, climate change is a matter of survival. But the global climate-squatter image is wider. The US Department of Defence, the Pentagon, characterises climate change as a threat multiplier that exacerbates problems such as poverty, migration, social tensions and conflicts, environmental degradation, inefficient leadership and weak political institutions. EU foreign ministers recently pointed out that climate change has major implications for security policy as well as international trade and cooperation. The Paris Agreement establishes its own collective objective of climate adaptation and at the same time demands the work of each country on climate adaptation. All countries, where appropriate, shall have climate adaptation planning processes and report regularly on their adaptation work. The Agreement also provides for support for the adaptation of developing countries. With regard to climate finance and other support, the Agreement confirms the collective obligation of developed countries to assist developing countries in financing emission reduction measures and adaptation, including capacity building and technology development and transfer. This is based on the existing commitments of the OECD countries under the UNFCCC. At the same time, other countries are encouraged to provide such support on a voluntary basis. This implies a careful but important decoration of the distinction between developed and developing countries. Norway led the negotiations in the field of finance, and our main objective was to achieve such an embellishment, where growing countries such as China, Brazil and South Korea also contribute to climate finance. The agreement encourages countries to strengthen climate finance over time, including through innovative and private funding. As of today, the goal is to mobilise 100 billion. dollars per year for developing countries by 2020. By 2025, a new quantitative target for climate finance shall be established. This part of the Paris agreement is essential for the conclusion and follow-up of the agreement by developing countries. In addition, countries shall contribute to capacity building, technology development and technology transfer. It is worth mentioning some areas of the agreement that are particularly important to Norway and that we can say are particularly pleased with, among other things. due to good Norwegian effort. We were active in negotiating the framework to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries. The fact that this became part of the Paris Agreement was a breakthrough for the Norwegian rainforest rate and facilitates increased efforts in this area from the tropical forest countries and from donor countries. The provision of tropical forests focuses on results-based funding, for which Norway has demonstrated the importance through the Climate and Forest Initiative. Here Norway has set a standard for long-term, predictable and performance-based contributions. The Paris Agreement also provides a framework for cooperation between countries on the implementation of nationally determined contributions and establishes a new market-based mechanism. Market-based mechanisms allow countries to have higher ambitions by implementing cost-effective measures in other countries and are therefore important in order to achieve the ambitious objectives of the agreement. In addition to contributing to emission reductions, the use of market-based mechanisms can contribute to technology transfer, investment and social development in developing countries. Norway, together with some other industrialized countries and the World Bank, has taken the initiative of Transformative Carbon Asset Facility, TCAF. This is a Pilot Programme Fund that can provide the basis for the market mechanism of the new climate agreement. The Fund focuses on mechanisms to cover cooperation across sectors in a country, and the objective is to develop a most effective instrument for such cooperation. Norway has given an undertaking of approx. 210 million. kr for this work. Since the implementation of the Paris Agreement is to take place at national level, the reporting system in the agreement is very important. It is also the compliance mechanism, which will help the parties to comply with their obligations under international law and help countries to implement their national emission obligations. Although the mechanism does not entail penalties, it is a control body to which no party would wish to be entitled. Norway had an international leadership role in setting up a coalition with other ambitious countries when going up to Paris. We will continue our driving role in this coalition of countries that will further develop strong rules and speedy follow-up to the agreement. We will also continue and establish new international partnerships that can help translate the Paris Agreement into concrete action. The interaction between governments and the private sector will be crucial here. The Paris Agreement points out that authorities at all levels of government have to engage in climate action, and I am happy to state that many Norwegian cities and municipalities are doing this in an offensive way. It is also important to see the Paris Agreement, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda for Financing Development and the UN's new sustainability objectives in the context. The UN Secretary-General has given our Prime Minister a global leadership role for the new sustainability goals. This reflects both Norwegian leadership and gives expectations about additional Norwegian leadership. We will provide Norwegian climate finance and other support to effectively assist developing countries in the implementation of their climate plans. The United Nations has supported the development of nationally determined contributions in many developing countries and this support needs to be continued in order to contribute to rapid follow-up. In this work Norway has contributed, and we will continue to do so. We also have heavy contributions through our energy assistance, support through multilateral channels such as the Green Climate Fund, our innovation effort, and not least climate and forest investment. With the price developments we are now looking at sun and wind, energy aid can be used effectively to trigger large private and commercial investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency. The continuation of the forest effort up to 2030 will be a crucial contribution to reducing the continuing high emissions from tropical deforestation. This last is an area where large emission reductions can be achieved relatively quickly, as Brazil has demonstrated to the full in the last decade. The work on reduced tropical deforestation is demanding and also illustrates the importance of systematic public-private cooperation. Large global and regional companies – at all stages of the commodity value chain such as soya, steak, palm oil and pulp – have committed themselves to deforestation-free supply chains. Neither the public sector nor forward-looking private companies can stop deforestation alone. Strong public policy must work together with more sustainable practices from tone-setting companies. Therefore, through the Climate and Forest Initiative, we are actively working with several of these companies and our partner countries. The latter is a good example of how Norway shows leadership also outside climate negotiations. During a visit I had to Indonesia in February, President Jokowi confirmed that Indonesia will impose a total ban on the deforestation or drainage of peat marshes. At the same time, measures are being taken to restore previously damaged peat bogs. Norway shall contribute to the implementation of the Decision. Overall, this could mean reduced CO2 emissions equivalent to 500 times the annual emissions from the oil and gas sector in Norway. The Paris Agreement enters into force when at least 55 parties represent at least 55 pst. of global emissions, has ratified or acceded to it. We actively operate climate diplomacy from Norway to get as many countries as possible to ratify quickly. We also have to do that ourselves. I want to sign the agreement when it is signed in New York on 22 April, and we want to put forward an agreement on ratification for the Storting as soon as possible. The Paris Agreement means that the parties — including Norway — will pursue a progressively more ambitious climate policy. The global temperature target is reinforced, which also means a different scale of what can be considered ambitious. In March last year, Norway submitted our preliminary national contribution to the UN, in the form of an absolute 2030 emission target, after the Stortinget had given its consent. Norway will assume a contingent liability of at least 40 pst. emissions reduction in 2030 compared to 1990. In its treatment of the Norwegian contribution to the Paris Agreement in March 2015, the conditional objective of carbon neutrality from the climate agreement was repeated. This states that Norway, as part of a global and ambitious climate agreement in which other developed countries also assume large commitments, will accelerate the carbon neutrality target from 2050 to 2030. The aim was to help other countries take on commitments more in line with ours. There is no doubt that through the Paris Agreement we have an agreement with a high level of ambition. It is a turning point in international climate work. All countries are now going to contribute very differently from the two-part that have marked the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol, where only developed countries have had quantitative obligations. The five-year notifications and global reviews will provide progress in the contribution of countries over time, thus contributing to the achievement of the agreement's ambitious emission targets. However, the government considers that the premises to accelerate Norway’s carbon neutrality target are not yet met. The agreement leaves to each country the determination of its emissions obligation. For the time being, countries have only notified their indicative contributions. Analysis presented in the Paris Decision shows that the indicative contributions are far from sufficient to be on a track in line with the two-degree target. What commitments countries will finally and effectively assume will only be clarified when they report their commitments to the agreement by 2020. It is therefore too early today to determine whether other developed countries will also assume large commitments in the new agreement. This means that it is natural to assess an acceleration of Norway’s climate neutrality targets in the context of the final confirmation of the Norwegian 2030 target under the Paris Agreement, which will take place by 2020. This has several advantages: firstly, we will make use of the Paris Agreement’s own system of increasing ambitions, where the first review of progress towards the collective emissions targets will take place in 2018. Secondly, by making such an assessment, we will have a far greater chance of achieving the objective of contributing to other countries also taking on large commitments than today when both the EU and others have established that it is not appropriate to increase their ambitions before the review in 2018. Thirdly, it will also make it possible to see any acceleration in the light of the EU Joint Compliance Process and the Special Report to be presented by the Intergovernmental Panel in 2018 on what 1.5 degree ambition will require. The Government will therefore return to Stortinget with an assessment of this issue in the context of the parties notifying their final emissions obligations to the UN after the additional report of the Climate Panel has been received. In addition, in line with the position of the majority of the population, the government believes that the objective of carbon neutrality is a complementary national target and that any emissions cut beyond 40 p.p. in 2030, as a result of an acceleration of this target, will therefore not form part of the joint commitment with the EU. Norway aims at joint implementation with the EU in order to achieve the 2030 climate objectives. Dialogue with the EU on the relevant climate legislation is taking the lead, but will be intensified over the next year. Joint implementation with the EU will provide Norway with a solid, committed and predictable European legislation to base itself on the implementation of our objective. Such joint implementation is now also based on the Paris Agreement. Joint compliance with the 2030 climate objectives makes it natural to cooperate more closely with the EU also in the global arena. We are therefore aiming at a close interaction with the EU on the regular global reviews, the increase in the level of ambition over time and in the reporting under the agreement. On 2 March the European Commission presented a communication on the implications of the Paris Agreement for the EU. The EU is alerting the transition to a low-carbon economy by investing in several policy areas, including energy, funding, innovation and emission pricing. The EU Commission considers the EU target of 40 pst. emissions reduction in 2030 compared to 1990 is in line with the medium-term ambition of the Paris Agreement and therefore proposes to maintain the target. It points out that the EU will participate in the global reviews in 2018 and 2023, which aim to assess whether the notified contributions are collectively in line with the long-term objectives of the agreement. The Commission attaches high priority to the implementation of the 2030 Climate and Energy Framework and states that legislative proposals should be addressed as quickly as possible. A joint fulfilment agreement with the EU will result in Norway contributing in the ETS sector to the implementation of 43 p.m. emission reductions. compared to 2005, within the EU ETS. Norway will also contribute to emission reductions in the non-quota sector by setting a national emission target in line with comparable EU countries. A forestry and land-use regulatory framework shall be included in the climate framework. The EU states that some of the cuts in the non-quota sector can be implemented by purchasing allowances in the EU ETS or by implementing climate action in other EU countries. Norway is already participating in the EU quota system today. The Commission has promoted legislative proposals for the revised allowances system after 2020 and the European Parliament has now begun its examination. The discussion is largely about the distribution of the total volume of allowances between enterprises, sectors and countries. There is also a lot of attention on the issue of so-called carbon leakage. Norway has sent hearings to the EU, we follow the legislative discussion closely, and we are actively participating in the relevant forums. The government wants to increase the effectiveness of the quota system, we want measures to combat carbon leakage, and we want support to be channelled more strongly to those businesses that are believed to be most exposed to carbon leakage. The so-called effort allocation decision on the emission cuts in the non-quota sectors will have a major impact on our new and extended climate cooperation with the EU. The main non-quota sectors are transport, agriculture and construction. The EU shall collectively reduce the emissions covered by the 30 pst effort allocation decision from 2005 to 2030. This objective shall be shared between countries. Each country will have to reduce emissions in the non-quota sector by between 0 pst. and 40 pst, depending on GDP per capita and on cost-effectiveness. Norway’s high level of revenue is moving towards a target at the upper end of the range, while cost-efficiency considerations are moving in the opposite direction. The impact on Norway will be primarily a commitment to significant emission reductions in the transport and agriculture sectors. The input allocation decision establishes a kind of country-wide allowance system with emission rights that can be traded between countries. Access to trade in quotas between countries allows for so-called flexibility in meeting the objectives of the effort-sharing decision. The government supports wide flexibility in the system and recommends that Norway make use of the flexibility in line with EU countries. The Commission’s legislative proposal is expected before the summer. The government is working to set Norway’s emission reduction targets in the non-quota sector on the same basis as for EU countries and, as far as possible, in parallel with EU countries. This may be difficult to achieve, but climate and energy Commissioner Miguel Arias Cañete indicated in March that he will be working on the presentation of a proposal for a Norwegian target figure for non-quota emission cuts at the same time as EU countries. The European Commission has not taken a decision on how to include the forestry and land use sector in the climate framework. The question of how to include forest and other land use is demanding. Norway is committed to ensuring a high level of ambition. Norway’s overall position is that the choice of accounting method should not affect the level of ambition in 2030 and that accounting rules should ensure incentives for new measures in the country sector. This has been communicated to the EU in consultations and discussions with ambitious EU countries in the so-called Green Growth Group. We also support flexibility between the forestry and land use sectors and other non-quota sectors. However, it presupposes the establishment of a comprehensive regulatory framework for accounting for emissions and admissions which ensures transparency and the ability to verify the contribution of the different countries. We are concerned that the part of the forest used to meet targets in other sectors is due to new measures, as a result of an active climate policy. The government’s priority is to influence EU legislation before its adoption. There will hardly be any particular room to change the regulatory regime after its adoption in the EU. We are therefore seeking to influence the design of legislation through meetings with the Commission and the Member States, and not least through our participation in the Green Growth Group. Last year, we reached agreement with the EU that joint implementation is possible. A final agreement between Norway and the EU is expected naturally enough after the adoption of EU legislation. This means that we do not determine the timetable from the Norwegian side, and the final formalities will hardly be in place until the end of 2017. The implementation of the 2030 policy with the EU means that our national follow-up and development of instruments is to a large extent within a European framework. But we're not stopping there. By 2050 Norway shall be a low-emission society. But we don't have to be a low-cost country. Faced with rapid global technological and economic changes, we must therefore build green competitiveness for Norway. We must make it attractive to invest in future solutions, facilitate innovation and ensure the proper functioning of capital markets. The government's strong commitment to education and research is important, and we see that business has responded with a strong increase in its research efforts. Climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy is one of the six long-term priorities of the long-term research plan. But other research will also contribute to building the competitiveness of the future. These include, in particular, the priorities of the seas and enabling technologies. Norway has been an energy nation for a long time and for some decades an oil and gas nation. Even with an ambitious global climate policy, demand for oil and gas will continue for a long time in the future, and Norway still has resources to make good use of. However, we need to be prepared for the fact that the demand for fossil energy will change as renewable alternatives become competitive. The government wants to facilitate alternatives to oil and gas, but that doesn't mean we're going to end with petroleum extraction overnight. And one thing is certain: Norway will be an energy nation even after the oil. That is why we have identified five priority climate policy areas: Firstly, the development of low-carbon technologies in industry and clean production technologies, where we have strengthened the climate and energy fund far beyond the ambitions of the climate agreement and almost tripled the Innovation Norway's environmental technology system. The share of green projects in Innovation Norway's portfolio increased from 28 pst. to 38 pst. from 2014 to 2015. The government also recently promoted a proposal for a new law on public procurement, with a completely new environmental provision which in practice means that all contracting entities in the public sector must have a green plan for their purchases. This will strengthen climate and environmental considerations in public acquisitions as an important contribution to the green shift. Secondly, CO2 management, where the government’s strategy includes a wide range of activities including potential studies to meet the ambition of at least one full-scale CO2 management project by 2020. Thirdly, strengthening Norway’s role as a renewable energy supplier. Europe's largest land-based wind farm will be built in Central Norway. The new cables to the United Kingdom and Germany will increase the transfer capacity to the rest of the world by about 50 pst. Fourth, a green shift in shipping, where we are betting on green innovation using technology and environmentally friendly solutions. Norway has 120 ferry connections. They will be a spearhead for zero and low-emission solutions in the maritime sector. The world's first battery-powered ferries are already in traffic over the Sognefjord. Enova has recently given over 270 million. kr to the charging infrastructure of all roadside connections in Hordaland. The expertise of the Norwegian maritime industry is working through the new construction of ferries with zero and low-carbon technologies, which could also be used in other parts of shipping. The Government has also taken a new initiative within the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation. Together with Japan, the Marshall Islands and the United States, we have proposed binding reporting on greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping. We must be a driver in these negotiations. New requirements must result in the delivery of emission reductions by international shipping. The fifth area of activity is where the challenge is greatest. The transport sector accounts for about one third of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. A significant part of the cuts in the non-quota sector must be included here. The government's starting point is that human mobility is an important asset and that in future it is a good thing to enjoy with minimal emissions. That is why we are strongly committed to public transport. In 2015, 65,6 million journeys were made on the NSB passenger train. That's an increase of 5.9 pst. from 2014, which was the previous record year. The Minister of Transport recently received a basic document for the government’s work on a new national transport plan from the transport centres and Avinor. Through the guidelines for the transport modes, the government – for the first time in the NTP context – ordered a climate strategy. The climate strategy shows that according to transport modes, there is potential for reducing transport emissions by 50 pst. in 2030, compared to the level of the day. The government has not addressed the input of transport modes, but the climate strategy will make an important contribution to the government’s further work on NTP. The proposals of the Climate Strategy are based on the fact that a large part of the emission reductions need to be made possible by biofuels. A transition to biofuels with better sustainability should be a prerequisite for such a scenario. The sustainability criteria for biofuels are set out in the EU renewable directive. The EU Commission is working on proposals for revised Directive from 2020. I am concerned that sustainability needs to be ensured better than today, and addressed the need to strengthen sustainability criteria in my meeting with the Climate and Energy Commissioner in March. In any case, for the transport sector, biofuels are not the whole solution. It is important to also focus on other measures. The tearing development towards higher capacity and lower price for batteries provide great hope. It does not apply only in the passenger car market. For example, routes have set targets for fossil-free public transport in Oslo in 2020, where electric operation will be an important component. Norway is now leading in terms of reductions in CO2 emissions from new passenger cars. Ten years ago, average emissions from new passenger cars were sold in Norway at 177 grams of CO2 per kilometre. The whole new March numbers show that this number is now halved. The emission target for 2020 is likely to be achieved in 2017. Our electric car policy has become an international brand. In 2015, electric car sales amounted to over 17 pst. of the new sale of passenger cars. In addition, the sale of rechargeable hybrid cars is in high growth. We will focus on the experience of electric car policy in our contributions to the European Commission's Communication on the decarbonisation of the transport sector, which comes into the summer. Next year, the Commission will also present proposals for new CO2 standards aimed at the automotive industry towards 2030. When the EU addresses emissions requirements to car manufacturers, it means that vehicles imported into Norway become cleaner. What the EU decides on is therefore important for our own process of reducing emissions in the transport sector. Today’s technological developments can be a major leap forward in the full impact of digitisation on the transport market. At Kongsberg you have to test driverless buses. This development is already well known in passenger cars but also comes to other vehicle segments. Similar tests are already taking place in Aalborg, Denmark. In the field of mobility, technological changes will also interact with the new sharing economy. For more and more, it is important not to own a car, but to have access to transport solutions. It is no longer science fiction to imagine that you have the dashboard in your palm in the form of a smart phone, and with it you can order a driverless splitter car that will drive you to the commuter train. We are also working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from international aviation. The International Civil Aviation Organisation, ICAO, is working to establish market-based instruments for the sector. Norway supports the establishment at the autumn General Assembly of its own global allowances system for emissions from international aviation after 2020. If a good global aviation solution is not achieved, we will work together with the EU to strengthen the European ETS. In a number of matters in the future, the size will be invited to debate and give direction to climate policy. When the European effort allocation is ready, the government will promote a cause for the Storting. In spring 2017, the government will present to the Stortinget a proposal for climate legislation. The Government will follow up the Storting decision to prepare for the establishment of Renewable AS and return to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget. In addition, the government will provide a number of large-scale communications with relevance to Norwegian and global greenhouse gas emissions, for example. the energy notification, the notification of the industry framework conditions, the forest and wood notification and the agricultural notification. In general, the government implements climate action in each budget and through major sectoral target documents, such as NTP, mentioned earlier. In other words, there is not one notification, or one decision, that will take Norway to the low-emission society. But we must ensure that the many decisions both cut emissions and increase Norway's competitiveness. The government's Green Competitiveness Expert Committee comes to the autumn with proposals for solutions that can strengthen Norway's growth capacity through the green shift. The committee closely interacts with business actors, including: with Norwegian Industry on a road map for low-emission development in the process industry. Climate change and climate policy also impose new requirements on labour force conversion. I have therefore specifically encouraged the social partners to work together to integrate climate considerations into their work – and they are doing this. When technological, economic and social changes are as extensive and take place as they are today, it is difficult to formulate policies. Developments in society and business often go faster than political processes. We live in an era of creative destruction and disruptive innovation. This is vital for climate policy. Some are asking for one comprehensive plan for climate policy. However, modern climate policies are no more suitable for plan economies than other areas of society have proven to be throughout history. Ripping global developments currently taking place in low-carbon, renewable low-cost and battery technologies, accelerated by digitisation, automation and robotisation, cannot and should not be detailed. But what we can and should do politically is take decisions that enable Norway to take advantage of the opportunities for development — both to cut emissions and to create green competitiveness for Norway. That is why we need a conversion policy that actively plays on the fast-paced economic and technological shifts that are taking place globally. The green shift is going to require adjustments of us that we don't even see the scope of today, for individuals, businesses and the public sector. And as in all conversion processes, from the time of dinosaurs to today, some will float and some will perish. Those who are resilient will be winners. The government will trigger the change power of the Norwegian society in the service of the climate. New technologies and business models will make the green transition to a competitive advantage for Norway and create new growth, jobs and well-being. Our ambition must be that just as Norway has been and is a winner in hydropower, in shipping, in oil and gas, we shall be a winner in the low-emission society. An active green competitiveness policy is required, with a focus on both green and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1015	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the Grand Duchy. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1029	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1036	First, I would like to send a thank you to the Committee for a good cooperation on a matter that there has been a lot of discussion about along the way. The case has a known history, and it is explained in the comments of the respective parties in the setting. The representative of the Workers' Party contained two points: to present a case in which the government explains the consequences of the introduction of new skills requirements and to come back with a plan for the introduction of new skills requirements to open up to the real-time assessment of previous education and training of teachers; Both proposals received little or no support in the hearing. Following the examination of the Committee, a joint proposal has been submitted by the Left and Right and the Advance Party for a derogation system up to 2025. The Workers' Party proposes that teachers trained under the old scheme should, for a transitional period up to 2025, retain their teaching skills – in practice, exactly the same. Furthermore, several proposals have been put forward at committee level by a majority in the Committee, and I am promoting with this other proposal from the Centre Party, including what we have promoted together with others. When Stortingen dealt with the matter of competence requirements last June, there was not so much debate on the matter. As is well known, the Centre Party alone voted against the introduction of enhanced skills requirements for teaching, but in the autumn the debate was speeded up. Then we got concrete examples of the unfair consequences and practical challenges the change would have, not only for the individual teacher, but also for the schools and municipalities as employers. The Central Party took up this matter during its budgetary procedure in December 2015 and gave the majority the opportunity to amend its decision. This was again downgraded. Today Stortinget has another chance to fix the faults from last year, but unfortunately it will not happen this time, either. Suffering if the majority does its best to make the case appear as if it were settled in, today's decisions will not change the fact. Teachers with teacher training prior to 2014 are separated. Despite the fact that teachers have a few additional years to get the papers in order and get the right number of points of study to be counted, the reality is that during the transition period of nine years they will be locked up in current positions. They risk not being preferred if they want to change jobs. Who would like to hire a teacher who has to pay for his study credits? In addition, there is a risk that many teachers will choose to retire when they reach the age of 62 rather than to pursue further education in terms of working life. In addition, Norwegian, mathematical and English subjects will be prioritised for further training from municipalities. Other subjects such as food and health, arts and crafts, etc. will be able to slow down backwards. We will get an A and a B team at school – those with enough study credits and those with teacher training from before 2014 together with the about 9 000 who are already so-called non-qualified as working at school today. Once again, the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, and the Left Party, have gone out with the teachers. I am sorry that the Labour Party has also chosen to do so. I find it sad that the majority does not have the courage to admit that they have taken a decision that is unwise and that they have not seen the consequences of. Today's creation attempts just show this. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is unnecessary to give retroactive effect to the requirements of competence. We had achieved the level of competence we want, however, because the scheme of continuing training that the red-green people started and today's government have expanded and improved, has now become so good that there are 10,000 teachers who want further training for the autumn. Only about 5,500 get the opportunity. Several teachers lack scores in several subjects. There are many teachers in educational queues in each municipality. About 100 teachers are missing single-level credits only in the early stages of my home municipality. This requires a good community economy and good capacity in colleges. The centre party is also concerned that there should be quality in the offer given to the teachers who wish to continue their training. The University and Higher Education Council said in the hearing that there were many demanding tasks they were facing now when teacher training is going to be five years old and structural processes are under way. I, and probably more, have been asked about the quality of the studies that are now being given from the colleges. I believe the government must follow this closely. There must be quality that is important, not the number of study scores. We also want the government, in cooperation with the teacher organisations, to assess a right and an obligation to continue training. We are promoting the proposal today, and we hope that more people who are engaged in a regular professional update will support such an investigation. The centre party regrets that the majority did not understand what they adopted last year, and we regret to all teachers who do not now feel good enough, that this third time there will not be a majority to rectify that decision either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1077	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien took up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1080	Every day, skilled and engaged teachers offer thousands of lessons in the Norwegian school. School should teach our students how to read, write and calculate. The school will train tomorrow's workers and tomorrow's fellows. It's a formidable task. Teachers are the school's most important resource, and the fact that we have enough teachers, and teachers with the right skills – as professionals, but also as people – is essential to the success of the school in its extensive community mission. In this room we are for teachers' skills. In 2012, we adopted skills requirements for all newly trained teachers. So that is not the background to the motion for a representative of the Workers' Party, and that is why we are here today. It is the government's proposal to introduce skills requirements for all teachers who are the reason why the Workers' Party felt it was necessary to bring the matter back to the Stortinget – the proposal from the government, which was dealt with by the Stortingen last summer, with proposals that proved to be unthinkable by the government. Last autumn, it became clear that the new skills requirements already had a negative impact on teachers and school owners, including the warning of problems by applying for a new job or the experience of receiving a stamp as an unskilled person. In total, around 38 000 teachers could lose the right to teach in some of the subjects they had taught before – teachers with knowledge that we need in school. These consequences were not adequately mentioned in the government's proposal, nor was it part of the Storting's intention to support the bill. This shows that the government had not properly investigated the consequences of the introduction of skills requirements for all teachers. Yes, it was simply bad political craftsmanship by the Minister of Knowledge. Therefore, the Workers' Party took the initiative that Stortinget should re-examine the matter. We made sure that an open hearing was held on 4 February this year. At the hearing, we were confirmed that there is concern about how the new skills requirements are to be implemented, in terms of both practical implementation, temporary use, challenges with demography, and not least when it comes to teachers’ working conditions. The hearing showed that there is strong support for teachers to have competence requirements, but that it is the government’s implementation of the requirements that create problems. Now here we are, in a situation where the Minister of Knowledge is instructed by the Stortinget and forced to make sure that the transition period becomes more real. In addition, in the position we have before us today, the Committee has put forward a number of proposals to ensure better implementation of skills requirements. It is all about everything from the organisation of the provision of continuing education and training to the responsibility of the municipalities. The result is far from what the government first proposed. It shows that it was important for the Workers' Party to re-examine the case. Nevertheless, with the support of the Left, the government insists that teachers receive a ten-year derogation from the requirements. This is the Workers' Party's disagreement. We believe that teachers should maintain the same teaching skills until the new requirements come into force. There shall be no derogation. Only then will there be a real transitional arrangement, as the majority of Storting has intended. The working party knows that the teachers are eager and want to update themselves professionally. To this end, I would like to stress the majority proposal from the Committee that school owners should make plans for teachers who lack competence in the subjects in question to be given good opportunities to acquire such skills in the period up to 2025. The size is about to ensure that the issue of the introduction of skills requirements for all teachers is implemented in a better way than the government initially proposed. I'm glad. However, I would like to stress that we follow the matter carefully. The Committee calls on the Government to return annually to the United Kingdom with an update on the development of the number of teachers in need of continuing training. In this way, we can assess whether we are on track to achieve the goal of getting all teachers to have a good opportunity to acquire the new skills requirements by 2025. I refer to the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1101	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1104	At the 2013 elections, it was a very important promise from the four bourgeois parties that we had to secure a teacher's vow. We were going to introduce five-year master's education – it's now going on. We should increase the admission requirements for teacher training – it is now done. And we were to ensure a strong commitment to continuing education for the teachers. In 2016, 10,000 teachers have applied for further education. 5,050 of these will fit. There is a triple in the number of teachers receiving continuing education compared to the previous government. When the red-green government released their last budget, they increased the investment in continuing training of teachers by zero kroner. Now the tempo isn't just increased, it's tripled. This shows that politics works. It has something to say about who's in charge, it has something to say about which budgets are adopted, and it has something to say about who's in charge of the Ministry of Knowledge. An important element has been the specific competence requirements. For the Right, it is obvious that the requirements of the Storting to address newly-trained teachers should also apply to those teachers who are already in school. It would be strange to say that there is a logical requirement for teachers educated after 2014, but for everyone educated before 2014, the requirement is not particularly important. For this reason, a broad majority of the Stortinget went in to make demands for immersion in the common subjects a teacher teaches in, i.e. 30 credits in primary and 60 credits in secondary and secondary education. This was combined with a much larger effort by the state by taking a much larger part of the bill for continuing training. So the sum of these are the numbers that I'm going to represent. When this was discussed in 2015, it was a broad majority consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Labour Party that voted in favour. The centre party, the Christian People's Party and the SV are opposed to imposing competence requirements. I deeply disagree with that. We think education works. We think it has something to say about the formal competence that you have, and that it has something to say for the results in Norwegian school that 33 000 teachers do not have depression in the common subjects in which they teach. For example, half of Norwegian English teachers do not have depression in English. But even though I disagree with these three parties, at least it's been clear what they meant, and they've meant the same thing throughout the process. The Labour Party voted in favour of the proposal in 2015. When the representative Bjørnø says that there should be no derogation, there is a whole new line, because that is exactly what they voted for when the matter was dealt with. Then they have promoted real competence assessment, and now they finally have a proposal where they say that there should be no dispensation, but they agree with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left that by 2025 all teachers should have the competence. They remove the momentum, but agree with the objective. It is quite remarkable that one party is able to have three points of view in the same case in one year. But now they've taken this position, and then we'll see how long it's gonna take them to redefine. Right, Advance Party and Left have listened to feedback from teacher organisations, e.g. a unanimous refusal to the Workers' Party's proposal to introduce a real assessment of competence. That is why all the parties in this room, with the exception of the Workers' Party, also say no to such a solution. But we have also changed the exemption that was originally introduced, because it created a disturbance in the school that is completely unnecessary, and that therefore needs to be cleared up from our side as well. That is why we have changed the derogation over the next ten years, up to 2025, from being at the municipal level – the employer – to applying to the individual teacher. It clarifies and creates a security that we believe is important to keep pace, precisely that the pressure is on the employer, on the school owner, but that the individual teacher in the classroom knows that the exemption applies to the individual, not to the municipality as a whole. In addition, we have asked the government for a number of clarifications, follow-up, for which there is a relatively broad majority. It is important that the education that teachers receive is of high quality, that it can be carried out in a simple way, that it is available in the community, and that this is not something that needs to be spent a lot of time. It is also important to have clear plans to achieve this goal in 2025, because then we also know that the pace is up. The most important thing about this is that the students learn more. They will do so with the policy adopted today by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. With that, I address the proposal that the Right Party is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1125	The representative of Henrik Asheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1128	There has been a good discussion in the Committee on this proposal, and this has led to sound reflection on Norwegian school and quality requirements. We in the Progress Party are clear adherents of competence requirements for teachers in the Norwegian school, regardless of when they were trained. Fortunately, both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left agree to continue the requirements of competence, which means that all students are to be taught by a teacher with depression in the basic subjects. These parties also agree that a derogation should be granted to teachers trained before 2014 from this requirement until 1 August 2025, while stressing that it is the responsibility of the school management to use their teaching resources in the most appropriate way for students to learn. There is a general consensus that the quality of teachers is most crucial for good results in the classroom. A 2014 survey shows that many primary school teachers do not have formal competence in the subjects in which they teach. In total it is approx. 33,000 teachers who teach in one or more common disciplines, who do not meet the qualifications requirements. This is part of the background that the Stortinget has decided to demand that all primary school teachers who teach mathematics, Norwegian, English, Sami and Norwegian sign languages have a deeper understanding of that subject. At the same time as the new skills requirements are introduced, the number of continuing training places for teachers is increased. The government has warned that the effort to continue training is to increase the competence of teachers who want to do so. It is not the case that the teacher’s level of competence is something that will happen overnight. Both the Storing and the Government are aware that, for both capacity and professional reasons, it is necessary to provide for a long transitional period for the introduction of the competence requirements. Municipalities and county councils have therefore been given 10 years to meet the new requirements. The party notes that most organisations and bodies are opposed to the introduction of real-time competence assessment, as the draft representative suggests. It will include, among others: pointed out that real-time competence assessment would result in difficult demarcations and increased red tape. The promotion party is to reduce school bureaucracy, not to increase it. The Party welcomes the end of an overall committee and asks the Government to ensure that the provision of continuing training is of good quality, adapted to regional needs, and that it needs to be organised in a way that minimises unnecessary use of time for the individual teacher. The party has long been committed to providing further training to a greater extent through online solutions. This will make it easier for teachers who, for various reasons, do not have the opportunity to leave for further training. I have also received feedback that online offers in combination with collections where several teachers from the same school participate in the education provide very good benefits. We are therefore pleased that the Committee asks the government to facilitate this. The Progress Party will stress that there are many skilled teachers in school, but it is still a problem that so many teachers today lack depression in one or more common subjects, and we therefore believe it is right to make demands on teachers' employers, namely the school owners, to ensure teachers the skills they themselves have been looking for for for many years. We are pleased that the government has now taken this into account and implements clear skills requirements that provide increased quality in Norwegian school and that will help students learn more. The Advance Party is also pleased that, together with the Left and Right, we have been made clear through this case that no teachers were separated. Dispensation from competence requirements is granted until 2025, but it is up to the school management to use their teaching skills for the benefit of students’ learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1151	Let me first stress that the Christian People's Party is to strengthen school competence through clear qualifications for teachers, so when the representative Asheim says that the Christian People's Party does not want qualifications, it's wrong. We are also warm defenders of a commitment to continuing training for teachers, and we also supported the introduction of higher skills requirements in the fields of mathematics, English, Norwegian and Sami when the Stortinget dealt with this issue in 2012. The introduction of requirements for professional immersion and a specific competence in the central subject of newly-trained teachers is in place. There is a link between the competence of the teachers in the subjects and the learning outcomes of the students, and we need teachers who have both solid professional skills and the ability to communicate this knowledge to their students. The challenge came when the bulk of the population in the last autumn entered to give retroactive effect to these skills requirements, that they should also apply to teachers trained before 2014. The changes were made despite clear warnings, and they made strong reactions throughout School Norway. The fear was that by giving the skills requirements retrospectively, skilled teachers would be pushed out of classrooms by years of valuable pedagogical experience. Of course, neither school nor Norway can afford it. Experience also shows that the regulatory changes have had a negative impact. For example, the consequence was that if a new teacher came to a school that had taken the required extra study credits in Norwegian, English or math, the principal had to let the newcomer take over to teachers who might have worked with these subjects and taught them for 20–30 years. It's unfair, and it's a separation of capable teachers with years of valuable experience. Extra unfairly, this seems to be true of teachers who have previously wanted further training in their subjects, but who never got the opportunity. Other teachers have again used their share of continuing training to deepen, for example: class management or other subjects within which the school also needs competence. I understand very well that those teachers today feel that they are left with black teats. Another problem is that for teachers who do not meet the new requirements and who are not in a fixed employment, returning to the teaching profession will be very difficult. Schools will, of course, prefer candidates who meet the formal requirements when recruiting new people. A teacher without a regular job is also not part of the system that provides opportunities for continuing training. For many, the way into other professions is likely to be short. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government parties and the Left in retrospect have realised that the changes have unfortunate consequences and that they will introduce an exemption for all teachers until 2025. It will give school leaders and teachers some longer time to provide the necessary further training, and it may reduce the need for unskilled temporary help. But that doesn't solve the problems. The math teacher who left school to try out a job in business will still have trouble getting back to the classroom. Norwegian school needs him, we need him, but we've shut the door for him. The teacher who is employed at a school without meeting the formal requirements will have problems getting a job at another school if he needs or wants to move to another city, even though he has a publicly approved teacher training, long learning experience and a lot of valuable real skills in his luggage. Newly educated teachers, who have received a training offer that meets the new requirements, will stand in front of him in line. The Christian People's Party says yes to clear qualifications for teachers. We agree to a commitment to continuing education and training, and we believe that a targeted commitment to continuing education and training over time will be enough to achieve the goal of increasing the competence of teachers in the Norwegian school. But we say no to a policy that can lead to the loss of skilled teachers and the loss of valuable competence in school. That is why the Christian People’s Party – and the Central Party and the Socialist Left – are proposing today that the Grand Government amend the legislation so that teachers with approved education from before 2014 continue to have full teaching skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1170	The issue of skills requirements for teachers has been a long and quite difficult matter – long because there have been more rematches since the Stortinget decided that there should be competence requirements for teachers who teach math, Norwegian, English, sign language and Sami, and difficult because it has created anxiety and uncertainty among our teachers. Together with the government parties and the Workers' Party, the Left has been clear that we want it to be a competence requirement for teachers in school – this is because we want the students to be taught by teachers who have a certain depth in the subject. In particular, when it comes to education policy, we must recognise the importance of education. Therefore, it does not matter whether the teaching is conducted by a teacher with depression or a teacher without immersion in the subject in question. So it will always be that there are very good teachers who don't have the current depression, and not quite so good teachers who have the depression of all the world. This isn't about creating a system that ensures universal truth that applies to everyone. This is about creating a system that ensures that the teachers who teach in those subjects also have competence in those subjects, because we believe that it is important for the student's learning outcomes. The left is still insisting that we have competence requirements at school, and we haven't turned around at this point. When the government's proposal was adopted last year, as we see it, it was a premise on the part of the Storting that it was a real transition period of ten years, so that we could phase in the new regime in a smooth way. As I have understood it, it is the completion of the ten-year transition period that has created the greatest commitment in schools. I am therefore pleased that the Left has now got the government on a proposal that not only gives the school owner ten years to provide enough teachers with the current competence, now each teacher has got ten years to get the necessary further education. This will mean that it is no longer necessary for the school owner to choose a newly educated teacher rather than an experienced teacher when the timetable is to be drawn up over the next ten years. This means that in future application procedures it will not be the case that school owners will choose the newly educated candidate because they will then not be able to re-train the older and more experienced candidate. Through the proposal we are adopting today, we have made the transition period real, both for school owners and for individual teachers. However, it shall be emphasised that it is the responsibility of the school owner to ensure compliance with the requirements of competence. School owners must therefore maintain full pressure on continuing and continuing training in the future, and the Storting will follow developments in this area. It is important to keep a steady pressure, so that we ensure that all those who want and want to have further education get it. Here, too, we at Stortinget must follow this up through the budgetary decisions we are going to make in the next few years. We need to set up and provide the training needed to get this done. In the case of teachers who do not work at school today, but all of us want to get back to school, it is particularly pointed out that these too must be given the opportunity to acquire the necessary study credits, even if they are not captured by the regular provision of further and subsequent education for the individual municipalities. As far as the Labour Party's proposal is concerned, I must admit that I have some difficulties in understanding the difference between this proposal and the majority proposal, when I compare. The consequence is, as I can see, the same thing. Teachers currently trained before 1 April 2014 may continue to teach as before the next 10 years. So it's either that the Workers' Party with this proposal says that the skills requirements don't come into force until 10 years from now, or that the teachers concerned are exempted from these requirements, but without using the word 'dispensation'. As I said, the consequence is anyway the same. The only difference must be that the pressure on the municipalities disappears if we were to say that the competence requirement does not apply from now on. Then it is easier for municipalities to lean back and insist that skills requirements do not apply in 10 years. But no matter how the Labour Party's proposal is meant to be understood, it is positive that the reality is the same as in the majority's proposal, and that it is therefore a large political majority that supports the reality of that proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1190	No matter what kind of question you ask the government about school, the answer is the same: more continuing training of teachers. SV is strong for the provision of continuing training to teachers, it was under an SV State Council that today's efforts on it started. SV is strong for teachers’ competence requirements; it was under an SV State Council that today’s competence requirements were in place. But when the answer is always the same, it is impossible to read any other conclusion from it than that today's government believes that the main problem in school is that teachers are too bad. Our diagnosis is another: we believe that the main challenge in school is that teachers are too few. Therefore, we also believe that the exception previously granted in relation to the competence requirements for teachers and employees in teaching positions before 1 January 2014 was a reasonable exception, because very many of these teachers are very experienced and skilled educators, because very many of them have full general teacher training, and because, through the rapid expansion of the offer, they are now given the opportunity to update professionally. SV has warned against retrospective force from day one. It was said here that the Center Party was alone, initially. It has been pointed out in the Chamber here on a number of occasions before there was an incursion in the first vote, it is very clear from the setting last year that both the Christian People's Party and the SV were opposed to the introduction of a retroactive force for skills requirements. What's our rationale for that? Firstly, it is about the capacity of the university and higher education sector — which makes sense its use — with the major tasks it is now assigned to continuing training and the development of a new five-year teacher training. Secondly, it's about our fear of the consequence of a great need for qualified temporary workers. Paradoxically, the majority's demands, at least as they were last summer, can mean more non-qualified at work in Norwegian school. 38 000 general teachers, with the proposal, would lose the opportunity to teach English, Norwegian and mathematics. And then we get a lot of messages that this leads to teachers being offered temporary jobs instead of permanent ones, that problems arise when they move, in short, that the power between the employer and the employee is shifted. And this is affecting the hardest of young, newly-trained general teachers who haven't been able to get a firm position before these political changes came, and the teachers who have been trained before 1 January 2014 but haven't necessarily moved into a permanent job yet. Several of them are in a real mess. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen's proposal was poorly prepared and poorly implemented, and the feeling of separation, which one now finds at the school around the country, we must take seriously. After all, we politicians should now make sure to raise the status of teachers, strengthen motivation – instead, many feel bored, and feel that politicians do not appreciate the skills that exist out there. The medium-term solution the majority is now in favour of is a strong recognition that the decisions made by the same parties last summer were irresponsible, but they still represent the wrong use of resources and still give the wrong signal. That's why we think it's better to reverse the decision and go back to the previous exception. SV also proposes to remove the proportion of 25 pst. for the teachers who are taking courses that follow the requirements that are now coming. In practice, the bulk of population introduces an obligation to re-train. Then it's unreasonable that teachers should be charged part of that bill themselves at the same time. There's a pattern that when the Right takes power in the knowledge sector, there's going to be conflicts in the school. Right is a policy that, in important areas, builds distrust of the teachers and creates frustration around the schools, and with the divorce proposals, Røe Isaksen has caused unrest in the school he is set to lead, just as Kristin Clemet did in his time as the school council. It's unwise. We need politicians working with the sector instead of the opposite. With this, I would like to address the proposal that SV is on its own in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1211	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1214	With the document «Teacher's Lift – On the Team for the Knowledge School», the government wanted to help us get a school where students learn more. An important part of it was to introduce skills requirements in some key disciplines and that the competence requirements would apply to everyone in school. It is a contribution to ensuring that the school is a place where teachers develop professionally and in a professional community, but it is also an important contribution to education. I believe that professional competence is a prerequisite for good teaching, but it is not a sufficient prerequisite for being a good teacher. It also has to be worked with other teachers at school, and of course you also need good educational and didactic skills. Back to competence requirements. In its opinion, the Committee stated that «professional competence is necessary to motivate and disseminate knowledge in a good way». That's good, then we all agree on it. That was why the introduction of skills requirements also received a broad majority when it was dealt with at Stortingen last year. Today, we could be here to debate a proposal to set up a system to assess the real competence of the 33 000 teachers who do not meet the skills requirements. The feedback from interested parties has shown us that most people believe that this is not a good idea, so I am happy that we also agree on it. Teachers, of course, acquire valuable skills through their own practices and professional development work with colleagues, but formal continuing training is something else. At the same time, the debate has also revealed that the intentions and consequences of the implementation of skills requirements have been understood differently, both in this Assembly and by teachers and school leaders. That is why I am pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left now propose to make it clear that all teachers should have a derogation from the competence requirements until 2025. And just to underline it, that means we've come a step closer to what the Left wanted. However, I think this is a good solution, because it ensures that the requirements of competence remain in school, at the same time as the freedom of dispensation, which from the very first moment was there, and which was clearly also for Stortinget, gets bigger, becomes absolutely safe and linked to the individual's teaching. It should mean that we now have peace of mind in the matter, and that the competence requirements remain, not as some vague possibility in ten years, but they are there and will come into force in ten years. Then we can concentrate on the work of giving teachers the opportunity to deepen and further develop their knowledge and build on the experience they already have. In the years to come, over 33 000 teachers may want to build on their skills. We have, as we know, set in motion a large-scale commitment to further education for teachers. That bet is going to continue. There will be funds and places of study in the years to come, not only during the decade, but also beyond that. So the applicants show that Norwegian teachers respond to this. Over 10,000 teachers applied for further training this year. That's a high-ranking number. It was also high last year, and now there are more places than ever before. At the same time, the school owners have also known their visit time and have accepted record-breaking applications, not only in Norwegian, English and mathematics, but in all school subjects. That's the way it should be. Now school owners must continue to play an active role so that we can implement this promise in school. As an employer, the school owner shall have an overview of the position of competence of his employees. From this point of view, they must make plans for teachers who lack competence in the relevant subjects to be given good opportunities for continuing training up to 2025. We're going to closely follow developments to make sure that it happens, and are very happy that the Storting also specifies that it needs to be. As I said at the outset, there are several things that need to be a good teacher, but professional immersion is also important. Professional immersion provides the basis for good, professional debate and for the collective promise needed at each school for students to receive the education they need in a world where knowledge is becoming increasingly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1237	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1240	A broad majority of the Stortinget agreed with the new skills requirements for teachers. And as I was in my post, the red-green government, with broad support, introduced skills requirements for new graduates as early as 2012. But when the Right Party government was to introduce the requirements for all teachers, there was a problem. The transition period of 10 years, which would allow teachers who did not meet the qualifications, to be re-trained without being removed from education, did not work. Fortunately, a large majority on Stortinget agreed with the Workers' Party that changes had to be made, and that the matter was brought up again to Stortinget. I really have a slightly open question. What does the Council of State have to say about the way this matter has been dealt with, by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1247	I believe that the system of exemptions to which the Stortinget gave its opinion, to which the majority of the Stortinget agreed, was also a good system of exemptions. But it laid the responsibility on the school owner, who could grant a dispensation, and then we clarified clearly how this was supposed to be understood, namely that it wasn't a purely mathematical calculation, where, if you got in so and so many teachers who filled the skills requirements and had so and so many who didn't, you had to do a shift. It was a professional assessment that the school owner – who could, of course, delegate to the principal – had to take. What makes this system easier – there is no doubt about it – is that it is more transparent. What the Left Party, the Advance Party and the Right have now come to terms with is that there will be a fixed exemption for all teachers individually, which will last ten years. Then I think it's important that you don't thereby also eject the competence requirements, simply because it becomes uncertain if the competence requirements come, and that doesn't necessarily give any motivation to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1254	I am pleased that the Council of State says that it has become more transparent after another round in Stortinget. But still, the government parties will doubt that there will be an exemption for the teachers concerned until 2025. The working party disagrees. We have said that we do not want to put the status of an entire profession on hold by granting them a derogation to carry out their work. We believe that teachers should have the same teaching skills until the new skills requirements come into force in 2025. Why does the Minister of Knowledge doubt that teachers should have a derogation rather than a formal qualification, when the requirements only come into force in 10 years' time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1261	First of all, it is a little special to be accused of waiting for a position that the Workers' Party agreed on just a short time ago. I just have to remind you what the Labour Party voted for. The Workers' Party voted that the qualifications requirements should apply to all schools, that there should be an exemption scheme, but the Workers' Party also wanted a proposal for a real competence assessment. I have explained why I believe it is important that the skills requirements are not pushed into an uncertain future – as the Workers' Party wants – but that they are there now, and that the school owners know that they are coming, but that they are coming in too full force only in 2025. And I have to admit that for the individual teacher it will be a little difficult to see the difference between what the Workers' Party means and what the majority has now proposed. I believe it is important that the skills requirements are maintained – not abolished, as the Workers' Party wants, and launched into an uncertain future. But for the individual teacher, I think it'll be a bit of a hip-hop thing, to be completely honest, if you call it an exemption scheme, or if you just introduce the scheme in ten years at the exact same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1268	After today’s debate – sail if it is not complete – it will be such that there will be an extended deadline for teachers to be able to take these extra study credits. It requires that approx. 38 000 teachers are offered further training in the subjects in which they do not have their study credits. It also depends on whether the employer will give priority to this expenditure, and not least on the availability of relevant study facilities. I only have a small example that I would like to read out, and it is from my home municipality at the youth age, which I mentioned so far instead. There it is as follows: four to five teachers who lack 30 study credits in Norwegian and eight to nine teachers who need 30 study credits in childhood mathematics six to eight teachers who need 15 study credits in Norwegian five to six teachers who need 30 study credits in Norwegian, etc. It's very complex and fragile, and pre-school teachers are also part of this, the ones who have now gone to school. So I just want to ask: can the Council of State guarantee that all teachers who have completed their education before 2014 will be able to achieve full teaching skills by 2025, and what should happen if they do not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1290	First, I would like to stress again that it has always been set up for a transitional period. So even with the system we've had up to now, it's been set up for a transitional period of ten years. The difference is who gives the derogation. Now there's a general dispensation, so in the past it was the school owner, who would like to delegate it to the principal, who could give it. What I've been saying all along is that now that we have more than 5,000 places in continuing education, and there's a level we're going to be in the years to come -- it can of course go up a bit -- it's enough that we have the opportunity to give both further education to the teachers who need it, within the central disciplines, and also have the opportunity to provide further education in other central schools, and to fill up a part that needs it. So with good planning on the part of the municipalities – they have to take their employer responsibility, and if they don't do anything about this and wait till the deadline comes, they will be left with a school where they lack teachers to teach in the central subject, which has serious consequences – I believe that today's system is well enough rigged for anyone who wants it to be able to receive further training.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1297	Norway is facing a potential shortage of teachers. The SSB estimates that we can go towards a deficit of almost 38 000 teachers in 2025, the same year that the dispensation period expires. At the same time, we know that many teachers have left school and the teaching profession to try out in other professions. About 35,000 trained teachers now work outside the school — the vast majority of them with teacher training from before 2014. To meet the need for enough teachers in the future, there has to be a goal that we can get some of these back. With the challenges we are now facing in the Norwegian economy, it will probably also be part of those who want to return to school. Does the Council of State see that the strengthened skills requirements, including for teachers trained before 2014, can make it more difficult for these people to return to the teaching profession, and what will he do to give them a way back to school again?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1305	I think the representative used some old numbers from the SSB, but I don't remember the numbers in his head right now. In the new study to the SSB, which came about six months ago, there are far fewer teachers lacking in their projections. So we don't know what kind of competence the teachers who are not in school have. For those teachers who have competence, e.g. Study credits or depression in mathematics or Norwegian or something like that would be unproblematic. So I think that since we have a long period, and this is a system that's going to work, we have to constantly consider whether we need new tools, and some of what I think we should assess, is whether we should see if we're going to open up the continuing education system for some people who don't have permanent employment. There will be a way to ensure that teachers who come back to school can also get further education before they get permanent employment at school. Then it must also be said that the school already knows that they are going to have to use the continuing education system, and so do the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1314	The Council of State says in its statement that when we have finished this debate on exemption, we can finally start to focus a little on what really matters, to get this further training done, to have full pressure on the continuing and continuing education system that we have today. I am pleased because I fully agree that this is where we, as politicians, must work too fully in the future. And it's going to be on the left with the decisions to be made on it. I want to follow up on what Tingelstad Wøien was into. Now we have ten years to get this in place, but we can't quite ignore that not every school in this long country can meet the requirements of these ten years. It could be that there's some school that doesn't get it. Now it is probably not the Minister of Knowledge who is the Minister of Knowledge in ten years – historically, it is few who sit for so long – but what does the Minister of Knowledge think if there are any schools that haven't done it in the ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1321	In ten years' time, the government has been sitting for another period, and then we may have lost a choice, but then it's probably almost that I can have my comeback as a knowledge minister. If you read what we have presented in the Teacher's Lift, we say that the general exemption is to be closed. But we also say that we might need an opening for example. a part of the smallest schools, because this is practically impossible to obtain. I think, however, the most sensible thing to do is to do what the Storting adds up to now, to which the majority is adding up now, namely to have full pressure on continuing education. Then we have to constantly assess quality, we have to assess how the offers can be more decentralised, and we have to make sure that we have a good overview of the progress in the municipalities. And then you have to look at when you start approaching the full entry into force of your skills requirements, if you still have to have a small dispensation. But the starting point is that the one we have today is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1330	I am pleased that the Right at least plans to lose the election in 2021. We appreciate that, and then we'll see if we can make it faster! In practice, with the proposal now being made, and with the decisions taken last summer, teachers with the old general teacher training are obliged to continue training. In such a picture, it is reasonable to maintain the requirement of an excess of 25 pst in practice to continue to teach.? Now I am not asking about the proportion in general, but specifically for teachers who take training on the basis of the decisions that are now being made. Is the Council of State willing to assess the proportion of equity in future budgetary rounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1337	It is important to say that although there is a strong desire for continuing training, this is the responsibility of the employer. Secondly, this does not have any consequences for the position. There are people in public who have presented this as if you could almost lose your job. Of course you won't. But it says something about the possibility of teaching specific subjects. This is not an obligation for the individual teacher to do so, nor is there anything the employer can oblige you to do or force you to do — and the two things are related. The Quality Competence strategy, which we have signed with the parties, states that the starting point today is the distribution between the State, local government and employees that is, and any changes from there will have to occur later. But I believe that the continuing education strategy is in line with the distribution we have today. I also think it is an advantage for others that you are a little present at school while you are taking further education, just to be able to use some of what you are learning continuously in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1344	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1349	First, I would like to stress the following: When the Council of State claims that the Workers' Party is pushing the skills requirements out in the future, it is wrong. The working party believes that competence requirements from 2025 are appropriate. Until then, all teachers will work at school, as today, with the approval they have today. That's our point of view. Next to the government parties and the representative Henrik Asheim, who said he was pleased with the clarifications and clarifications that are now coming: I think we all agree on that – we are happy about that, absolutely all of us. But it shows the following: bad political craftsmanship on the part of the government. It shows that it was right and absolutely necessary to raise the matter, as the Labour Party has done with this proposal. It also shows that it was good to have a broad consultation in Stortinget, where many counter-representations emerged. And it shows that it was right to get a big deal of treatment. But it also shows that, despite the best intentions – for them we have absolutely all – the Right-State Council underestimated the practical consequences of its policy and, to a small extent, was responsive to counter-conceptions. That is what this debate is about: it is about the implementation of skills requirements – not about them. Everyone here wants skills requirements, but it needs to be implemented in a way that does not harm teachers and students in Norwegian school today. The question I'm asking myself is whether the same is true for other areas of the Right School Policy, because it means something who controls, as the representative Asheim said in his statement. And it's very important that those who govern know what the consequences of the government's policy are, know what it really means -- not just what's best on the radio. In this case, the government did not know what the consequences were of implementing these requirements in this way. They had to have help from Stortinget. In what other important matters might the same be the case? What are the consequences of changing the admission requirements of teacher training? The representative Tyvand has quite rightly pointed out that we are going to lack teachers in the future. What are the consequences of that? What are the consequences of the conversion of teacher training, which is now promoted by the government? It has been met with considerable resistance, not least to dampen the pedagogical profession. Does the government take that into account? I'm very uncertain, unless the Stortinge can press the Council of State once again into a course that takes into account the reality in Norwegian school, not just what is suitable for the Right Election Council on the radio.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1362	I am pleased that the competence requirements seem to be standing, as they are now presented from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. I hope that the flexibility put in for the first decade can help to give the school sector the peace needed to implement it in a practical and good way. But I think it's a little strange when the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party in the setting say that ‘there will be unnecessary use of resources if the provision of continuing training is used to formalise the real competence of experienced teachers already in full’. That it should not be important to formalise the education and competence of teachers, which are the foremost intermediaries of knowledge and our foremost champions of the importance of education, rhymes poorly. What kind of signal will it be to send to the students, the school sector and society? I am among those who have wondered about the Workers' Party's proposal on real competence assessment – not only because of the impact such a proposal would have on costs and work, but most of all on that signal effect and the knowledge view of such a proposal. I'm not a moment in doubt that learning through practice is both valuable and effective, but I'm pretty sure that competence becomes even more valuable when formalized. I want the good, experienced teachers to stay in the classroom, and it is just such a desire that lies behind the government's heavy commitment to continuing education. When we see the way both teachers and school owners have accepted the offer of continuing education, no one can doubt that it is delayed. I get to say as Aslak Bonde said about this year in the morning paper on March 18th: There will be more teachers who are sinking new credits this year than it was last year, and all the years before that. As politicians, it's our job to make things easier for students to learn more. By contributing to the provision of professional replenishment and skills building for teachers, the security and prerequisites for a good interaction between teacher and student and between school and society are enhanced. Not least, we show our students that there is consistency between life and learning when we encourage them to seek knowledge and education. As this case can now be adopted, we ensure the necessary flexibility in its implementation. We will not – as the representative Tingelstad Wøien says – create an A-layer and a B-layer. Norway is going to have a school with a big A team.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1380	First to the representative Asheim, who's going to talk after me: he's always trying to say that we're against skills requirements, but we're not – like both the SV and the Christian People's Party, so that's what they say. I also think it's a paradox that the Left in the line change with the Council of State seems to be going to end this matter, so that we can talk about what's really important. If you think so, I think you really don't understand how important this matter is to those who work in the Norwegian school. The representative Tveiten Benestad says it's important to formalize education, and we agree. Then I wonder what is the government strategy for the 9,000 so-called non-qualified people who work at school today. That's not the government's first priority. What is the government's first priority is those who already have an education. I think that is also a paradox. I went up to the pulpit now to illustrate the practical challenges for you, and then I will take some examples from my own municipality. They also have a good overview of the teachers who have different needs, and there are about 100 teachers who lack teaching skills with the new requirements. They range from 15 study credits in Norwegian to 30 study credits in English. At the same time, when we know that training a teacher costs between NOK 5000 and NOK 80,000, it tells us that this is a big issue for the government, but also for the school owner. It therefore requires a good municipal economy. Two examples: Take a teacher at the nursery with a quarter-year-old in Norwegian from general teacher training in the 1990s. Which parts of the current 30 study credits in Norwegian for 1–7. class do these 15 grades qualify for? A most relevant question is whether this and more teachers actually need to start all over again. Example No. Article 2 is replaced by the A math teacher with 30 credits of mathematics from teacher training. The college says it'll be a big professional jump and very demanding to start math 2 for 5-10. Steps and recommends that the teacher consider starting with Mathematics 1 for 5-10. steps, i.e. start all over again. It actually means substantiating that teacher's previous competence. These are practical examples that both school owners and teachers around the world are wondering about today. In addition, there is a large group of pre-school teachers – as I mentioned in the line change – who have been given access to school and start teaching there. They also lack Norwegian, English, etc. It goes without saying that it is Norwegian, math and English that must be given priority in continuing training, as it is in these fields that the requirements for competence have been raised. However, the challenge is not only to get the employer’s permission to continue training, but also how and when it can be done. I'll be back later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1411	Yes, I have now been reminded over and over again that everyone in this room is for the competence requirements of teachers. That's really nice. But then it gets even a little weirder, to be completely honest, if you think that skills requirements are important, that it is important for students' learning that the teacher who teaches them has depression in the common subjects in which they teach, and then you think it is not important for the teachers who were educated before 2014 – but therefore very important for the teachers who were educated after 2014. I also find it quite difficult to understand what the Labour Party really disagrees with in the majority proposal. If you think that the qualification requirement is going to apply to all teachers in Norwegian school from 2025, what is the problem of having a pace at it, a click on it, that makes us reach that goal? Martin Henriksen can answer that in his next post, because I see that he has signed up for me – say what is the difference for a teacher in the classroom with the proposal that the Workers' Party will vote for, and the proposal that the majority will vote for. So it has been said that this is bad political craftsmanship. Point 1: A Council of States promoting a proposal for a derogation requirement of competence aligns it, together with the majority of the Grand Duchy, in order not to cause confusion in the classroom, and is currently adopting requirements of competence to apply from 2025 with a derogation; it is not a bad political craft; it is the combination of a Council of States that listens and that gets its policy implemented. The second is that if you first talk about bad political craftsmanship, it is a little special to get that criticism from a party that stands alone today and says that we should have a real competence assessment, a proposal that all parties in the school are opposed to. I honestly don't understand where they got the proposal from. But now they're promoting it alone. Everyone else — including all teacher organisations — is opposed to it, and the student organisations are opposed to it, and the students are opposed to it. But this is just one of three positions that the Workers' Party has had. I have to admit that when we were dealing with this matter, I almost dared not turn on the radio in the morning, because new proposals came all the time from the Workers' Party – which was the very opposite of the previous one. It was completely impossible to understand what the party meant. It's bad political crafts. Then there was a round in the line exchange about who's going to be the Council of State in 2025. I don't think any of us know that. But the question really reveals a very important point. If we just decide that in 2025, that requirement has to occur, without having any consequences for what we adopt in this room now, it becomes quite problematic. What we are now adopting – unfortunately against the Labour Party’s votes – is that the derogation applies to 2025, but the requirement applies from now on. After all, this accumulation in this period has set the requirement, but given the exemption, and thus one has also pressed up. This is not an election campaign stunt from the Right, as the representative Aasen said, it is absolutely crucial knowledge policy for the students. What the Workers' Party should go to the elections is a little unclear, also in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1423	This case shows why it was absolutely right for the Workers' Party to ensure that this case came up for a new discussion in this room. I heard Henrik Asheim's posts now and earlier, and he said, among other things. now the government – the Right Party and the Advance Party – has listened to the teachers. He said they're making changes and clearing up some of the things that have created anxiety. It's a kind of creative storywriting that's easy to pull off the smiley tape. If the Right and Advance Party had got their will, none of this would have happened. There is a label with wings that the Right is hanging around about everything they can do, but the core of this case is that the government's bad craftsmanship and winging have been the problem since last summer. First, they did not properly inform Storting about the consequences of the introduction of the first decision – probably because they had not properly investigated it. As a result, the Labour Party has promoted the proposal that we are discussing today. Then, as late as February 9th, the Council of State held to the political quarter that the arrangement he and the government had proposed was unproblematic and clear. On 12 February the Ministry sent out a circular. It didn't solve anything. Finally, they made a new proposal from the Left, which, according to Trine Skei Grande, they joined at night until Saturday before the National Government meeting in the Left. That is one of the proposals we are discussing today. Today, governments and government parties are forced into something they really wouldn't be involved in, and are forced to clean up a bit of their own mess. If the government had got its will, not a single change would have happened. Teachers would still be completely separated, and teachers' protests and feedback would be smooth ignored. If the Left had not given the government the rescue plan on which they now belong, the bulk of the population would have forced them to go even further. In the opinion of the Labour Party, that should have happened. The working party is in favour of competence requirements, but to impose such requirements in such a way that there is uncertainty and uncertainty in school and with such poor planning and preparation as the government has set up, the Stortinget had to press the break button. From today on, the demands made by the government had one impact on teachers in school — the opposite of what the government had given the impression. So we have to have confidence that the teachers want professional updates. It appears, among other things, that by applying for further training by 10 000 teachers. That is why a new proposal was made, and therefore a consultation was held with the organisations, where they pointed to major problems with the proposal, including: in terms of practical implementation, temporary use, challenges with demography and, in particular, the everyday lives of teachers. The result we get today is far from what the government proposed. But the fact that we had this debate in the Storting was absolutely necessary, and that the government is forced into something other than what they really wanted is also absolutely necessary for the everyday lives of the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1436	Governments were quite right that new SSB figures have come in terms of undercovering teachers in the future, and those figures have been slightly downgraded, but by 2020 they have looked at, and not 2025. And even though the estimates of teaching shortages are somewhat adjusted, the situation is still serious, and the challenge is great. Then I am not sure whether the SSB has taken into account that some teachers will choose to leave the teaching profession as a result of the new skills requirements introduced. Then I'm not sure that the SSB has taken into account that someone will choose to retire earlier than they would otherwise, because they may not be motivated to get on the school bench at the very end of their career in order to be able to work the extra years. It may also be a question of whether it is a reasonable economic priority to require those who have a few years left to teach in Norwegian school to continue their education. Then I'm not sure whether the SSB has taken into account that there is now a rating of 4 in mathematics to be admitted as a teacher student. I'm afraid that it can exclude some potentially very good teachers with interest in Norwegian, social sciences, history and who dream of becoming teachers in these subjects, and who won't have the opportunity to get into the teacher's study because they're not good enough in mathematics. I think it is positive that the Council of State in the change of line gave a signal that it might be appropriate to consider opening up the continuing training systems also to teachers who are not in a fixed employment relationship, but I have to say that I find it strange that the Council of State is able to be so calm in view of the challenges we face with future teaching shortages. Then I would like to say to the representative Iselin Nybø, who said that with a ten-year exemption, it will no longer be the case that teachers who do not meet the formal requirements are at the back of the queue: there I think the representative Nybø is wrong. I believe that those who in her own region, in Rogaland, have left the teaching profession, work in the oil industry, for example, and who now want to return to the teaching profession, will experience that school leaders will prefer formal candidates, so that you don't invest in continuing education. So I think that the representative Nybø is wrong, and I believe that the government and the majority of the population are now pursuing a policy that will help to reinforce the teaching shortage we face in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1445	Thank you for the discussion. As I said, I think it's a good solution that comes into place now, but just a little bit for the story. The starting point is: the centre party voted against this case in this room, the Christian People's Party was against this case, but unfortunately voted incorrectly in this room, SV was against this case, but unfortunately voted incorrectly in the hall. So the three parties have always disagreed with the majority. The working party voted in favour of the requirement of competence and for the freedom of exemption, and so they wanted to have a system of real competence assessment. Then the Workers' Party threw itself around at some point in the autumn and decided that they would now re-propose the proposal for real competence assessment, but it was not when the Workers' Party took this matter up again in the Chamber, that the Centre's party did already during the budgetary procedure in the autumn. Then the Labour Party in the press and in a slightly different order based on which media you have spoken to, left an impression – I think at least – in many teachers that they want something quite different, and that they have turned around completely, and now they mean something quite different than what they voted for just one year ago. And so they have ended up with the proposal we have today, which was first a proposal on real competence assessment, which is now only the Labour Party is left with, but which then became a proposal that the skills requirements should not come now, but come in ten years. So it's absolutely right that this is a compromise. I just notice – and this can be worth thinking about for all the parties that are wondering who they're going to work with in the next big period – that every time we find solutions, this time we've done it with the Left, sometimes with the Christian People's Party and the Left together, sometimes with the Christian People's Party, then the Labour Party has characteristics of compromises and cooperation. We are a minority government – we rule together, four cooperation parties – and finding common solutions with our cooperation parties, where cooperation parties are also getting through, is a quite natural part of the way we want to pursue policies, even in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1456	I thought I would take a summary at the end of the day, but the representative Nybø has signed up. It's okay! I'm not going to go out of time very much, but I just want to say that I'm fully committed to the concerns of the representative Tyvand. I think he had a very good post about the teaching shortage ahead. I think it's a concern we're going to bring with us, and as I hope the Council of State will also take along, because we're losing a whole bunch of teachers when we introduce the new teacher training. We have to wait a year more before we graduate. It also has to be added. Then the council took a point from me regarding what the Workers' Party stressed about making this a rematch. This could have been a rematch that ended at Christmas time, but then we learned that it had nothing to do in the budget debate, which we believe it has, because it has an economic impact on the municipalities. The representative of the Left was concerned that teaching was not conducted by teachers with or without competence. We fully agree with that, it is important. It's also about what we define as ‘competence’, which Benestad's representative was also involved in. As I read this case now, it means that competence is equal to the number of study credits. 20-30 years of experience, if you've been a textbook writer, if you're a student trainer, who can really take the job away when they get out of school, is not a competence. We also have 9 000 non-qualified students in school today who lack pedagogy. It should have been the main priority to further train them. Then I want to say in the end that I have great respect for the Christian People's Party and the SV, who, in comments on the matter last June, agreed with the Center Party, but unfortunately voted incorrectly during the vote. That can happen, but at least that's the way it was. I want to say in the end that we believe that we could achieve exactly the same in relation to the number of teachers who had taken on further education, by maintaining the funding mechanism that I commended the government for initially. We started one, you've expanded and made it better -- I think that's very, very good. And then there's a discussion: Is it the requirement of competence that has so much strengthened that there are so many teachers in line, or is it because they finally get the opportunity to take further training that the employer and the government are with and funding. Actually, I think the last thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1471	Let me start by saying that it is possible to have more thoughts in my head at once. In the left we have long been occupied by the so-called non-qualified in school, and we have actually, together with this council, with this government and the Christian People's Party, granted 100 million. NOK to work with the so-called non-qualified. It's actually 100 million. kr more than the previous government granted to just that. I want to make some comments about what Anne Tingelstad Wøien says. On the one hand, it is said that yes, we are all in favour of competence. On the other hand, competence requirements, that of formal competence, are very much discussed. When you say you're too qualified, but it just has to be phased in naturally, we're talking about it taking ten years. Then the question that we disagree on is: do we actually mean that we should cut down on that time because we believe that the formal competence of the teachers is important for the learning outcomes of the children? Then we have to be willing to take some action, and I think that's what we're doing now. So it's been important to make the ten-year period as smooth as possible. I believe that an experienced teacher has a different kind of competence. They have many qualifications that a newly educated teacher does not have. These are things that a school owner has to weigh up to each other. But I hope it's not like this tomorrow when it's a principal and I'm going to choose between a newly-trained teacher and an experienced teacher without these extra study credits, that we have some principals who think: you know what, I'm choosing him as a newly-trained person, because he's definitely not going to take any further and further education in the next ten years, so I'm saving that money. I don't want that kind of school. I want a school where we think about continuing education all the way. It must be a goal for us to develop further, and for our teachers to do the same. Because it's actually not a static profession, it's a dynamic profession. We have to think like that all the way. Therefore, I believe that if someone chooses a newly-trained or experienced teacher, both should have continued and continued training during a certain period of time. That's the kind of thing that we have to push all the way on our side. In the end, I would like to add some comments to the rhetoric that has been used in this debate, not just here in the Chamber, but generally in this debate. I think it's a big frustration for those teachers out there that the theme is about this. Now I think we've got a system that makes it easier to live with, it's more flexible. But words are used as ‘retroactive force’ by people sitting in Parliament, who really should know what giving a law is retrospectively. This isn't it. It is used as rhetorical poor cooperation from the government. We've actually reached an agreement with the government now. We could have done that with the Workers' Party, but it's actually the government that has said yes to the Left and talked with the Left, so that's who we've got an agreement with, with which I think will stand, and which I think is a good solution for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1484	Firstly, I believe that the representative Nybø, the Left Party and the other parties in this Chamber would have enjoyed listening and taking the arguments from, for example. teachers, who now feel vulnerable following the decision taken last year, seriously, do not devalue it and characterise it from the pulpit of the Storting in the way it was now made. And so: Right-wing hollow rhetoric against the Workers' Party in this case, I don't think it holds. The working party has been in favour of competence requirements and has voted in favour of competence requirements also last year when this matter came up in Stortinget. But we're not used to the fact that a government council doesn't have the order of business, does not manage to inform properly and does not manage to overlook the consequences of a very large, important and far-reaching proposal coming to Stortinget. And it must also be allowed to point out the Council of State's own failing logic here from the pulpit. The Council of State first claims that there is very little difference between the proposal supported by the Right and the Government, and the proposal made by the Labour Party. Then he says in the next breath, in a line exchange, that while one proposal, which Right supports, is good, the other proposal is so radical that it will push skill requirements into uncertainty. There are no teachers who would accept such a lack of logic from their students. Nor should they do so from their own knowledge minister. The Minister of Knowledge is very concerned about the Workers' Party. So this is about all the students and teachers who are going to be in school from 2025, with new skills requirements, but not least about all the students and teachers who will be in school for the next ten years as well. I think the government should listen to them, including the Left Support Party. It's good if it's done now, but there's nothing to suggest that the government is going to listen. What has happened since February 9th, when the Council of State thought that this was quite unproblematic and very clear, and since February 12th, when they tried to send out a circular that did not change anything in the matter? What has happened is that the Council of State has got the majority against it, understood it and participated in a compromise, which we in the Workers' Party otherwise seem to be a good form of work in most cases. But it's a good thing to bring with us in the Storting: To get the Council of State to really listen, the majority has to ask him for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1495	I just need to say that I think it is very good that, after this debate, we end up retaining the skills requirements, clarifying the role of the school owner, and clarifying the possibility of exemption. We're very happy about it on behalf of the students. The main problem with the Norwegian school is that it's too low, the students don't learn what to do, and we have a lot of people who fall off. We know that there is a very close link between competent teachers and students' learning outcomes. Surveys in 2014 show that there are many teachers in primary school who have a low level of competence in the subject in which they teach. The proportion of math teachers between 1 and 4. Steps of less than 30 study scores are 45 pst, and 47 pst. of the math teachers in the upper secondary school have less than 60 study credits. We have to do something about that, and then we have to bear in mind that there will be some changes. To me, it is quite obvious that we have to make some such demands, and I am pleased with Iselin Nybø's clarification that we have to do this at a certain pace – we cannot push this out in time. I think we have a duty to the students to make sure that they meet a teacher with depression in the subject in which he or she teaches. Let me make it clear: what characterizes the Right when the Right sits in government is that we focus on school. We're doing a nine-time job enhancing the quality of school, and this is a natural part of that work. The most important resource in school is professionally qualified teachers. Right in government delivers on it all the time. A great deal of pressure on further training of teachers – and this action, which is now finally getting its point, I hope – will enable us to acquire competence for all teachers in the future within the next 10 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1504	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1518	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1525	First, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for raising a very topical issue for debate in the Stortinget. Then I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation through the examination of the matter. Children and young people growing up today are growing up in a country that is largely characterised by stability and prosperity. Nevertheless, many people find life difficult to master. They are subjected to pressure at school, in the sports team, in the team of friends and at home. Anxiety and anxiety and the feeling of inadequacy are part of the everyday life of many of our children and young people, but it is also important to remember that children and young people mainly thrive and have it well, not least at school. But there is a need for room for conversation about different challenges that young people experience in everyday life, and to raise awareness of how to master such challenges. They face challenges in terms of body pressure, sports performance, school performance — there are a number of things children and young people need to talk about today. The most important task of the school is to give students knowledge of how to survive in life, and here we're not just talking about professional knowledge like math, Norwegian, English, etc., now we're also talking about education and knowledge to master life. In school today, we have body training. We make sure that the students develop physically, and that they learn about how the body works and how we take care of our body and our health. But we're not as good at learning how to train and take care of our psyches. The Christian People's Party has promised in this Document 8 proposal, is a project based on the model of the Cultural School Bag, with a kind of national resource of competence where students will learn to handle life and take care of themselves. In the context of the examination of the case, the Council of State has notified that the Ministry of Knowledge will consider the proposal for lifelong learning in school and whether lifelong learning should be taken into account as a multidisciplinary theme as part of a survey report on school content. So the committee is proposing here to attach the proposal protocol, but we have great expectations of the Council's work on this in the future, because we cannot know everything about the challenges that our students are facing. We can't see that so many young people aren't doing well without thinking about how we're dealing with this. There are several ways to address these issues. The debate on lifelong learning, mental training or what you want to call it does not end with this matter. This debate has begun so far, and now it is up to the Minister of Knowledge to take us a step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1538	Life goes on, and I also want to thank the Christian People's Party, who with this promises an important discussion about the potential that is actually in school as the shared arena to facilitate that children and young people can have a good life. We know that many students are stressed, that they say they don't get to sleep at night, and that they feel that they don't go to sleep. In the state that I come from, Telemark, there has recently been a study that shows that nearly half of all the girls in the last week have worried a lot and felt that everything is a bore. These figures for Telemark are quite the same national. In addition, we know that mental distress is a major health problem among children and young people in Norway today. We also know that mental health problems are an important reason why students drop out of school. The Institute of Public Health has some figures, including: They say that at any time you can expect 15-20 pst. among children and young people between the ages of 3 and 18 have decreased function due to mental distress such as anxiety, depression and behavioural problems. These figures show that the problem is large, wide-spectrumed and the consequences many, from what we can call petty everyday stress to more serious diagnostics that require treatment. The NRC has recently focused on youth and mental health. The program series «I am against me» has made the strongest impression on me. Here we meet eight young people who struggle to master their everyday lives. They talk openly about body pressure, extravagance, loneliness, achievement, intoxication, bullying and uncertainty. Those young people have respect for it. They set the agenda, they open up, and they pave the way for all of us. The Workers' Party believes that we need to make sure that students have more knowledge of their mental health through the school's subjects than we do today. We need to ensure that children and young people are fully trained in their physical and mental health. That was the reason why the Stortinget recently discussed a proposal from the Workers’ Party to strengthen the focus on mental health in the school’s subjects and to implement an offensive initiative on health care. Unfortunately, the three proposals we put forward in the vote on that draft representative did not receive a majority. The most important thing we do for our health is what we do before we get sick. The basis for creating a good life for themselves and others we know to be laid early. More and more research shows that training in different ways related to mental health, body pressure, performance pursuit, thoughts, feelings and behaviour has a good preventive effect. And I think that more transparency, focus and knowledge about these issues in school could create a more open class environment, where each student is given tools to make himself understood, be seen and heard – simply a class environment that prevents bullying. The Ludvigsen Committee believes that there is a need to strengthen what students learn about these things in school. It's about lifelong learning. That is why we support the intention of the Christian People's Party's proposal, but we believe that there is a need to strengthen this thematic for all children, and that it has been raised beyond a project. Until now, the Minister of Knowledge has been a little lukewarm. Previously, when mental health in school has been on the agenda, for example: in the evening post and here in Stortinget, the Minister of Knowledge has said that the school cannot solve all the challenges in society. And then I've said that on a general basis I agree with that, but when we talk about mental health, I disagree, because there I think the school can definitely play an important role. In a short – very short – time, a big message about the school content is expected. There have been signs that the subjects should be slimmed down and that lifelong learning should be introduced as a multidisciplinary theme. I cross my fingers that it means a concrete strengthening of what students are going to learn about these topics in school, and not just vague formulations that it's easy to pick out. What this really is about is increasing learning outcomes, because that's how safe students actually learn more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1559	I look forward to dealing with the upcoming big news about the content of school and our work on how the school can get better at giving mastery feeling to all students, regardless of the starting point of life. It's important for the goal that lifelong learning is something that everyone can experience. It is also exciting to see that the Minister of Knowledge has already announced new multidisciplinary themes in the school where lifelong learning, among other things. will be included. At the same time, I believe it is important to clarify that lifelong learning for our children is part of the school's ongoing work. Within today’s framework, the learning environment and bullying shall be continuously employed as part of the school’s social mandate. This includes, inter alia: the establishment of Chapter 9a of the Training Act, and the quality of life and well-being through participation in a professional and social community provide access and reduce the risk of mental and social problems. Here, measures that respond to different local needs to create a safe, bully-free learning environment are very important. This will contribute to the prevention and health promotion of schools. In addition, students need knowledge, skills and attitudes in order to make informed choices and understand their consequences. Such competence will be developed by students through training in different disciplines, both individually and in conjunction. The teaching and development of pupils in school are largely carried out through the work on the subject of schooling. In several disciplines lifelong learning is already part of the subject's purpose, and several subjects also have competence goals in which students should learn about conditions that are about mastering life, for example. own physical and mental health, source criticism and private economy. A good school-home collaboration has a great, positive effect on a good school environment among students. Research shows that students with e.g. behavioural difficulties require greater involvement than is normally achieved through positive cooperation with the parents. When teachers increase the number and type of invitations to contact with parents, this usually promotes parental involvement and the child’s behavioural difficulties can be reduced. School management also has a major responsibility to promote a school culture that contributes to positive relationships at all levels of school. A positive and supportive school culture will lead both students and parents to experience that they are respected and taken seriously in school. In a good culture of dialogue, teachers will also thrive and feel competent about the different aspects of the role of teachers, which in itself will help to promote good cooperation between home and school. The ‘Learning Environment and Cultural Encounters in School: A Study of Parental Involvement in a Lower Secondary School’ project from 2007 revealed among others: that many teachers experience uncertainty and loneliness in how to act with regard to home and parents. This was explained, among others. that teacher training did not focus on school-home cooperation and that teachers have been given the means to deal with it. It is therefore important that competence in home-school dialogue becomes the responsibility of all schools and that good implementation plans are established in this area. Together, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have in a short time lifted the stakes for health stations. As of 2016, the increase will be 750 million. kr. It means a lot to several hundred additional professionals who can contribute to better health and lifelong learning in schools, and is one of many important measures introduced by the government. So the school already has a responsibility today to provide students with a good basis for future education, work and social participation and to have lifelong learning and to ensure that the students thrive, develop and enjoy it while they are students at school. But we can get better, and that is why I look forward to the forthcoming big message and the forthcoming debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1572	It is a serious and important theme that the Christian People's Party is raising in this matter of lifelong learning in school. I want to start by saying that we have good conditions to find good solutions to this in Norway. Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. We have a great degree of freedom and live in security and predictability, and we also have great trust in each other. The vast majority of children and young people in Norway are well-off and well-off at school. That is precisely why it is important that we pursue a sustainable policy that enables us to maintain trust, freedom and security, and that we show the will to do something about the problems that actually exist and that children and young people experience. Although Norway is, as I said, a good country to live in, there is a need to create a better room for conversations about different challenges that children and young people experience in everyday life. Transparency about mental health, bullying and digital bullying, performance and body pressure, relative challenges, care failure and family problems, violence and abuse or sexuality, gender roles and gender identity are necessary to find ways to live their lives and make students aware of how such challenges can be mastered. There's a lot of attention on this now. We have recently discussed two Document 8 proposals, on mental health in school and a reinforced effort to combat bullying in school. In both of these, there were themes that are closely related to lifelong learning in school. The Progress Party will also point out that the National Council of Norway Children’s and Youth Organisations, commissioned by the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion and the Ministry of Knowledge in the spring of 2016, has launched a process to design a life-skilling scheme for children and young people who can be used in school, and where the target group is initially 11-, 12-, and 13-year-olds. We in the Progress Party also have clear expectations that the forthcoming report on school content will cover both the renewal of the general part and the renewal of the content of the subjects, and that areas related to mental health, the learning environment and lifelong learning will be important areas here. When it comes to mastering, the Progress Party will point to the importance of seeing things in context. In fact, we have between 60 and 100 000 students who say that they have neither sufficient benefits from regular training nor that they feel that something is being done to correct this in the form of individually adapted school interventions. When students do not master school, their ability to deal with problems in other areas of life is also weakened. A successful and offensive early school effort is therefore a prerequisite for student lifelong learning. Here we also have to be clear that we have great expectations that school owners and school managers will be following the students in a good way. The party also shows that, within today's framework, the school will work continuously with the learning environment against bullying, as part of the school's social mandate. These include: provided for in Chapter 9a of the Training Act. Quality of life and well-being through participation in a professional and social community provide access and reduce the risk of mental and social problems. In this context, it is important to address local needs for the creation of safe and bully-free learning environments. The Progress Party agrees with the proposers that youth is a break-up period that many experience as difficult in several areas. The general part of the curriculum is clear that students need to develop knowledge to master their own lives. Many young people today struggle with low self-esteem, perhaps have too high expectations for themselves and believe that they can and must be number one in a number of areas. In addition, many are subjected to body pressure either by themselves or can be influenced by different media. It is important that students learn to master these challenges, and it is also important that young people have ambitions on their own behalf, but it is a very important quality to learn to accept themselves — and others — as one is. It's important to get involved in school and home or wherever we are, so that we become safe with ourselves and accept ourselves as we are. The party looks forward to the government's announcement and expects lifelong learning to be well taken care of in the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1593	I fully agree with the representative Thorsen that this is largely about being able to accept yourself as you are. One of the challenges is that there are too many people who don't think they're good enough. We know that most children and young people are doing well in school. There's a lot that's good, and it's important that we raise up. At the same time, research and statistics show that there are many children and young people who find that everyday life is demanding and difficult to master. The proposal refers to some such statistics, and new figures from the Institute of Public Health and the College of Hedmark report a doubling of the use of antidepressants by teenage girls. The NOVA statistics Young in Oslo 2015 also reported that much more young people are struggling now than just a few years ago. As many as one of three children and young people express the pressure to have the latest, most expensive and finest things. This purchasing pressure is reflected in the fact that payment notes, debt collection and consumption loans are an increasing trend among young people. The Nordics at the beginning of the 20s owe a total of over 1 billion. NOK in debt collection debt. The messages of social media and commercial actors negatively affect young people's self-esteem and contribute to unhealthy and unrealistic body ideals. Among the 16-year-olds, it's 43 pst. by the girls and 16 pst. by the boys who are dissatisfied with their bodies, and who think they are too thick. Already in the 10-year-olds, 20 pst. by the girls that they are too thick. We know bullying is a big problem. For many, harassment, intrusions and social isolation are almost a natural part of school life. This involves a violation of human dignity, and for some it means that a large part of childhood is being destroyed. Today’s generation of young people has been called ‘generational performance’. Studies show that many young people know a pressure to succeed both professionally, socially, physically and economically. Many are left with a sense of inadequacy, some are dissatisfied with life, and some are struggling to master everyday life. The Minister of Knowledge says – and of course he is right – that the school cannot solve all problems. But the school is an important arena in children and young people's lives, and the school is the best tool we have to give young people the ballast they need to be able to master their lives. They don't just need expertise and basic skills in basic subjects. They need knowledge, skills, attitudes and values that enable them to reflect on issues that concern them in their everyday lives and that enable them to master life. If we were to be able to make Norwegian youth world champions in mathematics, it would help very little if they didn't feel that they were able to master their lives and they felt that life is so heavy that they barely manage to get up in the morning. And that is the reality of some young people in Norway today. The school has a broad societal mission, and the school's purpose paragraph is quite clear at that point. In addition, the general part of the curriculum is clear on this and states: ‘The aim of training is to equip children, young people and adults to meet the challenges of life and to master challenges with others. It shall give each student the ability to take care of himself and his life, and at the same time the surplus and the willingness to stand by others." So there's a question about this being reflected well enough in school in the everyday life. I am afraid that the answer to that question is unfortunately no. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed to introduce a project that we have called Life Masters in School – not as a new subject, but as a resource of competence for high school. We have suggested that this be done according to the model of the cultural school bag. We want to attract relevant skills into school and teach students about topics that go directly to the challenges they face in everyday life. We have proposed this as a project to break it off a bit from the ordinary subjects and thus also give the students a breathing space and a break from the performance hunt that many people experience. I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge shares our intention with this proposal, and that he will assess this in the context of the report on school content. I am pleased that an overall committee also points out that the Minister of Knowledge will follow up on this in the context of the communication. I am waiting for this message to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1615	The Committee has had a number of issues about the mental health of students for treatment this six months, and I think it is an expression that strong issues, especially in the media, affect us, and that we politicians too become impatient to help improve an intolerable situation. That's why we're impatient, too, because we're waiting for the government's follow-up to the Djupedal Committee. It has unfortunately gone out in time, but I hope it will not be that long before this also comes into place. Everyone is upset by the fact that so many children and adults struggle with their lives, they feel bad about themselves and do not feel that they are good enough. The question is how can we help to improve the students' marine image and in other ways master their lives better than they do today. For example, the NRK has given us a little insight into what many of today's young people are struggling with. This is a big and difficult issue, which I shall not go into any further. Instead, let me turn to the specific proposal under consideration. The centre party is concerned with the broad understanding of education. We think it's more important in school than just the professional results. The students must become whole people. The classic school debates are mainly about students becoming more professionally stronger. It's a natural focus, all the time we know that too many people leave school without being able to read and write, but it's also a result of an opinion that Norwegian students don't perform well enough compared to other countries. We're drawn to the best country in the world to live in, but we're not the happiest in the world anyway. The centre party is concerned that developments have overly shifted the focus of education policy. Education is so much, much more than professional competence. I have repeatedly pointed out that we, as the authorities, must also go in the sea and dare to be critical of what signals we send out to the students. What do we think is good enough – and not? Is it allowed to think that's good enough? Who is it that defines the standard, and on what basis? As a sort of counter-treating or an answer to trying to reach students who are struggling, the Christian People's Party suggests that we introduce the project Lifestress in school, according to the model of the cultural school bag. The center part understands the intention and shares the desire to give students the knowledge to deal with joy and sorrow, adversity and intercourse in a better way than many people do today, but we are nevertheless a little questioning to do this according to the model of the cultural school bag. The proposal states that one in this project should be able to invite ‘representatives of different professionals into school’, and that these ‘could facilitate reflection and conversation between students, and provide education on topics that are important for children and young people to be able to master their own lives and their own lives’. But this is already part of the school's mandate and mission. Isn't it time to be a bit critical of imposing new happenings on the school? Section 9a of the Training Act, the general part of the curriculum and the objectives of competence are to achieve this. Concreteisation of these themes means that the Centre Party naturally belongs to local curricula and not least to the subjects of physical training and food and health. We also record that the Council of State sees Life Masters as a cross-cutting theme in the future school. It welcomes the Center Party, and we are excited to read about how the Council of State thinks this. We in the Centre Party believe it is more important to make lifelong learning a part of the regular school day, as well as to ensure that health care and pedagogical-psychological services are strengthened, so that, together with other professional skills, they can join a team at each school in order to guide teachers and contribute directly to the student group. We should also ask questions about continuing training for teachers. But it's with these professionals we already have, we should get help and expertise when needed. It is absolutely necessary to remind ourselves that we have created a curriculum that in its time would give increased local maritime rights with local governance. Our eagerness to control and control contributes to the very opposite. Where are the principles? How will it be followed up in future school? The Centre supports the intention of the proposers to strengthen the psychosocial work aimed at both individual and student groups, but is not intended to oblige the school to accept specific external projects, as proposed in the representative proposal. We have more sense of thinking wide, as part of the ordinary school, and not that lifelong learning should be a simple-happy thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1636	I'm sure no one means it, but just to make it clear: we have to be careful so that we don't put similarities between the subject and the performance hunt. What makes me perform is, of course, a lack of mastery in a trade. In other words, lifting students in a subject – whether it's mathematics, art and crafts or Norwegian – is essentially part of creating more mastery and more lifelong learning in the school. Besides this, lifelong learning itself is an important theme in school, and it's not just an isolated theme. It is an overall goal for all training and education if you raise it a little, not just to focus on mental health in concrete terms, but to be able to handle it as a human being in both a democratic society and with others. The school's purpose paragraph states that the school should contribute to the development of knowledge, skills and attitudes that students need in order to master their lives and to participate in work and community in society. This is part of the school's broad social mandate and will form the basis for school activities. That way, all the subjects, and all the hours, will somehow take up what is in the school's purpose paragraph. Then there are several people who have mentioned, and I can confirm it, that on Friday there will be a big message about the content of the school, and lifelong learning will be a central theme in this. In the message, I also follow up on Storting's agreement that the general part of the curriculum should be renewed. The new part shall be based on and elaborated on the value base of the school, given in the purpose paragraph, and its contents shall reflect the broad educational and educational tasks of the school. Work on lifelong learning is therefore not new in school, although the word may be a little new. In several subjects, already today, lifelong learning is part of the subject's purpose. Several disciplines have competence objectives in which students should learn about the issues covered by this topic, such as: physical and mental health and the private economy. Students need knowledge, skills and attitudes to make conscious choices and understand their consequences. Such competence will be acquired by students through training in different disciplines, both individually and in conjunction. Lifelong learning is also about attitudes and values, and I think we need to work on several fronts. We need action plans, for example. the government’s action plan to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people, where one of the measures is school lifelong learning, which is designed to address many challenges for children and young people, such as: body pressure, domestic relationships, bullying, mental health, loneliness, intoxication, sexuality, etc. The action shall contribute to the thematicisation and creation of a room for discussion on such themes. The Minister for Children’s and Gender Equality has asked the National Council of Children’s and Youth Organisations, in cooperation with organisations such as Children’s Protection professionals, Mental Health Youth, the National Association for Children’s Protection, Youth and Leisure, the Student Organisation, to put the action into practice, and they are already well in the process of setting up a scheme that schools can use. The proposers want lifelong learning to be a project based on the model of the cultural school bag, and this is where the majority of the Stortinget is skeptical. I must admit that I am also very uncertain about this. The cultural school bag is a bet that is funded by funds from Norwegian Tipping, about 210 million. kr in 2015, and the offer to students is based on cooperation between schools, art intermediaries and artists. Students are reached through tour activities to experience, become acquainted with and develop understanding of artistic and cultural expressions. So I think that the proposers are more concerned with the intention of the proposal than exactly how it is to be implemented, because what they are concerned about is that lifelong learning should be on the agenda even more strongly in school, and they want the content of training to support this. At the same time, it is very good that the proposers are concerned that they should not impose more detailed management on the school, and I have also said in the past that I am, among other things. For that reason, we're going to have our own subject called lifelong learning. The NOU of the Ludvigsen Committee on Competences in the School of the Future points out, among other things: It is important in the future for students to learn how to take care of their own lives, including their physical and mental health, and to recommend a lifelong learning and public health perspective in the fields where relevant. The last thing I think is crucial from a school perspective. Project and similar multidisciplinary organisation is not an unknown form of work in Norwegian school. It is also a tradition to focus on some topics that are important both for students and for society and that go across trade boundaries. What is, on the other hand, a very important borderline to take is that national authorities go in and define when, how and how much school should work across disciplines. Then we go back to the school that we had in the 1990s, and I don't want to. We must have confidence that the teachers themselves can assess how education should be organised, but we can therefore have ambitions for what topics should be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1662	The Council of State was concerned about this: in a very short time, we are most likely to know what the Minister of Knowledge means that the school subjects should be slimmed down, because then there is an interesting big message about the content of the school. It'll be exciting. At the same time as the subjects are to be slaughtered, they are to be slimned, it is announced that there will be a multidisciplinary focus on lifelong learning. That's what I'm basically saying. My question will then be: does it mean that there will be a restructuring of the objectives and what is already in the curriculum, or does it mean that the Minister of Knowledge agrees that there is a need to strengthen the curriculum of what students should learn about mental health?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1670	Now I have already referred to what is coming on Friday, so I understand that the representative is impatient. I am actually also very impatient to answer, but the details we must probably take when Stortingen gets to deal with this matter. I understand that the representative asks because I say that lifelong learning is a part of the school already today. Does that just mean that we're saying that it's still going to be? No, I think that lifelong learning should be lifted to a clearer and clearer place in school than it has today, including work on mental health. So I think there's one delimitation that is anyway important. It is that in order to make changes to the curricula, which, moreover, both the Ministry and the Grand Duchy should be careful to provide detailed guidance for, this must be discussed by the profession, professionals, on the premises of the subjects. To caricature it a little bit: I don't want a school where you have to take an hour of Norwegian and use it for it to be lifestress, technology or sustainability. This must be integrated on the basis of their own premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1679	Now the state council has announced the big shot coming on Friday, and we are waiting in suspense. It is not that easy to lubricate with enough patience – I may get the answer on Friday, but I ask anyway. Both the school's purpose paragraph and the general part of the curriculum are already quite clear that one of the school's tasks is to enable students to master the challenges of life. It is nice that this should be made clear in a review of the general part of the curriculum, but the challenge is to get this reflected in classrooms. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: What does he think must be done in order for the good intentions of the purpose paragraph and the general part of the curriculum to be reflected in classrooms to a greater extent than they do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1686	First, I want to repeat that mastering at school is something far more than what we are talking about here today. I believe that mastering at school is not least about traditional schooling and how to help students to get the most knowledge of those subjects. So I think that the tool we should use if we wanted to change the classroom is competence enhancement, primarily. We can also do it – we do it partially – by making it visible, for example. themes in the curriculum, but I'm not a member of either the Stortinget or the Department's going to go into detailing the curriculum objectives. I think we're going to put some leads, overall, for what the curriculums are going to look like, and what the themes you generally think are important to be there. But how the curriculum objectives are formulated, and which subjects are best suited to elucidate different themes, I think we have to rely to a great extent on professionals, on the profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1695	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There's one thing that we also know has a big impact on students' well-being and the social environment at school. It's the cooperation between school and home. Engaged parents, who care about the schooling of children and also about what happens at school in general, help create a better learning environment for students. Is this something that the Council of State is concerned about — strengthening school-home cooperation? What concrete proposals does the Council of State see in order to strengthen it more?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1702	Of course I'm concerned about it. With regard to which specific proposals, I have to say that I have no suggestions to strengthen school-homes that are on my desk and that I am soon ready to deliver. It is because I also believe in this area that some of our job is to say clearly and clearly that there should be good contact between school and home, parents have some rights attached to that work. We have set a minimum standard for how much contact there should be, e.g. through feedback to parents. But here too, the more we go in and in-depth, the more instructions the school will get. One of the things that all the parties in this room have been busy about is that we're not going to go into detail and lay too many leaderships for the schools, that is. that perhaps the best answer to that in general is that you have to learn from the schools that are best at it, and take after them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1711	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1719	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1726	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 3 and 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, For the sake of order, the President will state that proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, during the debate. The President-in-Office of the Council, Olemic Thommess, has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1740	I would just like to inform you that the Right-wing Group is voting against proposal No. 1 and 3 and we are voting in favour of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox For proposal No 4 can then be said to be natural for us to think that when this provision is taken up, it is natural to look at a wide range of financial engagements – also in addition to purely corporate interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1747	Mr T. Nesvik has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1750	I would recommend that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats vote against proposal No. 1 and 3 and for proposal No 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1755	Then we're ready to vote. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Board of Governors requests the Presidency to submit proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Storting in order to establish an arrangement in which the interests of the representatives are made public in the opinions of the Committees where this is relevant to the matter and irrespective of the economic value of the interests.’;» [[shares, shares, etc.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1761	The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1773	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider whether similar rules applicable to the recording of the financial interests of members of the government should apply to ministerial councils.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1790	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority requests the Presidency to take the initiative in amending the Rules of Procedure on the register of the duties and financial interests of the EEAS, so that all company interests, irrespective of their value, are entered in that register.’;» Here all the parties have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1825	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of what an ambition for a maximum of 1.5 degree global warming means for Norway during 2016, and what concrete measures the government will take to contribute to this objective, nationally and in each sector, including quota-based sectors.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an updated Norwegian climate target for 2030, which is in line with the 1.5 degree target.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to initiate an increase in the rate of downstep of the EU ETS allowance cap to correspond to an emission path in line with the 1.5 degree target.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1864	There is no voting theme in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1872	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Henrik Asheim on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left proposals No. 2 and 3, by Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 4, by Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5-8, by Anne Tingelstad Wøien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 9, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to change the funding mechanism for continuing education and training, so that the teacher’s share falls during the transitional period for general teachers who need to continue training in order to meet the new skills requirements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1905	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-8, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the dimensioning of the continuing training offer in the Norwegian, mathematical and English disciplines does not go at the expense of continuing training offers in other disciplines.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to supervise the provision of continuing training in order to ensure good quality in the offer.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back with a case on the assessment of the right and the obligation to continue training for teachers.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider introducing study credits for shorter refresher training courses.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1937	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to amend the legislation so that before 1 January 2014, teachers with approved education continue to have full teaching competence.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1954	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that educational institutions have good systems for the recognition of already documented experience/training, in line with established principles for the recognition of real competence.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1971	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the legislation in such a way that teachers who have been trained before 1 January 2014 or have completed ‘old teacher training’ after 1 January 2014 retain the same teaching competence as before until 2025, in order to ensure that there is a real transition period without the separation of their approved teaching competence.’ The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e1988	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that teachers trained before 1 January 2014 are exempted from the competence requirements and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with proposals for necessary legislative changes. It shall continue to be the responsibility of the school owner to ensure that the competence requirements are met. The duration of the derogation shall not exceed 1 August 2025.’;» The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2034	We're only going to vote for IV and V. The Labour Party, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left are behind the position. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party will vote against the vote. The voting boards showed that 89 votes were cast in favour and 8 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15-16.41]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2047	President! Was this right?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2052	According to the setting, that's the correct way we did it. Is it true that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote in favour, so that it becomes unanimous? Mrs Tingelstad Wøien has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2057	When the Committee is set up, the entire Committee is behind all the Roman numerals. It's possible that there's IV that makes us encouraged to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2062	If you look at option page 5, right column, fourth paragraph, it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left, promote the following proposals:’, etc. That's IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2070	Yeah, it's just IV and V, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2075	Yes, and that's what we took up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2078	Yeah, okay, I'm sorry! But can we take this up again?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2083	So let's do the voting again. So it's about the Committee's positions IV and V. I repeat: the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind the position. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2099	It shall be counted against I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-12.ana.ud344e2168	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
