ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e39	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and the Councils of State Vidar Helgesen and Sylvi Listhaug will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e48	The United States has elected its next president, Donald Trump, and the Republican party will now have a majority in Congress. We're going to meet a new political United States. It's of historical significance. The candidate Trump has launched a view of society, politics, the world, relationships between people, minorities and the majority that we have not previously seen expressed by a future American leadership. So now we're going from Trump, candidate, to Trump, President, and we're going to an administration based on this election: Trump administration. Many are experiencing unrest today, including in our country. Why is that so? What's happened in the United States? We have seen a choice driven by a strong protest movement. We see a deeply divided people: frustration related to increasing inequality, identity crises of different kinds in the United States, and as in 2008, we have a choice in the sign change, but with quite the opposite sign and direction from what we saw when Barack Obama was elected. The United States has deep tracks – wounds – to play, and Trump said something about it when he recognized the winner in the morning hours, and he stretched out a hand. So the question is, what are the consequences for the international community, and for Norway? Trump has been quite clear in his view of other rules of the game, another direction in his international policy. Foreign policy should now also take shape. People are to fill their trade, climate, international cooperation, security and NATO positions – US commitments, US direction. It is important for Norway which way this goes. We want a clean relationship with the United States, actively looking for contacts. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What plan has the government made to contact this administration now? And: What does the government think about communicating messages to those who will now take responsibility in the United States from January 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e61	It's right that the representative Gahr Støre stresses that we are now going to deal with a new administration in the United States. It's been a very polarizing election fight with strong contradictions. It was therefore good that the new American president, Donald Trump, in his thank-you speech last night, stressed so strongly that he promised to be president of all Americans. Should Trump be president of all Americans, he is also dependent on having a policy in the future that both gives positive results and is designed to reach everyone. He also stated that we must now come together as a nation. I would also like to commend Hillary Clinton for quickly calling Trump and congratulating the winner and for accepting the election result. The important thing now for Norway is to work deliberately with the new US administration in the future, not least to take care of our and Europe’s interests. One is about our close security cooperation. The United States is our closest ally, and the collective security of Europe is becoming important. It's also like we're totally dependent on the world's largest economy, the United States of America with 25 pst. of the world economy, continues to be an active player in international trade, and that in addition we see a United States that continues, hopefully, to be an active player also in important issues of development and climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e70	Just lately, there's reason to be worried about when Trump has announced that the first thing he'll do within a hundred days is cancel the Paris Agreement. I agree that Norway must now actively work bilaterally towards the United States in order to get links in the new administration where we do not know the gallery so well. We know the Republican Party, which now also has to heal its wounds when they're going to take responsibility. But I also think it is important that Norway now works with other countries. This, in my view, also updates closer Nordic cooperation on foreign and security policy. It also updates Norway's ties to Europe, working with European partners and allies and closer relations when we are now faced with the values we believe to be in relation to the United States, which is a partner for all these countries. I want to hear a little bit more about the foreign minister's view of that. What all countries now do separately in Washington, we really take for granted, but what strategy does he have towards other countries to clarify what expectations we have of the United States, as both an ally and an important partner in international relations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e77	We already initiated in our historical cooperation between the Nordic countries and the United States with the Nordic prime ministers on an important visit to the White House. This is a work that we have carried on. The Nordic Foreign Ministers spent a week a long time discussing how to deal with different outcomes of the US election. The Nordic and Nordic cooperation, which we have initiated vis-à-vis the United States, are becoming essential. It is also essential to see that the United States continues to be a solidarity player in NATO, and Europe will become even more important in the future and cooperate with the EU in this way. When I was in the United States two weeks ago, I also put great emphasis on meeting several of the central actors around Trump, so that we can get in contact with them quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e84	There will be follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e89	There are many people who feel disturbed today. Our most important allies since World War II, not only in terms of security policy, but also in terms of economic and value, are now affected by deep political division. Our cooperation with the Americans has been based on our desire for more international trade, and it has served Norwegian business interests. This is a model that is now under pressure after the presidential election in the United States, but we have also seen it after the UK membership vote, where an increasing number of people on both the right and the left are asking questions about this model that has served Norwegian interests so fundamentally. At the same time, Norway is served by extensive security cooperation, whether within NATO or the UN. We're served by international law. What will the Foreign Minister now do to strengthen cooperation with the countries around us? In this situation, it may be more than ever important that we stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e94	I explained some of it in my answer to Gahr Støre. It is important that we work closely with the other Nordic countries. It is important that we work closely in Europe too. But it's not least that we work closely with the new American administration. I think we have to distinguish between what the candidate Trump has written on Twitter and what actually becomes the policy of the new American administration. That's why I'm also glad that Trump in his thank-you speech made it so clear that he'll make a serious attempt to bring the American people together and build bridges. In order to do that, there is also a need for a different political rhetoric and vocabulary than what has shaped the American election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e99	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions. I guess a lot of people, as the election results started to say in the morning hours, also got a growing interest in the result we've been witnessing. It is also true that in the United States there have been forces both on the left and on the right – to call it that – that have actually rebelled against the established Washington elite. This has also had effects in our own continent. I think Brexit is something of the same thing, and we have an upcoming French presidential election. So my question – and that is an entirely evaluative question, to which I hope the Foreign Minister will answer – is: When he is in contact with his colleagues, does he feel that very many have the feeling that those who rule now feel much less that the people are involved in what is happening and that it is perceived as a distance between those who rule and the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e110	It's a very demanding question, and it's early to start analyzing the driving forces behind the American election. The result came as a surprise – the polls did not show this result. This is very complex. In 2008, when Obama won, they had a unemployment rate of 10 pst. in the United It's now closer to 5 pst. The United States has the fastest economic growth of some of the major economies. But it is enough that many people feel that they have not fully participated in this increased value creation. But then there are also underlying trends that we have seen in Europe — related to immigration, with job security. Nor has the polarized election campaign been particularly helpful in seeing the real perspectives. It has become a very personal election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e118	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e123	Many Americans have felt forgotten. Over the past few weeks, we've been told that over the last 40 years, the steady American man has not had real wages growth at all. Although wealth growth in the United States as a whole has increased dramatically as a society, the steady labour force has not experienced any real wage growth for itself or its family. Then it's not strange it's going to worry. We have also seen the same thing in another European country: the United Kingdom — that the steady man has had no real wage growth, while wealth growth has otherwise been strong. What we fear most in a regime is when the people feel that they are not being listened to, and that they get the kind of remorse that is now happening. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that ever stronger international agreements providing less national scope for action can give the people an even greater sense of abstinence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e130	I think it's very easy in a day like this to interpret the election results in the United States into a context that also fits into one's own political stance. I think that applies to everyone. But I think the representative has a point in that it's important that people feel a closeness to the politicians, to the political system, and that the American election is a reaction; it's an anti-establishment election against Washington, and one candidate was very much seen as a representative of the establishment, and they wanted changes in that way. As far as the IAEA is concerned, it is absolutely essential for us to show that the well-being we have built in Europe and in the United States after World War II is based on international law and trade. If we throw it overboard, the results will also be much worse and harder than we've seen so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e137	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e142	If I were to be honest, we had a lot of good questions yesterday, which seems a little irrelevant today. What we've seen is an ever-decreasing trust, as you said in your response to Battle of Vedum, between people and parties -- especially in the systems at a great distance and with a two-party system, where you don't have channels for the frustration that people feel, and it's not possible to get on with it until the pressure cooker is put on so much that it explodes, as we saw last night. It is a very difficult situation for a small country like Norway — which is dependent on trade, which depends on cooperation with others in order to defend itself, and which depends on strong cooperation relations — when we see that this pressure cooker gets to express more isolation, less trade and less cooperation. I'm actually going back to Gahr Støre's original question: what is the strategy of a small country like Norway to cope with these cancers when they are expressed in countries that are so important to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e151	There are, as I said earlier, many paradoxes in this. If you look at President Obama, he'll score higher on the confidence measurements now than for a long time. In fact, the American people are quite satisfied with the Obama policy that has prevailed and implemented. He took over in a situation where the American economy was very close to collapse, and he's got speed on the economy. It is growing faster than many other places, and unemployment is falling. But then it's that everyone has to feel that they're in, and then there's underflows related to immigration and other issues about international trade. What is essential now is that we stand together with our European allies and our Nordic friends and stand up for the principles that have brought us so much good. Only since 1990 have we doubled global value creation, but at the same time we have almost quadrupled global trade. There's a connection between us dealing more with each other and getting that kind of value creation, and that we've got a halving of the number of people living in extreme poverty. I hope we don't throw that success recipe overboard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e158	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e163	This discussion is not just about what the United States is going to be, but about who we want to be. Therefore, it is important to discuss Norwegian policy in the light of what has now happened, and the second candidate elected President of our greatest ally. I notice that the government's comments this morning, both from the Prime Minister in the press and from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are completely uncritical. I don't think that's taking seriously the turmoil that many people in Norway feel. To the NRK on 15 August, the Foreign Minister said about Trump that he did not believe what he heard – that some of the attitudes did not belong in the 21st century, and a lot of other things that meant a very clear distance from the campaign that has now won. But today's comments make me feel it's appropriate to ask: does the Foreign Minister still stand for that criticism of Trump?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e170	I am absolutely in favour of what I said in that interview. It was in the Political Quarter, where I was asked what I thought about the statements that had fallen, which called into question Article 5 of NATO and the entire WTO agreement. I warned against that, and I warned against it. Then, during the campaign, we have seen a nuance of these positions at Trump and his campaign. There are some of the outcomes to different groups that I've just taken away from, and I'm still taking a distance from. That is why I have underlined today, when the American people have spoken, that it is now absolutely essential for us that Trump also comply with what he himself has said – that he should now try to bring the American people together and that he should be president of all groups. Then I hope that this is also a president who will follow that recipe, and not what we saw in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e175	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e180	I will return to the topic I raised in Question Time with the Minister of Foreign Affairs on 2 March 2016. Then I asked what the Foreign Minister thought Donald Trump could be the next president of the United States. Then it was the granddaughter who finally clubged, and said, ‘Then we're done!’ It created a certain merriment in the hall. I think something of that amusingness is gone. I will admit today that I am both disappointed and surprised. We live at a time when history is written. I was ready to accept the first female president in the United States. Now it's Donald Trump. There are two challenges I want to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The one is: I was in the spring in the United States and followed the election campaign there. There I saw that Donald Trump was a voice for an outreach – those who have lived and seen that the median income for a normal American family has either been at rest or has fallen for the last 16 years. They've lost jobs, and they know each other outside. This is not just a phenomenon we see in the United States. We have seen that globalisation has given us growth opportunities and increased resources, but the distribution is not as fair and as good as we all wanted. And it's not just a phenomenon in the United States. We can also go to Europe. Brexit has been mentioned. If they don't have that much time, they're going to have choices in France, where we see that candidates on the outer right wing are doing very well. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What does he think about exactly what the election result we are now seeing, in view of the fact that we see many of the same trends in many other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e195	I also remember the spontaneous questioning to which the representative Mr Hareide refers. Now it's a reality that Donald Trump is elected the next president of the United States, and it's the government's task that we, together with our Nordic friends, the rest of Europe and the world that stand up for the values and principles that have brought us so much good, work closely against the new American administration, but are also ready for our expectations for it. Of course, it's very tempting to draw the bastant conclusions today about the reason Trump won. It came very surprising – American polling institutes did not hit. Trump is a very complex politician. He has appealed to the groups that Hareide mentioned, but at the same time he has a policy that places great emphasis on this with growth, business opportunities and a competitive American tax system. We might have to assume that after the major financial crisis in 2008, which eventually hit Europe even harder than the United States, there has been quite a lot of unemployment — sometimes very high unemployment among young people as well. I don't think you've been good enough to explain that even though the globalisation of international trade also raises many new issues, the alternative to international trade is what we've tried before, with protectionism and trade barriers, and that leads to even less growth and even fewer jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e202	I agree with the Foreign Minister. I think President Trump can easily be flexible. The negative is the non-lethal that we're now getting easily. We know that the Paris Agreement we can get questions about. Article 5 of NATO and the burden-sharing in NATO have asked us questions. We also know that a more protective line has been one of the leading elements on which President Trump has based his election campaign. I understand that it can easily have our Norway plan A that Hillary Clinton would win, but have the Norwegian government also had a plan B? After all, it has been shown by our individual measurements that Trump was able to win this election.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e209	After the referendum on Brexit and after the referendum on the peace agreement in Colombia, the most likely result in the United States, according to polls, was a Clinton win, but we could not exclude a Trump win either. It's now happening. Our Prime Minister has congratulated Trump, and so has Hillary Clinton. Now we must do our best to safeguard Norway's interests, but also Europe's interests, in cooperation with the new administration. And, as I said, for the past six months I have had extensive contact with representatives in what can become a Trump administration. With regard to the concrete challenges that Mr Hareide is addressing, I think it's going to be quite clear from Trump's point of view all that has to do with NATO solidarity and Article 5. We have to take greater responsibility for our own safety, but we had to do that anyway. I'm more concerned about the climate agreement and the climate policy, I admit that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e216	There will be follow-up questions – first Rigmor Andersen Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e221	Trump's choice means a new course. My question is about climate policy, and it is natural that it is followed up by the climate minister. In a short time, some of us are going to COP 22 in Morocco with expectations after almost 200 countries agreed on the Paris Agreement. Several countries have ratified the agreement, including China and the United States. We now have a president who will draw the ratification, one who does not see the climate problems. Then my question becomes: What are the consequences of the Council of State if, or rather when will this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e228	First, it is important to say that it is in Norway’s interest to combat climate change and to have strong international cooperation to combat climate change. In the Arctic, climate change is happening twice as fast as the global average. We're an Arctic nation, we're very interested in this. So it's important to say that the Paris Agreement has not only been acceded to by the United States, but it has also entered into force with effect for the United States. That means that it will take time if the new president makes serious of his notice of wanting to withdraw the United States from it. What we can expect is that if Trump stands by what he has said, we will see a weakened American leadership in global climate policy. It'll be unfortunate because American leadership has been a very important factor behind the advances we've seen in the last year. We will work hard both with the US authorities and in dialogue with the EU and other international partners for continued progress in global climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e233	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e238	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Hareide has a very important perspective in terms of increasing social differences in the United States. In Norway we have been served with international trade, but at the same time we have had a good welfare state, and we have had strong employee rights, so once we have participated in international competition, there has not been a competition for the lowest possible wages. There's another situation in the United States. I think it's a citizen that we still stand up for international trade agreements, but we need to have more workers' rights, unless there's a competition to offer their wages the lowest possible, and that doesn't serve globalisation. So what will the Foreign Minister do to promote better multilateral cooperation on labour rights in the international economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e247	Since this is still referring to the US presidential election campaign, I would like to stress again, as I did instead, that unemployment has fallen sharply in the United States, economic growth is stronger than many other places, and it is now beginning to see more people taking part in this growth of wealth. That's why Obama's popularity has also increased. In the fight between Clinton and Trump, the American trade union movement has been very clear and an important source of funding also for Hillary Clinton's campaign. So there are also paradoxes in the picture now presented, but I think there are many, especially whites in some industrial suburbs and in industrial areas in the United States, that have been very frustrated by the evolution. As far as international trade is concerned, it is important for us to try through WTO rounds and others to also accept environmental standards and labour standards that we want, but at the same time not at the expense of poor countries that have not reached our level of development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e254	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e259	Norway has always had an open economy, and we're still going to have that. But what we see is that we need a new international policy that takes care of the interests of ordinary people, and that can give optimism and hope for the future to those who do the practical job at a factory or in a shop or in a hotel. Everyone living in the Western world must be able to share in the wealth growth that so many of us have. What we in the Central Party are very concerned about is that the trend of globalisation we have seen in recent years has led to a transfer of power from the National People's Government, from the Storting and from other parliaments to global actors who do not take advantage of distribution. Does Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende see that there have been some negative aspects to the weakening of the National People's Government and to the fact that market forces have increased and that they have contributed to greater disparities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e267	In recent years, we have seen that international trade is under pressure and that more anti-trade measures are coming up. Now international trade is growing less than global growth, and if we're going to do it, for example. To achieve the goal of eradicating all extreme poverty and creating all the jobs needed in the future, we need growth. I believe that international trade – and increasing international trade – is an important component of this. Then it is a fact that since 2001 – since the Doha Round in the World Trade Organisation – we have not established any important trade agreements. When it comes out of the economic crisis that we have been in, and too low economic growth, which we now see, especially in Europe, I believe that new trade agreements that are forward-looking could increase growth, create more jobs and reduce obstacles. It's this growth that has brought us to where we are today, too, based on international trade. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e274	We're going to get back to that. Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e279	There's another aspect of this election that I think might be a bit under-communicated, and that's the gender aspect. That was the first time you had a female candidate who could actually be president of America. But not against the candidate Trump was it possible for the United States to elect a female president. After a time when equality has evolved in a very positive direction all over our globe, we now see that the entire equality field is being challenged all over the world. I think that the events of the night were a great setback for equality policy. You could by getting a lady in the most important and powerful position in the world get a symbol that we lost. My question to the Council of State is: How can Norway act internationally to raise equality, in order to balance against the negative forces that we now see against equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e286	Let me first answer the question more generally and a little bit independently of the American election campaign. It is quite right, as the representative Skei Grande says, that in some international negotiations and forums we now experience when we promote equality, the right of girls to education, this with reproductive health or prevention, that it is opposed, and we now have difficulties in getting the impression of texts and languages that we agreed on at the women's conference in Beijing in the 1990s. The challenge is that some countries say these are Western values. These are not Western values, these are universal values: women's right to participate in professional life, girls' right to education and girls' right to rule over their own bodies. There are very fundamental issues where Norway never compromises in its foreign policy — nor in its human rights policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e291	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e296	I think we have to take seriously that the United States has now elected a president who does not share many of our important values, and who has led a campaign to create enemy images and to reach out some sort of sort of hand to people who have it difficult and struggling. It is true when the Foreign Minister says that unemployment in the United States has fallen, but the reality is that many cannot live on the payroll if they have a full job. The economic differences are increasing, and the economic crises, and the mechanisms that were triggered after these in very many countries, are such that people get the bill for the party they've never been to. When times are economically difficult, people are also asked to point to the 'others' as the enemy: those who have it even worse. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not think that there is therefore a need for a serious review of both national and international policies in order to really reduce economic disparities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e301	I fully agree that, in the future, we must have a more inclusive growth, a growth that also creates more jobs and that takes place within a sustainable framework. This is very challenging, but one prerequisite for getting at all is that it's growth. A prerequisite for growth I believe is increased international trade. When protectionism was tried in the 1930s, global trade fell by 50 pst. and the global value creation by 25 p.p., and you got mass unemployment. It is, of course, a paradox in this presentation that the representative gives, that the American response to the challenges raised by the representative was to elect Donald Trump as President instead of Hillary Clinton. It also shows that it is more complex, and now we get to analyze this result more closely in the weeks to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e308	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e313	My main question is to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. There were few who thought Trump would go victorious out of the presidential election, and there's a lot of uncertainty about what policy would be pursued in the future from the President of the United States. In a letter to many ambassadors before the election, Ivar Engan advises at the Norwegian Embassy in Washington that the territory under trade agreements will separate more indiscriminately from Trump as President. The new president of the United States has claimed in the election campaign that the United States has come out of all the free trade agreements that it has concluded in the last ten years. Globalization has been to the detriment of American industrial workers and only for the benefit of the richest. The main reason for that, according to Trump, is the stupidity, as he says, of the political establishment and not least their poor ability to take care of American interests, None of them wrote in a briefing letter to a long line of ambassadors in ours. The letter made American reactions to the 12th round of the TTIP negotiations. He concluded in the letter that the medicine for Trump goes all the way across the Republican for many decades, namely a liberal economic policy with a focus on free trade and free competition. Then my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs evaluate the statements of the new President and the assessments of them from the Minister for Foreign Affairs' own adviser? And how does he see that, in the future, one can develop a policy that also comes to industrial workers and what one can call ordinary people, for the benefit of, through the international agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e324	This has become a debate on trade policy, and that is interesting. After the world agreed to increase trade with each other according to the great misconceptions that were made in the 1930s when one entered into isolationism and protectionism, we have seen a value creation and a wealth development – based on both the Bretton Woods institutions that were built, and later also a new trade regime – that is historic, that we have never seen before. As I have said, only since 1990 has global value creation doubled. Trade has increased faster than global value creation. Since 1990, however, the proportion of people living in extreme poverty has also gone from 40 p.m. to the global level. to 20 pst., and on top of it, there's been two billion people. More people than it lived on the globe in 1900 have come into existence, and yet global poverty is being reduced so heavily. Here, I believe there is a clear link between the fact that poor countries have also been involved in the larger market and have been competitive, and that we have therefore been able to lift them out of poverty. It is also solidarity, not least predictability and its own security. What is now happening in North Africa, what is happening in sub-Saharan Africa, is also happening in Norway shortly after. And if those countries are not to have access to our markets and compete, they will not be able to grow out of poverty either. Then I think our country has done very well. We have one of the highest gross domestic product in the world per capita. We are now in a demanding transition, but we have also taken care of it. For Norway, an open economy, and we depend on access to other people's markets. We have already opened our markets quite a lot, in most areas. So I hope that we don't go into a protectionist period, but that we can continue this success medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e337	Perhaps the reason Norway has done so well is that we haven't had a two-party system, but we've had a center that's been very busy -- not least the Center Party -- that a good society is a society with small differences and good social, geographical and economic distribution. NUPI has produced a report on the TTIP agreement. He came out last week. It specifies that TTIP can give a win of about 0.37 pst. of the average income of the Norwegian people. But one doesn't say how that gain is to be distributed. The German economist Gabriel Felbermayr from the Centre for the International Economy in Munich said last year that he warned the EU against believing that there were more jobs by TTIP, but that could be economic growth. We can read that as well as increasing inequality. What does the Council of State think about the distribution effects of supranational trade regimes such as TPP, such as NAFTA, as TTIP? Does he believe that the TTIP agreement will improve the quality of ordinary workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e345	I am absolutely sure that without economic growth there will be no more jobs. There will also be no increase in welfare. But then, as I said before, we have to organize economic growth so that it is also more inclusive and creates jobs. It's demanding in a globalized world, but I actually think we've done quite well in our country. I think there is a broad consensus in Norway that we want little differences in our society. We want equal opportunities for people – not necessarily equality of results, there must be consistency between efforts and results – but at the same time we have a safety net. When we convert and people may become unemployed, you know that you can be unemployed for a period of time until you apply for a new type of job. The adaptability that we have in Norway is a adaptability that we can be proud of. But we have also been very active as part of the Norwegian model – if I can talk about it – in order to reach international trade agreements. They have been in favour of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e352	It opens for follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e357	Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership – TTIP – is a major international policy. The problem is that in the name of globalisation, much of the world’s product production is now in Asia, with China as a leading force. This affects the maritime industry in Europe and the United States of America’s ability to provide people with income-intensive work that you can live on. Without stable conditions and security of labour income in the labour market, the basis for social unrest and political upheavals is laid. Europe and the United States must therefore have a better balance between what they produce and what they consume. This applies not least in Norway, where governments have to facilitate profitable investments in new jobs related to the production and processing of renewable natural resources. However, TTIP is not the answer to these challenges, on the contrary. A TTIP agreement weakens the national government in relation to the enormous economic power of large multinational companies. TTIP also violates Norway’s long-term policy, which is to develop international trade agreements through the WTO, where content has to be dynamically adapted to the main challenge, namely to contribute to full employment and where customs rates can be applied dynamically up and down. Does the Council agree with this analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e362	I don't think it comes as a surprise to the representative that I don't share my view of the picture being drawn. I also do not share the pessimism underlying it. We must not cover our eyes and complain that everything looks black. Things actually look much brighter than they did in the economic crisis of 2008. We have regained the growth power of the world economy. But there are many risk factors that we have to deal with, ranging from brexit to the situation in terms of violent extremism. There are many factors that we have to deal with. But I agree with the representative that our preferred forum for trade agreements is the World Trade Organisation. It is a multilateral forum in which all WTO countries participate, and it is not the strongest law that applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e367	Svein Roald Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e372	What we've seen is that globalisation and the international value chains are weaving countries' economies together. This is where trade legislation is important. The WTO is a foundation, free trade agreements are a complement. Globalization is shifting jobs, and what we might see in both the United Kingdom and the United States is that jobs disappear, and that they are not replaced by new ones, as we have done here at home. So the distribution policy is important, but it is primarily a national responsibility. What we can do through trade agreements is to further develop what we've started with the introduction of provisions on employee rights and environmental standards, and these are important elements. Now we have uncertainty as to whether a TTIP agreement will be a part of it. An analysis has been made to show that Norway has many dilemmas about how to deal with such an agreement. Will the government ensure that the size is taken into account in the assessment of the action options based on the analyses made?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e383	It's true, as the representative says, that the future of TTIP is now very uncertain, also as a result of the American presidential election, which has been last night. The idea is that this megaregional trade agreement between Europe and the United States, i.e. the two largest markets in the world, will be more than 40 pst. of the global value creation. The thinking is inspired by the Marshall aid after World War II — that the two major markets, by trading more with each other, can create more jobs and increase well-being. Then I notice that there are many questions about this, but the reality is that it is the international trade agreements, the WTO, free trade agreements and other regional agreements, that have been our recipe, and that have brought us to where we are today. Then we also have to look at the enormous market opportunities it implies, where countries that were previously only poor have become middle-income countries, and we sell a lot to them as well. So I'm a little concerned about – and now I'm not referring to the representative – the trend that you just look dark on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e394	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e399	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Nearly a year ago, we concluded one of the most important international agreements for the future of Earth with the Paris Agreement. In the light of also some nervousness for the outcome of the U.S. election, we have received an unusually fast ratification process. Last Friday we also marked here in Oslo the entry into force of the Paris Agreement. There is no doubt that the reason we have got the Paris agreement has been a strong leadership role from the United States – the United States, which has also taken a leading role in bringing countries such as China and countries like India, and has been a driver of both contract design and regulation, but has also implemented climate action in their own country. Although there is considerable uncertainty about Donald Trump's policy, there is little to suggest that they will continue to play a leading role in climate policy. Although it is complicated to withdraw from an agreement, the situation will be completely different in the years to come in order to implement the Paris Agreement. My question to the Council of State is really becoming a little bit of a reflection on the status of the Paris Agreement now, and are we at risk of other countries, such as China and India, withdrawing and reducing their ambitions in the light of what has happened in the United States in the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e410	It is absolutely right that the US leadership in global climate policy has been crucial. It was crucial in Paris, it has been crucial in the negotiations on emissions reductions from international aviation in ICAO earlier this year, it was crucial in the Kigali meeting on phasing out the hazardous HFC gases, which is an agreement that would make the temperature increase half a degree smaller at the end of the century than it would otherwise have been. In all these processes, the Americans have been driving. The Americans have been driving to speed up ratification. That means that the agreement applies, that means it binds the United States, and that means that any withdrawal from the agreement will take at least four years. Then there's reason to doubt that American leadership in global climate policy will continue, if we're going to take Trump's statements from the election campaign seriously. It will be important for Norway to be made clear through dialogue with the new US administration, and not least for further interaction with the other major international partners. This applies in particular to Norway. EU leadership in climate policy will also be important. I also believe that China and other large emitters have so great challenges and so much awareness of this at home that they will not change course. This is also due to the fact that climate change is not only continuing, but accelerating. We see the effect of them. We also see that international business is orientating and changing. This means that businesses that need export markets see that the green solutions are more and more consistent with the good economic solutions. It also applies to a large extent to American business and technology environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e421	I think it's important to hold on to that optimism, because it's clear that the Paris Agreement is fundamentally dependent on mobilizing from below. It is precisely an agreement where countries are to assume their responsibilities, where local authorities are to assume their responsibilities, and where they are to mobilise businesses and organisations, as well as individuals. If leadership from the United States is reduced – and there is a lot of evidence – others have to go in and take that role in the years to come. This is what the State Council itself will be meeting as early as next week, in COP22 in Marrakech. Then my question is: does the Council of State already see any additional role for Norway in terms of cooperating with other countries in order to maintain optimism in the ratification of the Paris Agreement and the pressure needed not only to implement the agreement that has been concluded but to strengthen it in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e429	Not only is it that I and others with me are going to Marrakech next week, but our negotiating delegation is in place. Negotiations at work are underway, and reports from this morning are that it is a low-level, imaginative willingness to continue the negotiations. Because there is a great deal of legislative work that needs to be done to make the Paris Agreement a reality, and it is very important that we and other countries and the EU do not stop because of signals in an American election campaign. We have to hold on to the fact that the Paris agreement applies. It commits us, and we're going to follow it up. Norway is part of the High Level Coalition, where the United States has played a very important role so far. There we have a division of labour where Norway is not least the leader of the ambition mechanism, which we made a strong contribution to putting in place in Paris. And now, after the rapid ratification, we're going to have a discussion in Marrakech just about how the division of labour between the leading countries is going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e436	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e441	I want to follow up with a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Climate Change will both participate in the COP and make an effort to follow up the decisions taken in Stortinget in this field. In addition to security policy and trade policy, I believe that climate and environmental policy is one of the issues that have been raised after the night's elections. When a presidential candidate expresses that the Paris agreement is a Chinese conspiracy against American industry and jobs, it does not indicate that this is going to be easy. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs relates to the list of priorities that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has when he is going to start working against a new regime in the United States: is the climate and environment also on the high priority list of ambitions that we want to have America on?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e448	In Norwegian foreign policy, as has also been seen in the annual foreign policy statement, climate and environmental policy, an important foreign and development policy priority for the government is. Climate change is also a major safety challenge for the world, ranging from drought to increased migration. These are the security aspects, the poverty aspects that I also believe, among other things. must choose to use as an approach to the new American administration. I appreciate that it may seem as if in Stortinget there is great faith in what matters I should be able to deal with the United States, and influence them in. If we gradually get the same good relationship with the Trump administration on concrete issues that we've had with the sitting administration... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e455	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e460	I would like to follow up with the Minister for Climate and Environment. It's okay to see that climate work, as a result of the US elections, will now be high on the list of what you want to communicate. My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is a little based on what was the main issue and what CICERO today writes: «Trump shock in international climate policy». There is no doubt that, with the opinions underlying such a heading, it is highly relevant. I would like to hear a little more specific about what the government thinks about what measures and positions Norway should now take to ensure that a precisely preventing the effects we can see of the US elections on international climate work. So can the Minister for Climate and Environment elaborate a little and be more specific about what actions or actions the Norwegian Government sees themselves should be implemented now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e469	I think, first of all, that we should be careful to conclude today, a few hours after the election result was clear, with what kind of policy is going to be led by an administration that is not yet in place. That is why we must wait for signals from the United States, and we must engage in dialogue with the administration. But then we have to continue the dialogue with the administration that's still in place. These include: now in Marrakech in very important climate negotiations. There they're going to sit next week when I go there too. For me, it will be a very important priority to get as far as we can in the important work to get the mechanics of the Paris Agreement further in place with the good colleagues we have on the American side of the current administration. They should not enter a waiting mode; they should stand out. It will serve the world, and it will be Norway's line to interact well with them on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e476	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e481	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This questioning process has been in danger of becoming a pleasant passion for everything to remain as it was – but it cannot. I see that the Prime Minister this morning has said that ‘USA is our closest ally’ and that we have ‘common values’. No, we don't have common values with Donald Trump. The person now elected President of the United States has run a campaign based on national seismicism, has flirted with racist and sexist flows and has shown authoritarian attitudes related to fundamental democratic principles and principles of legal certainty. We see a president meeting the international climate challenge with a message that it will burn more coal. It is necessary to have a discussion also about who we want to be in this, and the values on which this campaign is won are not our values. Not only is it not SV’s values – I don’t think it’s the values of most people in this country either. What we're seeing is a United States that's moving away from Norway. Then, of course, the easiest thing to pretend to be nothing and say the kind of thing that the government has said today, that Trump has nuanced himself, that it's probably going to go to, and that everything should be like it's been before. But what do we really do when the values of our closest ally are no longer ours? Well, then we have to have our first big debate in this country for many decades on how close our relationship with the United States should be: should the United States still be allowed to rule our choices, for example. on how we vote on nuclear weapons in the UN? Are we still going to be in the same negotiating group in the international climate negotiations if the United States withdraws from the Paris Agreement? Are we going to adapt to the US field by field, as has been the tradition of Norwegian foreign policy? Does this really have nothing to say for the cooperation between Norway and the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e495	I have seen most of the contributions in Stortinget today as an invitation to the government to work closely against and influence the new Trump administration in the United States. I feel that I have a mandate to do so, and that was also what the Prime Minister did. And like Hillary Clinton, who was the first to call Trump and congratulate, and who took note of the election results, we are now going to work consciously to address important questions with our closest ally: the United States. When it comes to community of values, we have a close community of values with the United States. President Obama is a president who's got the United States out of the economy, creates new jobs, and we have a lot in common. But we also have a lot of experience in dealing with disagreements with the United States. As far as I remember, I guess they also put SV in a red-green government during George W. Bush's presidential period, and they also handled the possible disagreements between the Norwegian government and the US administration. It is important that we now deal with what President Trump will do, and not all that has been said in the election campaign. But I chose to put my foot down during the election campaign – as the representative Lysbakken was involved in his previous question – and say clearly that there were statements from Trump that I responded to. I'm glad I did, but I've also noticed that when it comes to some of these things, you've already nuanced it in the further election campaign. Then we'll see how he will deliver on this matter of being president of all Americans.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e504	I think many share my impression that it is difficult to see that nuance through the way this campaign has been driven, through its sharp attitude towards different minorities, its disregard for climate problems and its frightening attitude towards some fundamental democratic rules. No one wants Norway to engage in dialogue and try to influence it. No one wants Norway not to respect the outcome of this choice. But what some of us want is that Norway should highlight an attitude, because this is also about who we're going to be in a world that's not going to be the same, and that we don't have to trick ourselves into believing will be the same. The French Minister for Foreign Affairs has said today that France does not want a world where egoism triumphs. The German Minister for Defence has said that this was a big shock. From the Norwegian government there are much more cautious signals, and I think many share my wish that the government show a clearer attitude. That's why I want to repeat the question: Does the Foreign Minister think that the community of values is as strong today as it was yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e512	I'm a little surprised at the tone of the representative Lightbaken, because in several of the questions we are now trying to pursue our domestic policy positions and use them in both the analysis and the follow-up in relation to the relationship with the United States. It is a well-known case that under Obama too, SV has been skeptical that Norway has such a close relationship with the United States, and that is also addressed now, in this context. It's a fact that other parties have been sceptical about international trade and new trade agreements, and then it's addressed in this context. There is no doubt about my reaction to individual statements by candidate Donald Trump during the election campaign. I have even said that it is almost so that you don't believe what you hear. It's been a clear reaction. But I now see the Storting up there that you also want to try to do the best out of a demanding situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e519	It opens for follow-up questions - first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e524	It's very special to hear how the Foreign Minister demeans the importance of Trump's attack on the free press and fundamental rule of law, as if there were some single outbreaks on Twitter, and as if there were just some strange personality traits at Trump we're talking about. What we're talking about is what scientists, newspapers, ministers of other countries may call the most important single event globally since the fall of the wall. And then I wonder if we're going to keep pretending that everything is like before. Have the Americans chosen a demagogic, right-wing, scornful and violent president because the majority in the United States actually share his values? Does the Foreign Minister really believe that? Or can it be that not everything about economic liberalisation, which the Foreign Minister is also promoting here as well, has worked as well as the Minister for Foreign Affairs stands here and claims? Does he have a more up-to-date response than to resort to old clichés about SV's critical relationship with the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e529	I have to say, I'm talking about clichés. It's actually something he's very good at. I've tried to relate to the reality that has arisen, and now claims that I'm not dealing with the seriousness, and that I'm deflecting the seriousness, I think I'm actually falling on its own unfairness. Several representatives have brought up with me the wish that we now try to deal with what Trump said in his speech: that now he will pay attention to the fact that the American people must come together as a united people. But that will require something different from Trump than what we saw in the election campaign. Trump did not have a policy like the United Nations in the election campaign; it was a polarizing rhetoric, and I have also responded to individual statements in the election campaign. But now we have to take Trump on the floor, and we have to hope that he will also pursue a policy that unites and does not split and polarize.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e534	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e539	I think it would be completely wrong if, in the light of the statements that Trump has made in the election campaign, we were to be those who are going away from the community that we have had with the Americans, both the security policy and the economic community. It's not time now to say that now we're best on our own, because we're not actually doing that. So I agree with the Foreign Minister that now we have to make the best of the situation. But it is clear that the value-related community we have with the new president of the Americans is far from the same as it has been in the post-war period. We have to take that over. And I think we need to strengthen the cooperation we have with countries with which we stand valuablely close together, strengthen cooperation with Europe, with the Nordic countries. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e546	First, I must say that I agree with the premises laid down here by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It's in line with what I feel is also my task now, to make the best of the situation that has arisen, to take Trump to the word when he says that he will try to do his own thing in terms of uniting the American people. He has a huge task ahead of him, and he also has a great task of building trust internationally – globally and in Europe. There's no doubt about it, and we're going to be active in trying to influence that administration. I will continue to build on the good Nordic cooperation we have. I started among the Nordic Foreign Ministers with a whole sequence of how to deal with a new American administration. We had several battle plans in that meeting that also contained possible eventualities. And we have to work closely towards Europe. As a result, we may also come closer to Europe and the EU, but we will also try to continue close cooperation with the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e553	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e558	The representative Lightbakken is right that this has been a very polarising election fight, and that Trump has behaved in a very negative way both to minorities and to women. On the other hand, the Foreign Minister is right that we have now been through a democratic election in the United States. It has been a democratic election, and we must deal with the President who is elected. In many ways, I think the representative Hareide is right in saying that Trump is, in a sense, a speaker for those who feel the outside world – maybe Bernie Sanders was a bit of a candidate – those who have not experienced increased real wages, those who experience greater differences, and therefore we may now see that for many, many years, all the states of the so-called rust-belt Republican vote. Then I was a little surprised that the Council of State would not at all discuss that side of the issue of globalisation and trade, because TTIP is not a common multilateral trading system. It does not affect poor countries, and it is not Marshall's help at all. Does the Council of State, as he said in a previous answer, mean that it's all about that we haven't been good enough to explain to people what are the benefits of that kind of supranational agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e567	First, I have to take the opportunity to join the first part of the analysis. We just have to assume that the American people – to our great surprise, and not least to the surprise of those who make polls in the United States – have chosen Donald Trump. We have to deal with that. We're going to do the best of that, but that doesn't mean we agree with all the comments he's had during the election campaign – on the contrary. I've explained that in the past. Now I believe that I have actually both commented and had a quite thorough discussion about international trade in this questioning. My starting point is that Norway and I prefer it to happen through the WTO. The World Trade Organisation is a multilateral system where there is no major and strongest law in force — all countries are involved. That's what we deserve most. But because there has not been any progress in the WTO, it has become difficult regional agreements instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e574	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e580	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Everyone can agree that with the election results that we have now received in the United States, there will be less reason for Norway to lean on other nations and greater reason for taking responsibility itself in many policy areas. This, of course, also applies, not least, in climate policy. Then all parties, with the exception of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European This is also reflected in the Government Declaration. Then it's interesting to remember what one of the climate agreement's main architects, Jens Stoltenberg, writes in his new biography. He writes about the adoption of the climate agreement: ‘Then what often happened in Norwegian climate policy happened: we set ambitious targets for emissions cut to be achieved some time in time. As the date approaches and we see that it becomes difficult, we stop talking about this goal, and instead set new goals even further ahead. That's how we have deceived ourselves several times." --Sad, President! In the government's 2017 government budget, there is now nothing about cutting by 2020. Instead, representatives of the government talk a lot about goals in 2030. The question to the Council of State is: Is the government now once again deceiving us and cancelling the commitments in the climate agreement until 2020 in favour of targets set ten years later?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e594	Let me first correct the representative Hansson, who says that in the budget we do not refer to the emissions target for 2020 – we do. The representative may go to Section 2.5 of the Ministry of Climate and Environment’s budget proposal, read in detail and find it. We're strengthening climate reconciliation. We do that with a strong strengthening of the appropriations for Enova. We have extended the electric car benefits beyond what a clearly reluctant Stoltenberg added. We overfill the railway operation in NTP by 4.6 billion. kr. We have put in place planning, predictability and, above all, sustainability requirements in the biofuels policy. All of these things give climate results. Some of them produce climate results before 2020; others will produce climate results in the longer term. It is difficult to quantify clearly what will happen year after year, but that this is important steps and that they strengthen the policy in the climate agreement cannot run away from the representative Hansson either. So it's not so strange that we have a strong focus in 2030. The Paris Agreement is initially about what we're going to do by 2030. We have worked hard to sign up to the Paris Agreement, with our cooperation with the EU, and that cooperation will represent a time gap in Norwegian climate policy, and we are working hard on that. Why do I say time divisions? Yes, because in that case Norway will not only have an quota sector that is actually planning, but also for the non-quota sector, we will have annual emission budgets in Norway for the first time. These are the budgets we have to report on. If we fail to comply with the emission obligations, we can get additional obligations in terms of penalties. So there's a significant rise, which will mean significant demands to cut emissions in Norway, not least... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e605	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e610	I thank you for the answer, and I find that the Council of State uses most of its time to talk about the commitments in 2030. Then I have to remind the Council of State that the climate agreement, which has been adopted twice in Stortinget, is not a requirement to list measures that will have some effect at some point. There's a demand to cut Norwegian emissions down to 47 million tonnes in 2020, from the approximately 53 million tonnes we're cutting now. The Council of State indirectly confirms that this does not mean that the government has any concrete plans to implement it. The question is then: can the Council of State just as well here and now in Stortinget confirm that the government's commitment to meeting the climate agreement is now dead?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e615	As we write in the budget proposal, we keep to the emissions target for 2020, but we also see that it is demanding to achieve. We're doing concrete things that will have results before 2020. The fact that we have extended and reinforced the electric car benefits means that targets for individual car emissions that were to be achieved by 2020 after the climate agreement will be achieved next year. These are faster results than many thought. The strengthening of Enova has given Enova the opportunity to facilitate shore-side electricity in Hordaland, so that the new ferry offers there will cut emissions down to 90 pst. the following years, but hardly before 2020. The most important thing is that we have a safe and good path towards the low-carbon society. It's more important than what cuts we get years in each other. So that's how we didn't get to the deck table. When emissions in Norway increased slightly last year, the main reason for it was an oil expansion adopted under the red-green government, with broad support from this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e620	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e625	I think we should recognise that cheap rhetoric does not bring down greenhouse gas emissions, and now we have heard repetitions over three years, rhetorical and, to the extent, good points about climate action, but climate action does not work. The only thing that now reflects this government's climate policy is that emissions are actually increasing. In order to be very specific in the follow-up to the questions put by the representative Rasmus Hansson regarding the state budget for 2017: Will greenhouse gas emissions rise, or will they decline as a result of the government's proposed treatment in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e630	The likely response to this is that emissions in Norway, as a result of previous projections’ decisions, which are based on the 2014 reality, are unlikely to decrease significantly. The measures in the government budget are suitable for reducing emissions. Let me remind you that when Norway has not had strong emission reductions from 2005, this is due, among other things, to: together with strong economic growth, much stronger economic growth than the EU. It went down during the financial crisis in Norway when we had an economic downturn, but we have had a very strong economic growth, and we have had strong labour migration. Our emissions would probably be 6 pst. lower without labour immigration, but that does not mean that the Centre Party is the EEA opponent which is the largest climate-friendly party in the world. It's important that we look at the actual conditions and causes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e637	Rigmor Andersen Eide – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e642	Last year, on a proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Central Party, the Stortinget decided to establish a climate law. This is believed to be an important law in order to achieve the climate objectives of the different sectors. The law is currently being consulted, and the first reaction from different sides is that the bill is too toothless and too under-obligatory to become the effective tool we want the law to be. My question will then be: will the Council provide a climate law that is concrete enough to oblige Norway to achieve its climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e649	I can confirm that, because we have submitted a climate law that legislates the low-emission target for 2050 and the climate target for 2030. That is what we intend to achieve with the EU. Then it is that many of the most critical voices of the Climate Act have said that they lack a carbon budget as part of the Climate Act. But as part of the 2030 commitment, we will receive an annual emission budget. That means we're going to have a quota sector that's hit with a clear emission path, and then we get annual emission budgets for the non-quota sector. There is no reason then to create additional budgets. Now we are all committed to having a 2030 climate policy design with these annual emissions budgets, which means a whole new level of climate commitments in Norway, a whole new systematics and a much more committed implementation of climate policy at home as well as what we have seen under previous governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e657	We then go to the next – and last – main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e662	The Minister for Climate and Environment can stand still, because I want to follow the path we were in now. It helps climate policy very little to listen to today's government. There are previous decisions, there is stronger labour immigration, and there is stronger economic growth in Norway, which is why greenhouse gas emissions are increasing, says the Council of State. It's a good thing, but it's not something we can figure out when we're going to calculate our commitments or think about our commitments until 2030, as part of the EU framework and in the follow-up to the Paris Agreement. It helps little to cover up behind things that have been, or things that are right now. It is about action in the future. In order to try to see the situation and try to understand what the government is thinking towards 2030, as a follow-up to the Paris Agreement, and as part of our commitment to the EU, it would be interesting to hear the Minister for Climate and Environment concretely elaborate on how the government is now following up the Paris Agreement, and how one will achieve the obligations of the EU's climate framework and the objectives of which we are committed. 2017 will be an important year, which we already have to expect to show concrete results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e669	It's going to be a pleasure for me to repeat and even give some new concrete examples of things we're doing. I think the representative of Aasland is a little bit concerned that it may be difficult to quantify emission reductions from year to year, and that he confuses it with what he thinks: that the measures do not work. A government can roughly do three things to get to the low-carbon society: we can use taxes and taxes, we can use regulations, and we can use incentives, not least, for technology development and research. And we're doing everything. We have proposed increases in fuel taxes, which the red-greens were not in the vicinity of eight years, we have just presented a proposal for a ban on oil firing, and we are highly committed to research and development. When we donate money to Enova, it gives concrete results. Exactly which year, where the effect will be, how big – it's much harder to say. But we know that the Enova bet gives results. We know that we have extended the electric car benefits, and we see that in terms of emissions from the new cars in the car park, when we get the results faster than we thought. When we expand the Folloban, we know that it's going to result in emission reductions, but they're coming after 2020. But there are concrete measures. Our over-fulfillment of the NTP railway operation by 4.6 billion. kr is very concrete, it's very handy. We've got down a maintenance kit that increased by 1 billion. kr under the red-green government – we reduce it. This also makes us see points of light for freight transport on the track. And when we put forward a law on public acquisitions, with much stronger climate and environmental requirements, and we reintroduce the remedies that the red-greens have removed, it will also have climate and environmental impacts – not necessarily measurable in the next few years, but it will help get us to the low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e678	The conclusion of the rhetorical exercise of the Minister for Climate and Environment is that he has no idea of the results of his rhetoric. It's pretty scary. 2030 is not far away, and it is clear that every year now counts. The government has no idea of the emission effects resulting from the 2017 government budget. The critical voices are aimed at ensuring that the measures proposed are far too modest. It's not a clear direction. There are also internal discussions in the government that reach public spaces that the different instruments may not have that effect. Fees are an example of that. So – very concretely: does the Council know what impact the 2017 budget has on greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e685	I'm going to be the first to say that I would like us to have updated figures for the emission projections and for the impact of some climate measures, among others. because the emission projections we present in the 2017 budget are based on figures, on the policies, technology, status and knowledge that we had in spring 2014. That means to a large extent the red-green climate policy, and we and the cooperation parties have, as I said, strengthened it vigorously. We have made changes in many areas. I've mentioned them, and it's going to give results. However, producing emission projections and quantifying the effects of some measures is complicated work, it is influenced by many factors, and there are calculation exercises that are carried out at regular intervals and involve many actors. We come in the 2017 Perspective Communication with updated emission projections.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e690	The oral question procedure is thus amended, and we go to case No. 2, which is regular Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e704	There will be a wide range of changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this respect. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. At the request of the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, the question is moved and answered before question 22, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 2, from the representative Martin Henriksen to the Prime Minister, is postponed until the next Question Time. Question 3, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Question 5, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left. Questions 6, 8 and 9 from the representatives of Kjell-Idar Juvik, Åsmund Aukrust and Liv Signe Navarsete, respectively, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Minister for Transport has left. Question 7, from the representative Stein Erik Lauvås to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left. Question 10, from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal to the Minister of Industry, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge who directs the person. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, the question is moved and answered before question 17, which is answered by the same Council of State. Questions 13 and 14 from the representatives of Kåre Simensen and Tove Karoline Knutsen, respectively, of the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Integration on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security, who has been removed. Question 15, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Oil and Energy, was moved and answered before question 4. Question 29, by Mr Karianne O. Heavy to the Minister of Culture, answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Culture, who has gone away. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, the question is moved and answered in response to question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e734	Question 1 shall be dealt with after these changes before question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e748	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e756	This question, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e761	I note that the Prime Minister does not see it as his task to answer whether the government intends to comply with the climate agreement or not, and must then ask the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘The climate agreement basically means that Norwegian emissions need to decrease to 46,7 million tonnes in 2020. The Government was chosen to ‘strengthen the climate agreement’ and the 2016 budget agreement states that the 2017 budget shall ‘strengthen the climate agreement’. However, the 2017 budget proposal has no reference to the CO 2 cut target by 2020.’ This is technically little wrong, but it is completely correct in content. ‘Can the Prime Minister confirm that the government’s policy will not reduce Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions as required by the climate agreement, and thus not strengthen, but weaken the climate agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e779	I have a certain sense of having been here before. The question has a considerable similarity to the question that was asked under the spontaneous part of the questionnaire. The government is working to achieve the climate goals. The climate objectives of the climate agreement are set. Together with the cooperation parties, we have significantly strengthened climate reconciliation in a number of areas. We do so in the field of climate and environmental technologies through Enova and Innovation Norway and with a historically strong commitment to rail, pedestrian and cycle routes. It's a policy that everyone will understand it takes time before it becomes apparent in reduced emissions, but we know that it works. Then we've also extended the electric car policy. We see it as contributing to a shift both in technology and in how we think about mobility, which is very interesting, and which will have a strong climate effect. It is not correct that the budget does not have a reference to the 2020 emission target. As mentioned earlier, it is stated in Section 2.5 of the Ministry’s budget proposal. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is an important step on the road to 2030 and 2050. However, we also know that it often takes time before action and instruments are effective. This applies not least to technology development, which, through bets today, can have a significant impact in a few years, but not necessarily a significant impact next year. The large-scale notification that forms the basis for the climate agreement also mentioned both national and international developments that provide a framework for Norwegian emissions. It was noted that less progress in the development of climate-friendly technologies, higher costs of domestic climate action, higher immigration and economic growth and greater oil sector emissions will have an impact on the achievement of climate objectives. At the same time, it was made clear that these conditions do not alter the need to reduce national emissions. We also know that climate policy in Norway has had a great impact. When we reported to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, we assumed that emissions in 2020 would be 17-20 million tonnes higher than what we now expect if we had not had today's climate policy and instruments. The projections with which we operate, as mentioned earlier, have been drawn up in 2014. They are not up-to-date with the new instruments put into use after 2014, nor do they take account of the changes in the oil price. This means that a good deal of policy effects have not been included in the projections. It is also the case that some effects of policies are difficult to quantify and poorly covered by projections. This applies, inter alia, to: technology shifts that are being helped through our campaign on Enova and Innovation Norway. We see the same thing in unforeseeableness – probably very positive – as to what effect the electrification of the car park will have, and we have made it clear that the next step must be to find solutions for heavy transport, because in the passenger car market things are about to resolve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e794	I think the Council of State understands very well that the reason why this question is still being asked is that the government has committed itself to a numerical CO 2 emission in Norway in 2020, but refuses to provide figures that show that it is actually going to cut these emissions so much. In practice, the Council of State responds over and over again: No, we are not going to comply with the climate agreement. So it's like that in this budget, as in all other budgets, there's a lot of things that are numerically fixed. Everything that the government seems to be important is numerically fixed, and the obligations to carry out things in health, transport, etc. is numerically fixed and very clear. What is the reason why exactly the climate policy in the government's budget is number-less?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e806	It is not that climate policy is number-less on the impact side. In some areas it is possible to quantify or predict the emission effects of different measures, but in other areas it is clearly more difficult. When the Green Party put forward a proposal that according to the Enova model, a Bionova should be established, in its alternative budget last year – if I don't remember wrong – I don't know if the Environment Party was able to quantify what the climate impact of it would be, but I guess you have a strong opinion that it would contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That's the same thing with a lot of the measures we put in on public incentives. And then we can be clearer and know more about what the climate impact of some tax increases and for example. of our biofuel bet will be. It is easier to quantify, but we need to be honest enough that some measures are not as easy to quantify from year to year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e815	It becomes more difficult and difficult to understand why the government spends time making commitments that are numerically fixed both this year and in terms of emissions, when the government's position at the same time is that it is completely impossible, and also not very interesting, to provide evidence that it has actually intended to implement the commitments it has undertaken. And then it's like this is characteristic not just for this government. The working party, as part of the red-green government, led about the same policy, and the real effect of this is that climate policy is becoming an increasingly foggy and increasingly less credible affair for the Norwegian people. Does the Council of State fear that this round of promises that do not feel as though they were enough to be respected leads to political disdain?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e824	I believe that these are aspects of how the climate debate in Norway has been conducted in the last decade, which can invite politicians to skepticism, at least. I think that's the trend that if you see that you're not reaching a goal, you're increasing ambitions instead of taking a realistic discussion about what's going to happen to achieve them. I also believe that the quota buy-in rhetoric from the previous government was a challenge in this way. So we have put on the table a new arrangement for the 2030 targets that involves annual emission budgets. I believe that the representative Hansson has no objection. There will be significant emission reduction requirements in Norway, although there will also be access to pay for emission reductions in Europe. This is not least why we have ordered a climate strategy for the national transport plan, because it is in the transport sector that many of the cuts have to be taken. But the framework around the 2030 targets is going to be a completely different and more binding than what we have seen in Norwegian climate policy before, and that should be welcomed by the representative Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e831	So we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e839	‘A number of LO Associations have recently decided that they do not support an impact assessment of oil activities for Lofoten, Vesteralen and Senja, a process which, according to the Petroleum Act, has taken the first step towards opening up a sea area for oil drilling. The oil and energy minister says that the four federations speak out against better knowledge, and that adult training needs to be done. How should the government conduct adult training to get LO to go for oil drilling in Lofoten, and should the training include government support lots?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e846	Let me start by saying that the premise for the question from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is wrong in two areas. One premise is that all areas that are subject to impact assessment end up being opened. The second is that the opinion on adult education was connected to the Lofoten and the West Pole. It wasn't. I believe that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is familiar with this. Let me say that the government parties have a cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, among others. on oil activity in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Western Seabed and the Senja. That cooperation agreement is, of course, a firm one. Having said that, I would like to remind you that during the Stoltenberg II administration, with which I know that Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is well known, it was, at the request of a broad majority in Stortinget, carried out a comprehensive knowledge collection on the ring-effects of petroleum activities in those sea areas, and on the impact on employment, activity, resource base, etc. Much of that information, like all other information collected in preparation for oil and gas activity, assessments of oil and gas activity in Norway, is publicly known and contains a lot of facts and knowledge. So we know a lot already. This knowledge makes me believe that it is possible to carry out proper petroleum activity even in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the West Sea and the Senja, which we have shown are possible in the sea areas outside Finnmark, in the Norwegian Sea and in the North Sea. I have fully accepted the debate in LO on the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja, but what I have reacted to is that some tone-setting federal leaders in LO have argued, like SV here in Stortinget, that we urgently need to implement a so-called controlled closure of Norway's largest and most important industry, and that the instruments that have been pointed out, namely not to allocate new areas, are not being deleted, will lead to any controlled liquidation, but against an uncontrolled closure of Norway's largest and most important industry. As Minister of Oil and Energy, it is my duty to say that this is bad industrial policy, bad economic policy, but also bad climate policy. The revenues from oil and gas production have been represented above 25 pst for the 10-15 years that lie behind us. of the income of the country and they have supplied approximately. 2 pst. of the world's demand for oil and gas, which is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e855	The government's own figures show that the conversion is already in progress. It's a brake in the oil industry. It now constitutes 14 pst. of gross domestic product — a decrease from previous years. But I think it's interesting that the Council of State is concerned with the facts, because that's what he's busy generating. Then I would like to stress that the facts are on the table in many types of matters, including: for the allocation of exploration sites through the 23rd concession round. At that time, the government totally overstepped all environmental and fisheries warnings from the government's own trade directorates against oil drilling in vulnerable sea areas. In fact, this kind of overrun of environmental warnings we've never seen before. That's why I wonder what kind of adult education oil and energy ministers have taken to accept such professionally thoughtful warnings?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e862	We celebrate the 50th anniversary of the oil and gas activity on the Norwegian base. Over these 50 years, we have shown that it is fully possible to carry out a significant economic activity on Norwegian soil by producing oil and gas, while fishing has flourished over the same 50 years. I myself was born and raised in a fishing storm, at home in the West Sea, and there are now more fish landings than ever, based on Arctic cod from a sea area where there has been oil and gas activity for more than 30 years. We have over time shown that it is possible to reconcile the interests of other industries and biodiversity, and we are implementing this activity with the toughest climate framework any industry anywhere in the world is operating within.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e867	I think it's great that the Council of State is talking about landing fish in the West Sea, which is one of the places where there is no extraction of oil, and where – if I get what I want, and the Council of State does not get what he wants – it's still going to be free of oil drilling. But the Council of State did not respond to what kind of adult education he had taken to go against the obvious professional warnings of his own directorates in the field, and therefore I just want to ask an open question, as a friendly invitation at the bottom of this questioning. Can the Council of State mention one area, only one area, where he believes that, in the interests of nature and the environment, petroleum activities should not be carried out on a Norwegian base?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e874	When the representative Eidsvoll Holmås claims that the vessel is oil-free, it is certainly the fact that the vessel is not oil-free, which means that we are at all standing on this pulpit. It is precisely that there are hydrocarbon resources present in that region, which make this debate as it is. I appreciate the attempt at adult training on fish and fish migrations in the Barents Sea and southwards towards the West Sea, but it is therefore the fact that the fish landed in the West Sea has been born and raised in the Barents Sea, where we have been engaged in petroleum activity for many decades. In any government assessment, a lot of input is received. One of the advantages of Norwegian oil management is that we have a lot of transparency about these processes, not only from our own professional authorities, but also from non-governmental organisations, from local and regional authorities. But at the end of the day, it's the government's responsibility to balance the advice we get. The government has done that, even in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e881	Then we go to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e889	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘In the introduction of financial taxes, the government has chosen to increase the employer’s contribution to the financial industries. By linking the financial tax to wages, the framework will be labour-intensive banks which rate on the dissemination of banking and financial competences in the districts. For the Savingbank Nord-Norway this represents a cost of approx. Forty million. krones. What assessments and calculations did the government base when it came to introducing a model with an increased employer’s fee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e898	In the context of the treatment of the tax notification, Stortinget decided to introduce a financial tax from 2017. The decision states: «This is a tax on added value in financial services and is seen in the light of the fact that the sector is exempt from VAT.» In the government's assessment, we have had as a starting point that the financial tax should replace, as far as possible, the lack of value added tax in the sector, the added value consists of both wages and profits. The Government therefore proposes that the financial tax should be applied to both these tax bases. In this way, we follow up the decision of the Storting that the financial tax should be «a tax on added value in financial services». Labour represents a significant part of the value creation of the economy. This also applies in the financial sector. If the government hadn't proposed a financial tax where parts of the tax were put on wages, we would move away from taxing added value in the industry. In that case, we would not have followed up the Storting decision. The exemption for value added tax on financial services makes it economically profitable for financial undertakings to perform several services under their own control, as they then do not pay VAT. This is an opportunity for adaptation which, in particular, the larger financial undertakings can benefit from. The introduction of financial taxes would partially counteract these adjustments and the internal distortion of competition in industry. Then I would like to remind you that a financial tax that is also applied to wages will not be a strange measure. Both Denmark and Iceland currently have such a tax on the financial industry at a higher level than proposed for Norway, and on 7 November a Swedish expert committee recommended the introduction of a tax on salaries in the financial industry there at 15 p.m. The representative Berg-Hansen pulls forward SaveBank 1 North Norway. The Bank’s profits in the last few years — around 1 billion. kr annually – points to both efficient and profitable operations, and SpareBank 1 Nord-Norway appears to be solid, like the rest of the Norwegian financial sector. I am sure that the financial corporations will be able to pay this tax, and continue to provide good services to Norwegian consumers and to the business community. I would also like to point out that the government has provided considerable general tax relief that has benefited the entire business. The surplus in the financial industry was taxed at 28 p.m. in 2013, while revenue will be taxed at 25 p.m. in 2017. including financial taxes on profits. It corresponds to a relief for the financial industry of about 1.5 billion. kr annually. Consequently, the total tax burden on industry will not be significantly higher than in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e920	I agree with the Council of State, I am sure that the industry is able to pay this tax. What I'm more insecure about is whether it hits to take out this surplus value. For what you do by adding it as a tax on wages or employers' taxes, as we otherwise call it, is favoring foreign banks, banks as outsources, and banks with little presence, but which can nevertheless indicate large profits. How, then, will the Minister of Finance be able to hit these banks, just not to influence the internal competition, of which she is concerned? In a capital-poor part of the country like North Norway, we are very happy that we have a strong and solid bank, because that's actually all we have. We don't have any rich uncles, and to say it like this: it's not in the north the main gravity of the relief in the property tax ends up. Does the Council see that it would be better to set up the financial tax so that it would give more equal treatment to banks, regardless of the way in which they organise and outsource themselves? There is a type of tax that is otherwise quite widespread... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e927	Let me first say that I am very concerned that the Norwegian financial industry should have good, competitive framework conditions, and that we should cover the framework conditions that are also developed in other markets in which they compete. Now it is the case that the Nordic countries have relatively similar rules for this, and they are largely harmonised. There are some exceptions, such as: in the case of branching, host country regulation, etc., for which contracts are to be set up. I would like to remind you that there are essentially Nordic banks that are the so-called foreign banks of significant size operating in Norway. So they come from countries that have higher financial taxes than what we are now proposing to introduce into Norway. Having said that, I fully agree with the representative of Berg-Hansen that the value of our local savings banks around the country is invaluable, and it is a banking market that we have to take care of and fend for in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e934	That's why it's so incomprehensible that you have chosen this model, when you're concerned about it. I am raising a question from the Christian People's Party's fraction in the Financial Committee, a budgetary question that really goes on exactly the same, but where there are questions about putting the tax on profits, which is the normal tax type in Norway. That's where the Minister of Finance answers that you almost don't have time to do such an investigation. So it was in the tax settlement and, as the Minister of Finance pointed out, in the tax notice that this was taken up. It's starting to be a while ago. At the same time, the Tax Act is now to lay down 54 tax offices. After all, you could have used a little of that workforce to solve the question that the Christian People's Party's financial fraction says you haven't had a time frame available for, it's practical challenges, you don't have a specific number for the group. If you do not have an overview of who operates the finance industry in Norway, how can you match the model chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e941	I think that was a very inexpressive question, and I would like to remind the representative Berg-Hansen that her party, along with a unanimous growth, asked the government to come back and introduce a financial tax with effect from next year. We have done that, in line with the leaders of the Stortinget, for the treatment of the tax return. So the added value the financial industry has benefited from, where they have not been subject to VAT, amounts to 9 billion. kr. The financial tax that the government is now proposing could be 2.25 billion. kr incurred in increased tax revenue. It means a significantly lower level than the VAT from which the financial industry has been exempted. If we had chosen another model – there have been several models, so far, in the hearing after this proposal was presented – we would have EEA legal issues on the table, which in that case means that we cannot introduce the scheme with effect from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e953	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Transport, is answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e958	I have asked the Minister for Transport the following questions, which are then to be answered by the Minister for Health and Health: ‘The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg adopted on 3 May a bill for municipalities to introduce low-emission zones, and the Ministry sent a regulation to consult it on 22 August. There was § 3 about car types covered, and § 19 about being able to combine low-emission zones and environmental-differentiated charges in contravention of Storting’s suspension. It's urgent for the municipalities to get the regulation in place. On written questions, the Council of State replied on 5 September that he would have more time to review the statements before he concluded. Have they been reviewed by the Council of State and when will the clarification be made?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e967	The government believes it is very important to ensure good air quality in our cities. That is why we are highly committed to rail and public transport, environmentally friendly fuels and new technological solutions. It's about giving people an alternative to the car without reducing people's mobility or unduly punishing those who don't have a real choice for the car. The Storting adopted a proposal on the law on low-emission zones before the summer. This follows the government up. A proposal for a central regulation is under preparation by the government and will form the framework for the introduction of low-emission municipal zones. This has taken some time, which the Minister of Transport has previously been ready for Stortinget. These include: the desire and the need to obtain input from potentially affected cities in this process, as there have been different wishes and needs from city to city. It is interesting that the representative of the Workers' Party reminds us of a clarification in this matter, bearing in mind that his own government scrambled a similar solution in October 2012, based on the existence of other, good and better tools. The availability of other, good tools to reduce local air pollution is correct: improving and increasing road cleaning, tipping, speed reduction, cow pricing, the low-carbon ban zone and driving dates are some examples. Municipalities can build safe walking and cycling routes and county municipalities can improve the provision of collective transport services. This is where the state sets up more than ever and takes 50 pst. of the investment costs of certain major collective projects in the four largest cities. We have quadrupled the allocation to Oslo through the reward scheme for public transport and contributed to a strong growth in the railway operation. The consultation of the proposal for a regulation ended on 22 August this year, and there were more than 30 recordings. The task of completing the Central Regulation is a high priority task of the Ministry of Transport, so that municipalities can access this instrument as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e980	I thank you for your answer. This is a matter that is particularly relevant to the Minister of Health, so it is very relevant that the Minister of Health responds. On Monday 5 September, the NRK reported that 185 inhabitants only die prematurely every year in Oslo because of local air pollution. The objective has been less harmful air and to comply with the requirements of the ESA Court of Justice in its judgment against Norway regarding the exceedance of air pollution limits. In the unanimous position of the Storting before the unanimous decision on low-emission zones on 3 May, it is stated that low-emission zones may be: ‘an important addition to the possibility of environmentally differentiated toll tariffs’. It also states in this unanimous setting that: ‘The legislation will apply to Norwegian and non-resident vehicles powered by an engine, including a passenger car’, etc. Doesn't the Council see that it's going to be very wrong if the central regulation is put up so that where it's needed most, in the cities, is excluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e999	I do not know if I fully understood the question from the representative. I understand that the Ministry of Transport is giving priority to working well with this central rule, and that it is a high priority task. It is also an instrument that requires proper treatment. The hearing of the regulation ended on 22 August, and there were over 30 recordings. But the Ministry of Transport works on the basis of giving municipalities access to this tool as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1004	I believe the Council of State really perceives that the issue is that the Stortinget has made a legislative decision, and that is an extraordinary procedure because nothing has happened since the Stortinget on 17 March 2015, the Council of State commissioned to draw up and submit a legislative proposal, which was also, of course, a legislative wording and a regulation that had previously been at the hearing. Then Stortinget intervened and made this decision on 3 May, and had details in the setting, among other things. combining low-emission zones and environmentally-differentiated charges and the types of cars to be covered. When the Ministry refers to the opposite of these two central points of the central regulation which is being consulted, this is an exceptional matter. It is not only a normal regulatory process when the Storting has so clearly expressed how this should be designed and in a unanimous setting. So I repeat the question: doesn't the Council of State see that this is an extraordinary process, which is urgent, and that you should have this tool in place now before winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1011	I perceive that there is a matter that is urgent, and that the Ministry of Transport is working under pressure on this matter. But it is the government that is responsible for regulatory work, and the Council of State is responsible for the proper conduct of regulatory work, and there are also opportunities for those who are affected to make views and observations. There are also a number of issues related to both the issue of environmentally differentiated tolls and adaptation to the AutoPASS system and other issues that one cannot just ignore, but which one actually has to take into account when implementing such a regulation. The consultation has therefore been needed, and work on this is a matter of high priority for the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1027	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1035	This question, from the representative Stein Erik Lauvås to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1040	‘The Government, with its unpredictable charging policy, has achieved the reduction of 1000 profitable private jobs in Eastfold by the closure of Rygge civil airport due to a charge introduced overnight without impact studies and without discussion with industry. We also see the consequences in the rest of the country where jobs disappear as a result of this charge. How does the Council of State defend such a charging policy and that the employer and the employee organisations were not consulted in advance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1047	The Government is committed to facilitating a competitive and environmentally friendly aviation industry. Prognosis indicates that the growth in the number of flights will continue. I would like to remind you that the level of charges for the aviation industry, including the air passenger charge, is about on average in Europe. After the air passenger fee was adopted in Stortinget before Christmas last year, legislative proposals were sent to the hearing. A large number of instances were given the opportunity to comment. The representative of Lauvås gives the impression that the aviation industry is now collapsing as a result of the charge. Avinor, on the other hand, points out that Norwegian airlines increased the number of seats offered domestically by 2 pst this winter. in relation to the previous winter programme. We also experience that the number of air passengers is increasing this fall. In that process, airlines will adapt their offer by establishing new routes, setting up routes, increasing frequency on some routes and reducing frequency on others. We see that all over the country. But in sum, it's going to be a better offer. When the airline Ryanair laid down its base on Rygge now in October, the new fee was blamed. However, despite the charge, the same company established routes both on Torp and on Gardermoen, where the same charge applies. The government has clearly said that we are positive for further commercial operations on Rygge, and the Ministry of Transport is prepared to continue the concession to new owners. The defence sector has been authorised to conclude an option agreement with Rygge Airport AS, with a view to further commercial operation. I have noticed that airlines like Norwegian will in no way exclude flights from Rygge. I therefore hope that today's owners, where Østfold County Council is in, contribute to a good process with any investors who see a potential for further airport operations where today's owners have chosen to shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1060	Just to say it first, we also hope that it can solve itself with regard to new operations on Rygge. It would have been unnecessary to shut it down. The Prime Minister has stood in Stortinget and said that business-friendly policy is important – she emphasised it quite strongly. Then we see that during the last couple–three years we have received a plastic bag tax that came overnight. None of the social partners were heard in advance about that charge — and no one else, either. It was never properly introduced. We have a challenge of not creating enough jobs in the private sector in the near future. There is a growing unemployment rate, and an airline seat charge is now being introduced, which is intended to drain Norway for 4,000 to 5,000 jobs across the country in the private sector. I then ask the Council of State: how does the Council of State from the Right get this to be industry-friendly, predictable policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1069	This government has helped to reduce taxes by over 18 billion. kr. I am very pleased that the representative of the Workers' Party now so clearly acknowledges that taxes and taxes are an important industrial policy instrument. However, the reasoning of the representative in the case of airport charges seems totally absent from the work of the Workers' Party on its alternative policy, where the Labour Party's policy would lead to tax incentives for those who create jobs in Norway, at a completely different and significantly higher level than the aerodrome fee would entail. I believe that the representative has to go back and read again the Workers' Party's alternative budget – and think about the consequences it would have for business and jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1076	It is proved by the Ministry of Finance itself that the tax administrations, among others. in taxes on wealth, it is not medicine to create more jobs. Then there are other medications that need to be done. Then I record that the Council of State strongly defends this way of operating charging policies – a late night – that are unpredictable. It is to be noted that the right has clearly been flattened for government partners The party's requirement to impose such a charge on the table, without realizing the consequences. In that case, there is a new way of the business segment Right to pursue industrial policy. Can the Council of State assure us that we and industry will not experience that kind of tax over the table without prior consultation when the budgets are to be settled in the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1083	Firstly, the representative's history is not in the vicinity of reality. Secondly, it is the Storting that determines the level of taxes and taxes in this country – it would be very special if a government or a government council had said that the Storing should not be allowed to do so. It is according to the Constitutional Act Stortinget that does it. It is also true that although the Storting decided to introduce a new fee in this context, it was not introduced ‘overnight’, as the representative tries to present it as. On the contrary, it was introduced at a later date than the Grand total had actually foreseen, precisely to ensure good involvement, good process and consultation prior to the imposition of the fee. If the representative believes that increased fees are negative for the aviation industry, it must also be negative for other industries. The representative must then take into account that the Workers' Party's alternative means significantly higher tax burden on the entire industry in Norway, as opposed to this single charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1111	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Transport has left. Question 10 has been moved and will be answered before question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1121	‘Unfortunately, it is well known that the user-controlled personal assistance system, BPA, does not function well enough in many places. This is well documented, including: by the FFO. Unfortunately, the offer in many of the municipalities is characterised by weak BPA competence, different practice/follow-up of national leadership and many unwarranted refusals. How can the Council of State, in cooperation with the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, ensure that the BPA system is implemented in line with national leadership, and how can it be followed up with sufficient supervision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1128	One of the first things I did as a minister of health and care was to introduce a right to user-driven personal assistance – this in order to give people with disabilities greater freedom of choice and to facilitate the provision of services that correspond to individual needs. The rights attaching of user-driven personal assistance is part of the government’s strategy to create the patient’s and user’s healthcare. Upon the introduction of the right in 2015, the municipalities were compensated by 300 million. to enable them to fulfil the right to user-controlled personal assistance. In 2016, the government increased this compensation by another 205 million. So it's going to add up to over half a billion dollars. With regard to the use of user-driven personal assistance, we closely follow developments. I have launched a separate follow-up evaluation of the right, and this evaluation will end in 2017. The evaluation will show whether there is a need for further action to ensure the ability of disabled people to live an active and independent life. The feedback I have received from the FFO, Uloba and the user organisations gives the impression that the municipalities are not using this way of organising the services to a sufficient extent. I take these feedbacks very seriously, and I have taken this up with KS in the consultation meeting that I had with them recently. It is very important that municipalities look at the scope of user-led personal assistance, and find appropriate ways to integrate user-led personal assistance into the services they will provide to users. As I said, I follow closely the way municipalities organise and offer the scheme, and the evaluation will show whether there is a need for further action. At the same time, I would like to stress that if users feel that the municipality is failing to fulfil its obligations to provide user-driven personal assistance and to organise the service afterwards, they should appeal to the county council. Complaints that are handled by the county will form part of the basis we will use in our further work on user-driven personal assistance. A user-driven personal assistance policy has also been developed, which I experience was very well received in the user organisations. These are, of course, indicative and do not have the same legal status as law and regulation. Nevertheless, it is the most powerful tool we have to manage the municipalities in this area, with the exception of regulating the area. I feel, in the same way as the representative, that there is too much distance between Storting's intention behind the rights fixation and the follow-up of the municipalities. I communicate all the way through the meetings I have with municipalities and KS about this, that if you are in doubt, you should look at Stortinget's intention with the scheme. I think that would solve many of the problems that users face in this area in their conversations with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1147	Thank you for a good answer. Yesterday I met a married couple with a disabled boy of six years. I have here the pile of correspondence – complaints to the municipality, engagement of a lawyer, complaint to the county council, etc. Many of these families have been hard tried, and the fact that one has to set such processes in motion is an extra strain. Many probably experience the auxiliaries almost as a power apparatus in that way. The question is, How can we help this family, other families, and other users? What this family is saying to me is that the free beauty of the municipalities trumps everything, at least it's their clear experience of the situation. How can we prevent this, and how can we make the municipalities even more follow up on what is the intent of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1156	We have used the most powerful tools we have, in addition to detailing this in a law. It is, of course, very demanding, in addition to the right-wing attachment, which is very clear on who should have an offer for user-driven personal assistance. I perceive that very many of the conflicts are not about the issues that are rights-bound, but about the content of the scheme, the administration and the allocation of the scheme. It is clear that it is an area that is more challenging to regulate in detail in law and regulation. The circular, or supervisor, in this area gives very clear leadership, which I perceive the user organisations also agree with, and which I also feel is completely in line with what was Stortinget's intention. But as I said, we will evaluate this, and I believe that we have to look at whether further regulation of the law and regulation of this area is necessary, if it turns out that the municipalities do not follow up what is Storting's intention. But I mean basically that it should have been unnecessary. If one in the municipality goes back and reads what was the intention of the Storting and the government of this system, we would be able to avoid many of the very difficult things that the representative refers to, that people who have a great need for help to themselves or their children experience the municipality as a counterparty and not a fellow player in their quest to create a good life for themselves and their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1161	I share the views of the Council of State that the guidelines are reasonably good, and so do the user organisations. Nevertheless, I'm a little concerned that the municipalities here extend their discretion too far in relation to both the rights attaching of Storting's intentions and these national guidelines. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether it is possible to see that the county councillors could go in and supervise the municipalities and check whether the BPA system is in the care of the different municipalities, whether they follow the national guidelines, and in that case whether the guidelines are accurate enough, or whether to go further, as the Council of State suggests, could be the next step.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1166	To get an assessment of this, we have already launched an follow-up evaluation, which will come in 2017. It'll be able to give us some of the answers to those questions. The supervisory activities of the members of staff in this area are part of the oversight activities of the Health Authority. We have a very clear principle, that from a political level – and it has been this independent of government – we do not go into and identify areas for supervision, because it violates the principle that supervision should have an arm's length distance and a high degree of autonomy in relation to political leadership, because giving supervision tasks of supervision in specific areas can also take from them resources to supervision in other areas. It is important that it is not perceived as politically governed but as a professional assessment by the supervisory authorities. But I believe and hope that the follow-up evaluation, which is already under way, will be able to give us answers in this area as well. Then I would encourage dissatisfied users to complain in these cases – and I hope it does – even if it requires more work. The complaints will also be able to give us a hint.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1176	‘The call for tenders for health-care establishments’ ambulance helicopter services for the years 2018 to 2024 ended with the selection of only one private provider for the air operations services and with the reduction of helicopter capacity in North Norway. This weakens the capacity and preparedness of the population in Northern Norway, both in the emergency and accident situations of daily life, claims medical personnel in an article in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal. How will the Council of State correct this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1183	It is Health Nord RHF that has custody in North Norway and that has assessed the capacity and availability of the ambulance helicopter services in the region. The ANS air ambulance service has had close dialogue with Health Nord in the design of the basis for the provision of ambulance helicopter services from 2018 to 2024 and in the decision on allocation. Air ambulance services in North Norway, with their six ambulance aircraft, three ambulance helicopters and two rescue helicopters, are a vital resource for emergency medical preparedness in North Norway. Health Nord established in 2015 a new base on Evenes, equipped with an intermediate-sized helicopter. This has significantly increased local preparedness and has also improved overall helicopter preparedness in North Norway. All helicopter bases currently in service shall also be maintained during the next contractual period. From 2018, the medium-sized type ambulance helicopters, Airbus H145, currently used on Evenes, shall also be inserted in Brønnøysund. This helicopter type has less capacity and flies slightly slower than the helicopters in Tromsø and Ålesund. But Airbus H145 is still a fast helicopter, capable of solving all the known air ambulance missions today. For the ANS Air ambulance service, it is always important to improve flight safety and service robustness. The new contracts require technical solutions to contribute to increased flight safety, and a back-up mechanism will be put in place to increase the robustness of the service. I would also like to mention that during 2018 the new rescue helicopters will be put into operation at the bases in Bodø and Banak. The new rescue helicopters will have much better ‘serious characteristics’ than the current Sea King and have significantly higher speeds. Health Nord RHF believes that the health benefit of choosing large helicopters instead of medium-sized ones is too small in relation to the cost. The ANS air ambulance service assesses the overall air ambulance preparedness in North Norway as very good, even after 2018. The Air ambulance service in North Norway is the responsibility of Health North and must be assessed against the total service provision in the region. I will not review the assessments and decisions Health Nord has made in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1202	We agree that it is Health Nord that has operational responsibility, but nevertheless this is a political decision. To the extent that I am to thank the Council of States, I should like to thank him for being crystal clear that he has not intended to do anything about the construction of the offer of helicopter ambulances in North Norway. We agree that this is a very important resource, that this is a crucial factor for the population in North Norway to have an equivalent health offer compared to the rest of the country in acute situations. But what we don't agree on is what we're going to do with this when we're building the standby down. While we have this discussion, health businesses will decide this week on the invitation to tender for ambulance aircraft. There it is also possible to build down and drop jet ambulance aircraft in Tromsø, but build up in South Norway and station on the Gardermoen. Is the Council of State satisfied that the ambulance services and the offer to the people of North Norway are being further reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1207	Firstly, I do not agree with the description given by the representative here. Secondly, it's not right either, it's not a political decision, it's a professional decision, which Health Nord is best suited to make. I don't have the opportunity to go in and assess the capacity and quality of different types of helicopters; it makes sense that those responsible for the service do. Health Nord has set out the criteria in the tender document, together with the Air ambulance ANS, and it is they who have set the conditions for the development of this service. Politically to review that kind of assessment was also not made when the Workers' Party put in government, and I think it would be very unwise if I had done so, for this is a responsibility that lies in Health Nord, and they develop their services in close cooperation with the municipalities that are in Health Nord.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1212	This is a very strange perception of what it means to be elected to the people and the Ombudsman for a population. The government itself said in its first answer that he would not pass the test. So we agree that the Council of States has the opportunity to review it. I believe this is a question of the level of ambulance helicopter service to be at. The ambulance helicopter service is weakened for financial reasons, because the Health Nord assessment is linked to their feeling that the increased preparedness they receive for the cost is not good enough. The answer to that is very simple. When we agree that there is going to be a worse offer than it is today, it has been built up over time, it is a relatively good offer, and the new tenders are getting worse, then it is a political decision to choose to reduce the level of services. The Council of State must answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1219	No, it's wrong what the representative said. Intervention in these kinds of decisions — a political one, for example. shall address an assessment of the quality of different types of helicopters, define initially relatively technical and detailed conditions in a tender document — that is not the way we have chosen to organise healthcare in Norway. It's part of the care-care responsibility, which is now in the health regions. It is a position of decision-making responsibility and level that is not new to me, but represents the perception of the management system that was also applicable when the Workers' Party was responsible for health care. It would have been very worrying if a health minister after such a tender had intervened and cancelled it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1227	This question, from the representative Kåre Simensen to the Minister of Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Integration on behalf of the Minister of Justice and Security, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1232	‘The Finnish and Finnmarks Property Act is a political compromise in which a system to investigate whether individuals or teams or associations have any special rights in some areas of Finnmark. Now the head of the Finnish Commission announces that with today's financial framework, the Commission will not be finished until 2035. Can the Council of State be satisfied with such announced progress due to a lack of financial resources to the Court of Justice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1239	For some years, there has been some uncertainty as to how much money the government and the Stortinge have actually granted for the rights mapping in Finnmark and the extent to which the State will cover the parties' costs in proceedings before the Finnish State Foreign Court. This has turned out to be unfortunate for both the Finnish State Commission and the State Court. That is why a timely issue is raised by the representative. Three measures have been taken to address the challenges: I Prop. 155 L for 2015–2016 on amendments to the Finnish Law proposed new rules on the State’s coverage of the parties’ costs before the Utmark Court. The proposal is agreed with the Sametinget and will involve a certain reduction in the coverage compared to how the Utmark Court has interpreted the Finnish Law at this point. In the context of the revised national budget for 2016, it was decided that such costs should no longer be covered by the budget of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but should be covered by the chapter on free legal aid. Thus, a very variable expenditure item that made progress planning difficult was deducted from the allocation for rating mapping. At the same time, the estimated need at this point was redispatched from the hood. 410 Courts of Justice. 470 Free legal aid. I refer to RNB and this year's budget proposal. The third measure is to clarify, during this year's budgetary procedure, the amount allocated to the rights mapping in Finnmark. Based on the historical allocations, the price and salary adjustments, etc. which has been committed, and the re-disposal referred to in Chapter 470, is based on its failure in the annual budget proposal for the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Now 410 is 16 million. kr that has been allocated the rating mapping in Finnmark. With these three measures, I have a good hope that we can make good progress in the screening process. If it turns out not to vote, the government will have to consider the matter on a later occasion. 410 is to be administered more than 16 million. kr per year for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1252	I thank you for the answer, and it is actually an answer that I perceive gives hope for more money until the important work of the Finnmark Commission is in progress. I have to admit that I had expected the problem to be dealt with, and that the work they are doing would be further delayed. I am therefore very pleased that we see at least a hope of being able to continue the work that is going on, which is very important to Finnmark's population and not least to Finnmark's property, and that you might be able to complete it by the time that was scheduled, in 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1259	Yes, it is absolute hope. It is a little difficult to say just when this will end, but now at least the frames you have to work within are clear. And then I hope, as the representative Simensen, that this will go at a greater pace in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1264	I just want to mention that it is conflictful, and the Finnish Law was born for a rather tough time. That's why it's incredibly important to get on target and to get the issue of rights clarified. I myself know a lot of people who are involved, and a lot of people who hope to achieve that right belongs to those who had to apply. In a way, I'm kind of happy that we've come so far that the state has so far given the public most of the rights, and that's probably something we Finnmarking want. There may not be any reason to ask so many more questions, other than to say that I am satisfied. But I want to follow this up and hope that this job can reach the goal in 2025 and not in 2035. I'm actually going to be 80 years old, and I'd like to come with me that day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1271	I am very happy to hear that the representative is satisfied with the answer. I fully agree that there is a need for clarification. I have previously been responsible for reindeer management policy and know that this is a topic that is very high on the Finnmark agenda. So we're betting that the pace now goes up, and that we can get to the goal faster than it looked to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1279	This question, from the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered that the Minister for Immigration and Integration, on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1284	‘The Government has recognised the need for additional capacity for DNA analysis in the criminal justice area, as an addition to the Forensic Institute. In 2014, the Workers' Party proposed that the accredited Judicial Genetics Centre (RGS) in Tromsø be the environmental number two for such analyses, which was not supported by the government at the time. The Health Minister announced in spring that the Police Directorate would make proposals before the summer on several suppliers of DNA analyses. Has the State Council received the proposal, and what should be its place in this picture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1291	As the representative Knutsen refers to, the Minister of Health and Welfare answered a question on 24 June this year to give written answers on the status of the work to facilitate good and safe communication for the use of several DNA analysts to the police. In the answers given by the Minister of Health and Health, there is one example. to the Directorate of Police to submit to the Ministry of Justice and Security a concrete project proposal and a plan for the organisation and implementation of the multi-supplier scheme. I can confirm that the Department has received the Police Directorate's proposal and that the proposal is under consideration. The proposal is essentially about what needs to be in place in order for the police to be able to choose between several accredited DNA analysts, so that both processing, dissemination and storage related to DNA analysis can be carried out in a safe and sound manner. In addition, it is necessary to provide funding that can support the scheme in a good way. As the representative is familiar with, and so on. shown by Innst. 59 S for 2014-2015, facilitating the use of more than one environment has long been the policy of the government parties, without, however, making a categorical distinction between public and private suppliers when they are accredited. It will be a mistake for me to place one or more specific suppliers in this picture in advance. There is an assessment the Police Directorate and the police have to make on the basis of their analytical needs and in relation to a process suitable for that purpose. However, as the Minister of Health and Health also informed in his reply, the funding of the Legal Genetics Centre has moved to the Ministry of Knowledge's cap. 260 heading 50, inter alia to ensure full independence between the current supplier, the Public Health Institute, and potential future suppliers. My first priority is to put in place a police infrastructure that ensures several suppliers equal access, and not that, as now, it is locked to a supplier. It shall not be punctuated that the arrangement we inherited from the previous government creates challenges when the aim is to exploit the capacity of several suppliers. The answer to the question is therefore in short that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has received the police directorate’s proposal. There is also room for the RGS, as the Minister of Health and Welfare has stated, through the budget and financial changes ensuring full independence between the Public Health Institute and the RGS.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1304	Thanks for the answer. I can just say that I think it's okay that it's now in the Department of Knowledge, because it's a university-based academic environment. The government has said in the government statement that it will open up to private suppliers. You had a private, small supplier in Stavanger. That laboratory has been shut down, and I am familiar with it today, there are no more accredited laboratories in Norway than the one at the Forensic Institute in Oslo and at the Rechtsgenetic Center in Tromsø. Since the Legal Genetics Centre is also training legal geneticists, it is very important for the competence you need in this field that you also get this practical experience with DNA analyses. That is why my question is: does the Council of State see that priority should be given to the Justice Genetics Centre in front of private actors that are currently not present?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1311	When you go out and try to get more suppliers, you have to do it through the purchasing law. That is why it is necessary to highlight this in a tendering process, and it will then be the Directorate of Police that is responsible for the choice of suppliers and the procurement process. It is hoped that more suppliers will be able to provide these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1316	It bothers me a little bit, because if you use a public supplier, you don't have to have a bidding round. It's only if you're private. If you want to get ahead of this, can the government imagine going into an international market? You have to do that if you are to put this out, which are very vulnerable services, privacy and other ways. My question is again: does the Council of State not see that it is safer and better in all ways to get started at the RGS in Tromsø, which is ready to start tomorrow if they just get the necessary clear signal from the government, so that we get ahead of this by getting a supplier number two? They're ready to start tomorrow if they get the assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1321	On the part of the government, we are committed to bringing competition into this market and also open up for private players to participate. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to start such a process that a tender is made and equal opportunities for all to participate in it. That's what has to be the time. So I hope, when the offer is out and the various actors are submitting their offers, that we can get a situation where there are several suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1331	‘The municipalities have listened to the state’s request to receive several lone minors and have agreed to settle for 3,000. But the IMDI now has only 1,500 they want to settle. Many municipalities that have concluded housing agreements, set up appropriate housing units and employees to follow up their children are now informed that there is no need to settle for single minors anyway. Municipalities must therefore cover the costs of setting up and winding-up despite expectations. How will the Council of State follow up these municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1338	Municipalities have shown great willingness to settle single minors and other refugees in 2015 and 2016. The municipalities have lived several lone minor refugees to date this year than in the whole of 2015, which was a record year. I want to thank the municipalities for their extraordinary efforts. At the end of September, 1,047 lone minors lived. At the same time, municipalities had decided to settle for a total of 2,947 lone minors. The September forecast shows that there will be a need to settle between 1 550 and 2 000 lone minors in 2016. There are variations in the number of asylum seekers and the number of authorised persons that determine the need to settle refugees in municipalities. Having a reception and settlement system capable of handling the fluctuations is challenging. Historically high arrivals of asylum seekers last year and low arrivals this year illustrate that this can be demanding. Cooperation and good exchange of information between administrative levels are essential for the flexibility and efficiency of the reception and settlement system. The grants for housing have been strengthened in 2015 and 2016, and the government proposes in the budget for next year to continue to ensure good framework conditions for municipalities. The grants take into account the pre-dwelling costs of municipal planning and pre-dwelling arrangements. We also propose a reorganization of the financial mechanism for the settlement of single minors. We want the reimbursement scheme for municipal child protection measures to be transformed into a permanent grant for single minors. In the new scheme, the municipality will receive a flat-rate grant per single minor refugee per year up to and including the age of 20. The scheme will contribute to more predictable framework conditions for municipalities and provide greater flexibility for municipalities. All the funds that are currently going to the reimbursement scheme will continue to go to the municipalities. I take the challenges of the municipalities seriously. I've had a meeting with the KS to hear your vision. I've also obtained input from the IMDI. The Directorate reports that after the summer they have followed up separately those municipalities which will have fewer single minors than foreseen for the purpose of converting the places into ordinary residence. During the last months of the year, a high number of settlements were expected in the country's municipalities. It is only in January 2017 that we will know with certainty how many have actually been resident in the individual municipality during 2016. I understand that it may be demanding for municipalities that have established measures it may prove that there is no need for them. Within the current discretionary guidelines, there is scope for the county to allocate discretionary funds. I will follow developments closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1355	Thanks for the answer. I understand that this may be a difficult situation, but it is also a very demanding situation for the municipalities that have followed all the calls to accept lone minors. Gjøvik municipality said they could accept 25, they only got 6. Kragerø said they could accept 15, but only got 7. Namsos could accept 13, but only got 4. Indrey said they could accept 8, but got none. Lesja municipality in my home state was told that they would accept 5. Now they don't know if they get 3 or 4 or none of them, and they've had 80 applicants for 9 jobs. There are 2,050 people living in the municipality, so it's a small municipality, and this is a big uplift for them, as it is for the municipality of Gjøvik. It is difficult to predict, but it often seems that there are some control mechanisms lacking in the IMDi when one goes out and asks for such a type of effort. I wonder, are there any special measures the Council of State is going to take to the IMFI to get a better control over this – about supply and demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1364	One of the reasons why many fewer single minors will be settled this year is that the UDI has made a change in Afghanistan, among others. in the assessments of safe areas and the security of Afghanistan as a country. This is one of the reasons why several people between the ages of 16 and 18 now have a temporary stay instead of a normal permit. There's something IMFI can't predict, because they take into account what's the starting point at the beginning of the year, and then some of the conditions have changed along the way. That's why it's important for me now to get an overview of the situation, to know what's happening in the different municipalities. We have close contact with KS to make it clear. Then I've mentioned the discretion of the county council as one possibility, and we're going to look at it more closely as we get a better overview of which municipalities are hard hit, and what kind of expenses you're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1371	Thanks for the answer. The government has also been concerned with rapid and effective integration, and that those who have received a residence permit can quickly become part of society. Now it is municipalities that have become ready to accept lone minor refugees, but then one should believe that they were also ready to accept others. We have ready-to-residence refugees, and we have about 5,500 – if I'm not completely wrong – who are in the receptions today. I believe the Council of State so far was involved, but will the Council of State see if it is possible for the municipalities that would accept lone minors, to accept other refugees who are ready to settle in our municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1378	That's what IMDi is now looking at, whether it is possible to find other people who can be settled in these municipalities, so that the job that the municipalities have done is not superfluous. It is very important also for future situations that can come, with great influx to Norway, that we have municipalities that will also be set up at that time. Therefore, it is now important how this situation is further addressed. I'm going to keep following it carefully, and we're doing what we can to get to a faster settlement process. The time from people getting a permit, until they settle, goes faster than it's done before. That's very good. Then it is clear that with the arrival picture that was last year, it will be longer for some to be treated their applications. But eventually we are in a situation where we are up-to-date, and then it is going to go much faster both to get processed applications and to get residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1385	Then we go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1393	This question, from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal to the Minister for Economic Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Knowledge who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1398	‘Proposals for a regulation on requirements for public acquisition apprentices increase the threshold from SEK 500000 to SEK 1.1 million. SEK for government grantors and SEK 1.75 million. crowns for others. The majority of the population agreed that the threshold should be raised somewhat. One of the government's objectives with regard to the amendments to tenders was to require apprentices to participate in tendering contracts. The increase will lead to a large number of contracts not requiring apprentices. How will the Council of State ensure that the public procurement legislation ensures adequate apprenticeships?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1405	In the summer, the award of the grant decided on a new provision of the Public Acquisitions Act requiring contracting authorities to require the use of apprentices in the performance of the contract. Before Christmas I will adopt a regulation laying down the detailed conditions for the obligation, on the basis of the public consultation that has just been concluded. One of the proposals in the consultation draft is a threshold value which determines the minimum value a task must have in order to be subject to the obligation. It is important to stress that there is a new legal provision that introduces a new obligation and the rules governing that obligation, not a change of an existing threshold, as the question might give the impression. When the draft law was sent to the hearing in 2015, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries showed the comparable Danish scheme with a threshold of 10 million. krones. Several hearing bodies considered that this threshold was too high. Other hearing bodies considered that Norway should set the same threshold as in the Danish scheme. In particular, on the basis of the consultation of the draft law, I have proposed a threshold of 1.1 million in the draft regulation. DKK in the case of contracting authorities and SEK 1,7 million. crowns for other contracting authorities. The preliminary review of the consultation opinions strongly supports the scheme itself and the main principles of the draft regulation. One of the points of the regulation on which there is disagreement among the hearing bodies is precisely the threshold. Some hearing bodies think the proposals are too high, and some think they are too low. Many subscribe to the values proposed by the ministry. Those who want a lower threshold are concerned that there are many public contracts that have a lower value than the proposed thresholds and that should also be subject to the obligation to use apprentices. Those who believe the thresholds should be higher refer to the extra costs for both the contracting entity and the supplier of the scheme and of having an apprentice and that these additional costs are disproportionate in the case of low-value tasks. Some hearing bodies are also concerned that small enterprises often compete for the small contracts and that it may be more difficult for these companies to compete for the contracts when the use of apprentices is required. I am concerned that the obligation to require the use of apprentices in public assignments should contribute to more apprenticeships and contribute to the reduction of financial crime. At the same time, we must ensure that we do not create a system that creates unnecessary red tape and extra costs for contractors and suppliers and that does not create distortions of competition. That is why I am going to go through the hearing opinions carefully to find a proper balance between these considerations when the regulation is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1416	I thank you for your answer. Yes, it is true that there has been a change on the part of the government in that you can have apprentices in companies that receive public tenders in the past, but that it is now a must rule. That's very good. But then – as the Council of State also said, in the hearing replies he referred to – it becomes a bit demanding to see that if you set the threshold of 1.1 million. kr, resulting in fewer apprentices receiving apprenticeships through public tender contracts. Does the Council of State see that challenge, and is he willing to weigh apprenticeship places in a positive direction in determining the changes to the regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1429	The whole point of both the legislative change and the regulation is to get more apprenticeship places; it is to use the public purchasing power to get more companies, suppliers to the public, to have apprentices, especially in areas where there is a shortage of apprenticeship places. So I am not in doubt that this will be a strengthening compared to the current legislation, simply because today's apprenticeship clause is a rather vaguely formulated rule of opportunity, which means that you can make demands, but in practice it is not used, while this becomes a shell rule. And that, in itself, makes you want much clearer requirements. And then it's the assessment of the threshold value. There are the reasons, as I said, that on the one hand we want a threshold that is so low that it becomes real, but at the same time it must not be so low that very many small businesses, very many small tasks, are associated with extra bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1436	I thank you for the answer, and I share with the Council of State and the government's wish that it should go from can to shell – that we should have more apprentices. Now I hope that we're not just getting right from the jump edge, but that we're also going to land right, that leads to more apprenticeships without too much bureaucracy. At least the Christian People's Party is hard on the heart to convey that small suppliers think this is going to be very demanding. They are afraid that now, with a high threshold, they may not get the assignments, and that they are also missing out on being able to have apprentices in those contracts – as they had previously seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1441	I really want to say it as simple as this is no exact science. I am absolutely convinced that the Danish border is too high – that is, 10 million. kr has never been applicable. The limit of 500,000 kroner, if you were to move in that landscape, is enough too low to find some level in the middle. We've put ourselves at the lowest possible limit. It is also clear that the purpose of this is to provide more apprenticeship places. It's no other purpose than that. The aim is to provide more apprenticeship places. If it turns out that we've set the limit so high that it doesn't lead to any more apprenticeship places, you have to lower the limit again. I think that's quite obvious. If the tool you have selected is not suitable for the job, you need to change the tool. Of course, we must follow that lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1451	‘The Westfold population wants clearer guidelines for the use of coercion and power against small children in kindergartens. In a report in the evening post, there are examples where children have been barred from bathrooms with leaked light, being set in a armchair against their will as ‘punishment’, and using diapers against the child’s will. How does the Council of State assess this situation, and what will the government do to prevent the use of coercion and power against children in Norwegian kindergartens and to ensure that both children and parents can be safe in supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1458	Let me start by saying that several of the single examples that have emerged in the evening post are clearly unacceptable. The second is just a little clarification on the question, because the education manager at Fylkesmannen in Vestfold has, as far as I have understood, not asked for new guidelines – the letter we received explicitly states that it is not the law that is the problem – but she has aired whether or not one should have a type of central guide to better practice the guidelines. I think it's a good approach, because there's nothing in our law that says that the use of coercion and power against children is okay. Then, of course, you have to use common sense. Everyone who works with children understands that it's got to wear hats when it's minus ten degrees cold, it's not coercion and power. That's not the kind of problem we're talking about. It is also worth mentioning that coercion and power towards children are contrary to the values and leadership of today's framework, which is based on the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Fundamental Rights of Children. We are now working on a new framework plan for kindergarten, and there, this view of value and these leaders will not only be continued, but will also be made clear. The Education Directorate is currently assessing the need for such a guide. I have a very pragmatic relationship with it. If that's what's being asked in the sector, it would be. At the same time, we also have to be aware that there are a lot of problems here that it's not necessarily so easy to write down in a supervisor. And ultimately, this is about the professional beauty of kindergartens — the kindergarten education, the training that other adults get in kindergarten, and the work of the manager through the educational and daily management of kindergarten, which is to ensure that it is in line with both children’s rights, kindergarten law and framework plan. I just want to mention in the end that Stortinget has agreed that, in addition to the local authorities' supervision, one should also have an opportunity for the county council to have independent supervision of the kindergartens. This means that the county can, even on its own initiative, go in and investigate if they are given tips about, informed about, or see that it is mentioned, for example. improper use of coercion or power in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1473	I agree with what is pointed out that the director of education in Vestfold is asking for guidance material. There is nothing in today's law that suggests that there should be such a situation out there. But that's the problem. I'm on the Health and Care Committee. We have a child protection system that helps the children – we know that there is unnecessary coercion, we have a health care system that helps patients – we know that there is unnecessary coercion, we have an old-age care system that helps the elderly – we know that there is an abuse of power. I don't think we should be naive either: we have a nursery sector where unnecessary use of power can happen. My question is what we're doing. The law is good, but the practice is not always the same. It can be supervision, and one can get guidance. I think we should talk about it. Does the Council agree that we should perhaps raise this debate in the nursery?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1480	I would like to take up the debate. I replied on purpose not only about the overall general things in kindergarten, although crewing, pedagogical staff, further education, quality – all of this – is of course important. I believe very strongly that within today's law there is, as I said, no room for power and coercion. But ultimately, it will be a highly professional question of judgement when you come up with difficult situations and grey-zone situations, and it will be a question of whether our system is well enough rigged to detect clear and obvious breaches of this. Some of the examples mentioned by the questioner, for example: being confined to a bathroom with switched off light is obvious examples of a type of forced and power use that should not occur in Norwegian kindergartens. I don't know the problem very well in other areas, but what sounds like here is that this is a problem that might have to be raised – not just in one sector, but across several departments' responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1489	It's being raised in child protection and in the health sector, but I don't feel like it's being raised in the same way here, which might be a little bit more immature. In the big news that the government delivered about quality in kindergarten, which we have treated, I have applied for the words ‘force’ and ‘power’, but this is not mentioned as a challenge at all. Now, maybe you should take a look at what you can do from the department's side to tell us that this is actually something that is involved in the professional assessment of the challenges that are there. Yes, that's the issue of intelligence – some cases are clear violations, I think, of what is acceptable, and then the question is, What will the Council of State do to ensure that the cases that are clearly misused of power are then dealt with? Finally, with crew: will the Council of State ensure increased staffing, better quality and inclusion in education?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1498	When it comes to the question of how to ensure that this is discovered, we have to rely on the supervision that municipalities have. There is now also an opportunity for independent supervision from the county. It is important that both kindergarten and parental employees report to either the municipality or county. As far as staffing is concerned, we have announced in the budget that we are sending a proposal for a standard of personnel by 2020 – that is what the statement says, and that is what the previous government said – at the hearing during the spring. As far as kindergarten teachers are concerned, we have put in what is involved in violence, sexual abuse and child abuse, which unfortunately has been little clear in both kindergarten and teacher education. Now it's going to go into place both places. I also think I'm going to be so humble that I'm going to say that even if the statesmen get reports and get questions about this, it doesn't necessarily mean that there's not a problem out there in the sector. It's one of the things that the Education Directorate is looking at. I'm also going to take it to the department, so that we can also work on and think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1512	‘A selection at the University of Tromsø, Norway’s Arctic University, is to undertake a number of humanities courses. Well over 100 employees have signed up on a plug. Governments have announced a major communication on humanities and have expressed a desire to bet on these subjects and to contribute to their becoming more relevant. What is the opinion of the Council of State that Norway’s Arctic University is considering cutting down so many humanities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1519	The representative Aasen has just led a very exciting selection in the direction of his party. I saw in the report and the recommendation that they made, that the starting point would be that institutions had to have great autonomy in order to develop quality. That's a little bit of the starting point for my answer. The University of Tromsø, Norway's Arctic University, has had a strategic education committee that has proposed changes to the study portfolio. It shall be dealt with by the Board of Governors on 24 November. The matter is under internal consultation at the faculties, so there is an internal process in which no conclusions have yet been drawn. The problem description in the introduction to the report states that the students at UiT will meet research-based and societal-relevant education and at UiT they will experience being part of an active and good learning environment. However, demographic developments in North Norway in the next decades show that their future recruitment base is uncertain, and several UiT courses already have a critically low recruitment rate. So that's the background. They've gone through 78 Bachelor's programmes based on data from the last five years, sometimes even further back. The Committee has not considered other considerations such as the quality, strategic and political relevance of the research environment, regional responsibility or the role of UiT as a broad university. These are aspects that will be addressed in the consultation round. The humanities study programmes proposed are language and economics Bachelor's degree programmes, direction of studies in theology of theology in religious science and three of the direction of study in the bachelor's degree in language and literature. It concerns general literature science, French and German. In addition, the Bachelor’s degree in archaeology, philosophy and Russian studies is proposed in its present form, but with some modifications there. That it stirs reactions and debate is understandable, and that's also how it should be. In my opinion, it is nevertheless a vital part of the strategy for the board of directors of a university to evaluate the study offer on an ongoing basis. Universities and colleges in Norway have and must have a high degree of autonomy, including freedom to set up and close study offers with some exceptions. This is followed by a responsibility to align the supply to society’s needs, the demand from the students and the strategy and profile of the universities or colleges. The proposal from the Strategic Education Committee at UiT is just that, a proposal. I do not intend to engage in an internal decision-making process in a matter that falls within the remit of the board. On the other hand, I intend to present a big message about the humanities and humanities, to which the representative of Aasen has been very sceptical in the past, but who may also be able to deal with some of the overall issues related to the humanities, not least our language subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1540	The study portfolio is initially the responsibility of the institutions. I fully agree with that. My concern is not that the Council of State should already have clear positions on what to do at the University of Tromsø. There are many reasons why they should have this responsibility themselves. It's about being autonomous, autonomous units, and they're closer to both the number of applicants, the kind of self-competence they have, and so on. At the same time, the sum of the rational and apparently correct decisions of each institution cannot be determined only by the institution if it conflicts with the whole of the professional offer in Norway. We need to make sure that we've covered up all the subjects we need as a nation. Then I wonder if the Council of State shares this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1549	Yes, I share the overall assessment. There are some professional environments we need as a country. I agree that if there had been a theoretical situation in which all the universities in Norway suddenly dropped, for example. It would be a national problem for the German academic community or its independent Bachelors in German. Now we've spent a lot of time and resources on a structural process in higher education that makes it easier to coordinate such things. The previous government had its SAK programme, which was also to coordinate the academic offer at our universities and colleges. It was a limited success, to say it cautiously. I'm going to continue to have the ambition of getting better real coordination. I think it is good that the representative of Aasen says that she will not interfere with the internal conditions of UiT. But it shouldn't be that every time you have a real, professional debate at a university or a college, it is lifted into the Stortinget and creates expectations that the Stortinget will intervene in something that the Stortinget should not intervene in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1558	I think it's quite natural to take up just this with the little subjects and the humanities of the Stortinget on a general basis, and this was a good occasion. The Council of State itself mentioned this with the SACS, cooperation, division of labour, concentration and aggregation. The S's, i.e. cooperation and aggregation, we've heard and seen a lot. It's easy to see. But the division of labour we've heard much less about. I wish we had seen more of it, not least within the humanities, because better work sharing is an instrument that we should use and work well with. Many small subjects are spread around many institutions. It is just as natural that the department engages in division of labour as in aggregation. There is a danger that the small subjects may disappear or at least become very small if there are too few applicants. Why hasn't the Council of State taken an equally visible grip on just this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1565	As I mentioned, the previous government had its SAK process that was going to do two things. This should lead to division of labour and structural changes. None of the parts led to that. Now we have had the largest structural change in Norwegian higher education since 1994. I'm very pleased with that. When it comes to division of labour, I admit we haven't gotten the same distance. One of the objectives of both the quality notification in higher education, which comes over Christmas, and with the humanities notification will be to have a new vitality in that work. Of course, it is absolutely free for any big-time representative to ask exactly the questions that they might want to ask. However, calling a question with the wording ‘What does the Council of State think that Norway’s Arctic University is considering putting so many humanities down?’ to a general question is well to draw the term ‘general’ a little far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1575	‘When the University of Tromsø and the Finnish Higher Education College were merged, there were clear leadership for the merger through a Royal Resolution of 15 February 2013. It was decided that a separate faculty with headquarters in Alta, called the Finnmark faculty, would be created. The university board is now going through the organization. A NIFU report proposes three different models for which the Finnmark faculty is excluded from all options. Will the Council of State ensure that the clear premises made in 2013 are still in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1582	The current University of Tromsø and the University of Finnmark were both important to further develop the Nordic working and social life. They saw that by joining forces they would have better conditions to discharge this responsibility and provide high-quality education and research. The University and the College developed a common platform, which was the basis for the decision of the Red-Green Government to merge. The creation of the platform means that the merged university was established with campers in several places, including: with a faculty with a main seat in Alta, called the Finnmark faculty. The Royal Copenhagen resolution on the merger describes how the university and college through the platform had come to the conclusion that the UiT – Norwegian Arctic University would look like when it was set up. Since then, the universities of Harstad and Narvik have also become part of the university. The Royal Resolutions do not lock the organization of a university for all future. It is not the case that royal resolution deprives the university of the freedom and responsibility under law to determine the internal organisation. I am concerned that UiT – Norway’s Arctic University has and takes responsibility for ensuring good access to high-quality education and research in the region. Just to be completely clear about it: what is a clear political expectation, and one cannot ignore, is that it implies a clear and clear presence and activity not only in Troms, but also in Finnmark. But that's not true, I think, that I'm going to mean something about an internal process and a discussion, which is also not completed at the University of Tromsø – the Arctic University of Norway, about the division into or localization of faculties. In addition, it is worth noting that the organisation is not crucial to the extent of the professional activity to be carried out in Finnmark. Rather, you first have to ask yourself what tasks you need to do, and then you have to ask yourself what organisation you need to have. As far as I have been aware, there are no signals from the University of Tromsø – Norway's Arctic University that you want less presence in Finnmark than you've had up to now. The internal organisation and location of faculties, institutes and other organisational entities are under the responsibility of the Board of Directors. I think it is positive that the board assesses how the university is always best organised, and neither I nor anyone else should interfere with assessments that the law adds to the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1601	I thank you for the answer, and not least I thank you for the fact that the Council of State is present in the Chamber and answers questions from Stortinget. I want to start by stating that I was in favour of the merger of the Finnish Academy and the University of Tromsø in advance of what happened in 2013. I also understand that the Council of State will not go into detail on how to organise Norway's Arctic University, and that's not what I'm asking. But it is true that the merger of the Finnish Academy and the University of Tromsø took place on the initiative of the two institutions – two independent institutions – and it also took place after a very thorough political anchoring, where the premises were dealt with by the county council in Finnmark, and where the then government was heavily involved and made the premise for what was to happen. The question then is: Does the current Minister of Knowledge think that the political assumptions underlying this merger in 2013 have a shelf-life date of only three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1610	Of course, the Council of State is present and answers to questions – just as they have been said. What we're talking about here is a report that NIFU has commissioned from the University of Tromsø – Norway's Arctic University as a review of the organisational structure. So the representative Pedersen asks the slightly polemic question: is it that the political leaders have a shelf life of only three years? Our law implies that the organisation of a university or a college is the responsibility of the board. But it's a very clear expectation like, among other things. is expressed through the money we give to the institutions, the basic appropriations, where UiT traditionally has a higher basic allocation than many other institutions just because they have a different portfolio of tasks. So there can be no doubt that the Stortinget, and the department and I, want a clear and clear presence from UiT in Finnmark. But then the question is whether it's done by having a faculty or not. It's an internal decision I didn't intend to make until it once has... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1619	My question was not polemic. It is a very real question, because a central prerequisite for the merger to have political agreement in 2013, was that the University of Finnmark should not only be closed into the University of Tromsø and become a branch, but that there should be a merger between two independent institutions, that there should be once again decision-making power both administratively, organisationally and professionally in Finnmark, and that the campus in Alta and the Finnmarks environment should also have a place in the day-to-day management of the new university. Had not these conditions been put in place, it is certainly not certain that there would be a merger between the two institutions, and therefore it is so important to have clear political leadership that it remains. It is also part of the history that the university was awarded new places of study and money to set up new engineering training in Finnmark as part of the merger. It is also proposed to be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1626	I think we have to distinguish a little bit different questions here. First of all, it is not all the study offerings in Alta that are connected to the Finnish faculty. Teacher training, for example, which is incredibly important for the region and for Finnmark counties, is not connected to the Finnmark faculty. So what we're discussing here – and it's important to stress – is not whether UiT – Norway's Arctic University should have a clear, clear and strong presence also in Finnmark, even more than today, serving Finnmark County and serving the county. I see that as a clear and clear assumption from Stortinget, and that is also a starting point for me. The question is: When UiT is through a discussion about its entire faculty structure, shall I now, as the Council of State, after a report by the NIFU, go in and pre-conclusion in relation to a task explicitly assigned to the board by law? I'm not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1636	‘The government has asked the government to look at the funding system in the university and higher education sectors in order to increase non-discrimination between the new and old universities. But the government has laid down different framework conditions. After the merger, North University needs targeted vocational education, and resources are needed. Will the Council of State ensure the strengthening of the North University and the allocation of funds to support the merger process to the university?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1643	In the 2016 draft budget, the government had a thorough discussion of the basic funds of the institutions, explaining why bases may vary. The size of the basic components of each institution reflects priorities of government and accumulation over time. That means, for example, cf. previous questions, that the University of Tromsø — Norway’s Arctic University has traditionally had a higher base than many other institutions, partly also because each time the Stortinge grants e.g. study places or scholarships increase the basic allocation of an institution. It is worth mentioning that in recent years, with this majority, new universities and higher education institutions have achieved significant growth on the basis of, among other things, as a result of new study places, new recruitment positions and other bets. The new universities also have the highest real growth in recent years, and that is not something you should boast of as a state council, but if you look at our proposal for a state budget for this year, you will see that the University of Oslo has in practice zero growth, while the University of Nord, the University of Agder and the University of Stavanger have good, partly strong, real growth, at least for Agder and Stavanger. Then it's also worth mentioning that there's a lot of money inside our draft state budget that's not yet distributed, and that's probably going to benefit North University. The SGEI funds of Nord universitet are the result of a rather demanding merger with the College of Nesna and the Nord-Trøndelag High School. They're going to need money from the state to make it, and that money is not yet distributed, but it's in the budget. We've also gone 250 million. NOK – if I do not remember faults – overall this year for the teacher training courses to prepare for new masters. That money is not distributed either. North University is a strong and big teacher, very important for the country, so there's also money that's going to come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1652	Thanks for the answer. In the proposal for a State budget which is now under discussion in the United Kingdom, the government proposes to re-establish the funding model for the university and higher education sectors. The specific model proposed only became known when the State budget was presented and will enter into force as early as 2017. In the budget, we can read that with the changes in the funding system, the government in particular wants to stimulate better implementation in education. Predictability was important in the comments of the Church, Education and Research Committee in Stortinget. It was emphasized especially. The new funding model from next year does not seem exactly to help the higher education sector achieve its objectives better, nor is it particularly predictable for the institutions. For North University, this leads to a cut in transfers of 8.1 million. kr next year and 16.2 m. kr in 2018. How does the Council of State feel about strengthening Nord University by changing the funding model as proposed by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1665	The elements of the new funding model were known and adopted by the Stortinget. The calculations came first with today's government budget. The new funding system does one thing that the new universities have asked for, and that is that it becomes more competitive, that is, more dependent on results and less directly into the base. With the two new indicators that have arrived, a contribution and external indicator and an indicator that a degree study is being conducted, it means that institutions that are now getting a little less left because they do not have such good results have the opportunity to improve and come back more strongly. Then, in order to damp down the outcomes of the individual institutions, we have chosen to phase it in over two years. Finally, it is worth mentioning that if you look at the funding system in isolation, you get a different picture than if you see the budget as a whole. The budget as a whole gives Nord universitet a raise of $24 million. kr and a real growth of 2 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1672	Thank you again to the Council of State. North University, as the Council of State also said, is one of the institutions formed on the basis of clear political orders for structural changes and mergers, initiated by this government, but also widely supported by the Stortinget. The structural changes mean that in some areas, some institutions face greater challenges by meeting the requirements for accreditation as a university. Now the government is proposing to change the framework conditions for institutions to worse, without notice and without justification, as institutions perceive it. North University has put special emphasis on aquaculture and life sciences and is one of the world's leading environments in the Dark Bay, which is researching the feeding of farmed salmon and feeding in both fresh water and sea water. Equal access to higher education across the country is an important principle of Norwegian knowledge policy. There is a broad consensus on the Stortinget. How will the Council of State strengthen the professional environments and universities of North Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1683	Let me first say that I fundamentally disagree that this has come without notice and without justification. This funding system was adopted by the Stortinget last year. It would have been an expert committee that had worked on it. It was notified from the department many years in advance, and the new indicators that we have introduced into the system, there was a broad consensus in the sector. But some institutions see that the outcomes of those indicators are such that even though they may be able to benefit from this in the longer term by improving the results, it can, in isolation, turn negative. Anyway, if you look at the budget, North University gets 24 million. kr more to next year compared to this year – a real growth of 2 pst. In addition, they, as the representative also rightly mentions, will receive extra money because they have merged – a demanding merger too, and we have to pay for that. They will also receive additional funds to upgrade teacher training to a five-year master's course.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1688	We go to question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1697	This question, from the representative Karianne O. Heavy to the Minister of Culture, answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Culture, who has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1702	It is good that the Minister of Knowledge can at least answer my question. «Northmen like to see that the forest is green and the sea blue, especially with our family on Sundays. Sunday open shops are located in the government platform of the Right and Advance Party, and were a hot potato during the 2015 local election campaign. With massive protests from people and local government from the north to the south, the government would trump through Sunday-open shops despite bulging around the country. Now it's quiet. Can the Council of State now guarantee that she will not allow open Sunday shops?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1711	I must regret that this answer will be in Austrian and not in Turkish, since I am a temporary worker. In spring 2015, the Ministry of Culture carried out a broad consultation on the proposal for changes to the Holiday Act to allow Sunday open shops. The legislation imposing Sunday-closed shops has a number of exceptions, so Norway is not Sunday-closed. Among other things, smaller grocery stores, the Brustad arches, garden centers and outlets in typical tourist resorts – probably not funny in our largest tourist town, Oslo – can stay open when the other shops have to stay closed. The law has unlucky sides. There are distortions of competition between points of sale affected by the obligation to keep closed, non-regulated forms of trade and outlets subject to the various exceptions provided for by the law. Then people's pattern of action is changing. Before that, if you were to shop, you would have to go to a store that was open, go physically, or perhaps shop on mail orders, but it never became so intimately large. Today, Internet commerce is becoming more and more common also in the case of groceries. Then people can sit at home and order, among other things. food on the Internet, have them delivered to the door or possibly pick them up at a pickup point on a Sunday. The consultation round sparked a major public debate, and there were almost 7 000 hearing replies. Both the consultation round and the public debate have helped to identify the complexity of this issue. The government has taken it seriously. There will be no changes to the legislation that imposes Sunday-related shops now. Instead, the government has appointed a sample to investigate questions about Sunday open shops. The committee has also received a broad mandate and a broad membership and will deliver its investigation in the autumn of 2017. It shall include, inter alia: take into account changes in people’s patterns of action. If we are suddenly in a situation where mass is traded on Sundays, but only by those who are so lucky that they have a functioning online store, the debate here may also be different at home. It is therefore natural to await the work of the sample and any new consultation before deciding on how to conclude on this matter. My hope is that the committee can find solutions that are so good and so forward-looking that it is possible to get broad support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1724	Thanks for the answer. I register that the Council of State will not guarantee that one will not allow Sunday open shops. The vast majority of those who work in the retail trade are women, and many work there involuntary part-time. If it's going to be Sunday open, it's mainly these women it's going to go down, and their everyday life is getting harder. It becomes more difficult to combine work and family, and women are the ones who have to pay the highest price. So the government is in the brink of ideological freedom to be allowed to fill the shopping bag with new clothes on a Sunday, but you don't take over the freedom of the 350,000 employees in the trade in goods needed to be with the family on Sundays. Does the Council not agree that women will be the hardest hit if they are allowed to open Sunday shops?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1731	As I said in my reply, there will be no suggestion in this period to allow open Sunday shops. That's what I said, and that's what the government stands for. The question is: if we're going to do this – because we haven't eliminated the issue, and I think it's going to be a more important and important issue as the world changes – how are we going to get a good decision-making basis? We have put down a sample to deliver in the autumn of 2017. The Committee shall have representatives from, among others: LO, at Trade and Office, as you would imagine – precisely because they are busy with the members they organize – can also get that perspective. Finally, I would like to add, as I have also said, that Norway is not closed on Sundays. I'm sure there's a lot of women working in Norwegian garden centers. I'm sure there's a lot of women working in Norwegian Brustad arches. There are also a lot of people working in areas of social life where you need to be open on Sundays, for example. in parts of the health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1740	Since it is the Minister of Knowledge who answers this question, I want to take a different perspective. Once you have discussed this matter before, you have often pushed the students in front of you. The government has said that it is nice that the students have had the opportunity to make a few extra dollars on Sundays as well. The SSB's figures show that six out of ten students work alongside the studies. My question to the Minister of Knowledge in this matter is: What will the Council of State say to, for example. The NTNU students in Trondheim, who with government policy have to spend several hours behind the box on, for example. Note on the City South than they have the opportunity to spend at the reading room on the Glöshaugen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1749	I have never heard that we have compulsory work during the studies in Norway. Taking part-time jobs during the studies in Norway is a matter for many people, but it is entirely voluntary. If I had been asked about it, I would say: Now it's good news, for the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party start the escalation to eleven months of study support. That means that next year the students get paid NOK 6000 more than they got before. During the last government, students received the price rise, but none of the wealth growth in society. With this government, the students have followed wage developments, and with this cooperation majority, we are now also starting the process of stepping up 11 months of study support. I think there'll still be someone who wants to work, maybe even in Brustad-Bua on Sundays, but there'll be a better chance of studying a little bit more and getting a little more money with this majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1758	The size goes back to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1766	‘From 1 January 2017, the fishing industry will have to deal with a sharp increase in red tape and reporting. Will the Council of State ensure that they did not notify the reinforcements of the record keeping obligations under the landing regulations as from 1 January 2017?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1773	I recorded yesterday that the head of the Business Committee, the representative Pollestad, has been at home and campaigned for election and used violent words and expressions about what's going on with resource registration, because that's what the landing regulations are about. When we took over in government in 2013, there was also a report on the table showing that there was a risk of extensive fraud in the fisheries sector. Hence, this regulation came at the beginning, which is simply a resource registration. Then I get a little in doubt – when I hear the representative Pollestad at the NRK – about whether the Center Party is familiar with the process that has gone over two years, and what adjustments this government has made after meetings and dialogue with the industry. We have made extensive adjustments. So this is a regulation that is necessary for us to have a joint registration of our common resources. I thought the Center Party was busy about that, but the way I interpret it now, the Center Party will not control our resources – no resource registration – and in addition, the Center Party wants free fishing for boats less than 11 meters. It's unprofessional to me. It's clear that when we have 220,000 landings per year, I think it's right that we get a resource registration, and that's what we're about to do. It is still the case that the undersigned have a dialogue with the industry. Last week I had a meeting with Seafood Norway, and adjustments are still needed. I would like to take this list that goes on adaptations that have been made and where we have met the industry, among other things. has a turnover of less than 2 million. kr has been simplified. If you fish 200 kilos a week, you're exempt. We have made adjustments in the form of a species distribution sample scheme. We have made an exemption arrangement for minor receipts regarding banknote writing. That's how I can keep going. The list is very long, but that's exactly what's important. When you're going to have that kind of resource registration, for which I think it's a large political majority, it's important that you have a dialogue with the industry all the way, and I've had that all year long. That's what you've had since the regulation was on the table in the first round. That dialogue shall continue. It is clear that all these adjustments are designed to simplify in the long term. It may not be the case that the centre lot wishes to have one control officer on the berth on each individual receipt less than 220000 landings 24 hours a day 7 days a week. That's what I call abuse of funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1786	I'm very surprised how big a word goes into this discussion. Of course, it is one for resource control. There must be a solution when reporting on the boat and on the kaikant. The Minister for Fisheries here states that a process of processing through the factory or the reception must record and report to the authorities approximately every time a fish is caught. I have visited and talked to Pelagia, with Fonn, with Sirevaag – a number of businesses, and they shake their heads over what has been proposed here. It says when one boasts that if one receives less than 200 kilograms a week, one escapes. I believe that even if there have been changes, the Minister of Fisheries must see that this is one of the time's red tapes of the Norwegian fishing industry, and I ask whether it is still going to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1793	It is still the case that the fishing boat reports. It's the way to control the Kaia. And my question is going to be closest – even though I know it's the Stortinge that asks me: what is the Center Party actually wanting? Do you want to have an inspector on the pia 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to check? It's interesting to get answers. In addition, when you think about journalism and currencyisation, exceptions have been made along the way. The industry has met on several points with regard to currency and the finished product, with the separation of catches, with the finalisation in the case of dry fish, cuttlefish, etc. Many adaptations have been made in this area. I think – with respect to reporting – that the head of the nutrition committee might have been up-to-date.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1798	It's right as it's said, that the Storting is asking questions, and there's no doubt that changes have been made in the course of the process. But when the starting point is so bad, it doesn't make any sense to touch it. Well, one must have controls on the berth and on the boat, and it has one today, and one may have more frequent controls than today. But the Minister of Fisheries has as his starting point that everyone is a villain, and that the only option then is to control everyone. No, we don't have to control everyone. However, we cannot save the Directorate of Fisheries for work and then send the whole burden to the fishing industry – large and small. I've met a number of companies, and I want to meet more people. But there is a clear signal that one has received: this is one of the largest bureaucratisations that the Norwegian fishing industry has experienced. It comes with a Fisheries Minister from the Progress Party who is also standing in the Storting and wholeheartedly defending it, and then my question is: What has happened to the Anti-Burma Crime Party Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1805	I have now used two rounds to tell you that I have adjusted this regulation to a much greater degree of simplification for the industry – just in contact with the industry. I'm still in dialogue with the industry. There may still be simplifications here that I haven't discovered yet, but that I might be able to adjust in place. Besides, I think it's very interesting that the Center Party is so deeply concerned about the bureaucracy in the field of fisheries, which I don't think will increase. This will be done with the proposal of the Centre Party on free fishing for boats below 11 metres. Then we will have a comprehensive bureaucracy and a lack of control of our common resources. But if the Center Party had been as concerned with the bureaucracy in agriculture as they are now suddenly in the fisheries sector, we could have an interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1810	The size then goes back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1818	This question, from Kari Henriksen to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1823	‘In the years in which this government has been responsible, we have experienced, among other things, a general strike, the withdrawal of disabled people’s associations from sample work, and a high level of resistance from professional organisations that do not believe to be heard, including in the case of unemployment. Continuously, it appears that the government has a lack of willingness to listen to professional organisations is deliberate policy. What is the reason for this lack of cooperation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1830	The government is committed to facilitating an organised working life and a well-functioning tripartite cooperation. The government wants to have dialogue with all the organisations in the world of work. This is also followed up in the ministry's work on concrete issues and through the dialogue with the social partners in various areas. The government has broad cooperation with the social partners, including: through the Government's Contact Committee and the Employment and Pension Policy Council. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I regularly meet the main social organisations in formal and informal contexts. I feel that it is a mutual will to listen to each other. For the government, it is a deliberate policy to invite to cooperation and to hear the views of the parties. In 2014, the government and the social partners signed a new agreement on inclusive employment. We listened to the parties' input and agreed to implement simplifications in the follow-up of sick-seekers by companies. The authorities and the parties have mutually committed each other to focus more on prevention and to include more people in the labour market. We work with the parties on the preparation of a new public service pension. In 2015, the government presented the strategy against the crime of working life, which was developed in close dialogue with the main organisations. In January 2016, we held a summit between the Prime Minister and the parties. The strategy is further pursued, inter alia: in the Government's Contact Committee. Before the summer we entered into a cooperation agreement with the parties to establish a rapid path into the working life of refugees who are close to the labour market. And the government will also invite the parties to work in the follow-up to the Working Time Committee. The authorities, professional organisations and employers’ organisations have particularly close cooperation in vulnerable sectors where there is a high risk of unprofessional employment and labour crime. As under all governments, there will be issues where there is disagreement. In several cases, the social partners will also have different views between themselves. The government may make priorities other than those desired by organisations, but such disagreements do not threaten the basic will for cooperation that characterises Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1847	I hear the list is long, and I think it's also a long list of examples of not having listened to the trade movement. Listening and working together is not about having statistics about meetings. It is about something that is important for the Workers' Party, and it is about developing new policies in cooperation with the parties involved. It is something that creates new and better solutions, and it is something that builds trust and reduces the level of conflict. We have heard examples in today's Question Time dealing with precisely the lack of cooperation and the lack of interaction that we have many examples on the part of the government. Does the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs see that the government's failure to cooperate effectively can create unnecessary conflicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1852	I totally disagree with that premise. The list I framed was not a statistics of completed meetings. It was a presentation of different areas of cooperation in which we agreed on important policies in the labour market. Including working life – the IA Agreement – is one area; work on labour crime is another area in which we have jointly come up with solutions whereby the parties in different areas undertake to do their part of the task of addressing common challenges. We are now working on public occupational pension. The parties sit together to find a good new public service pension, to do the rest of the job that was not completed in the previous round. So again, this isn't about statistics on completed meetings. These are real political discussions between the authorities and the parties where we need to find good solutions for the common good. You don't agree on everything, but the fact that you don't agree doesn't mean you haven't listened.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1859	I see that in some areas – fortunately, I say – there is cooperation on important structures in Norwegian policy, but we have examples that led, among other things. to a general strike, and the precursors of it were changes to the abortion law. We have a conversion of fishing offices with us, where trustees had heard nothing about the structural change. We have changes to the court structure proposed in the Ministry of Justice's area, which would be carried out without consulting the trade unions and the trustees. We have the University of Agder – a funding scheme was launched as a new funding structure for the education sector, but the university was not even asked for a change in the basic funding of the university. We have the Working Environment Act, the 70-year limit, the rules of leave and temporary posts. Bureaucratism and expert focus seem to be more important for government than contact with trade union movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1864	Common to these matters is that there has been a different view of how they should be resolved. Several of them are in other areas than mine as well. Much of the disunity or unrest that is going on outside may also be due to disagreement in political decisions taken here. I remember myself that when you were going to move state supervision out of Oslo, there was a lot of noise, a lot of trouble, also among the employees. The size wanted at the time to move out state supervision based on considerations that the Storting felt were important. Similarly, it is also possible to say about the reform of higher education, police reform and community reform. There are also other considerations that have been important, including: for this hall. In these days, Stortinget is dealing with a big news about Nav, where my whole starting point is to delegate responsibility and authority downwards in the organisation. I hope the Storting is in on it. The employees themselves want it, and I hope that the Storting joins in what is being presented there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1869	We go back to the normal order of the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1877	‘In 2013, a young Lithuanian was injured after a few days of underpaid work in Norway and turned 70 pst. disabled but not yet compensated for occupational injury. The state attorney charged a new investigation. The Labour Inspectorate had not checked the matter well enough. The Occupational Insurers’ Association refers to a special rule in the EEA legislation that it does not fall under the Norwegian Occupational Insurers’ Act. Does the Council of State consider this to be a situation worthy of Norway, or will she now reconsider the government's previous stop in the work of a new law on occupational injury?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1884	With regard to work on reforming the area of occupational injury, I should like to begin by pointing out that there are currently two schemes in the field of occupational injury for the same purpose. It is the specific rules of the Swedish Social Security Act that are enforced by the State of Labour and Welfare, and it is the Act on Occupational Insurers' Insurance that is enforced by the employer's insurance company. The purpose of the scheme is to ensure full compensation for workers in the event of occupational injuries and diseases. After the Vocational Injury Committee presented its investigation in 2004, a reform of the area of occupational injury was carried out for many years to come, with the aim of bringing together today's two schemes, both legal and organisational. Over these years, the department investigated several possible alternatives, and the matter was being consulted several times – three times I think it was out for consultation. A preliminary result of this work was the presentation of Prop. 193 L for 2012–2013 in the autumn of 2013, immediately after the election. The proposal put forward proposals for a new law on insurance against occupational injury with substantive rules on the right to compensation in the event of injury at work. It was also given a review of how the area is meant to be organised and administered. The proposition was based on the establishment of an independent public-sector unit — a work injury unit — to deal with and decide on the claim for compensation under new law. In my view, the occupational injury area could have been organised more smoothly than it is today. At the same time, I am of the opinion that a fundamental reorganisation of the area of occupational injury should mean a clear improvement compared to the present system. Furthermore, I believe that a change in the area of occupational injury should have the broad support of the social partners, for whom the occupational injury system is actually in favour. Without such a connection, any new system will not be robust enough to last over time. I record that in the work on this matter it has been difficult to reach agreement with the parties on a agreed solution. A comprehensive investigation has been carried out in this case without having been able to find a future solution that has been agreed upon. In my view, there is also reason to point out in this context that, despite certain weaknesses, today's systems of occupational injury are mainly functioning according to the purpose and purpose of the scheme. In conclusion, I point out that in the preliminary question there is a specific case in which a young Lithuanian was injured during work in Norway in 2013. However, it has not been stated that this case would have another outcome, even if we had at that time had a new occupational injury regime instead of the current two schemes, because here comes the EEA legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1903	The specific matter is, as everyone understands, the Lithuanian youth Ramunas Gudas, which is thus damaged for life. Three years have passed since the accident, he is still standing on a bare ground, and after first having recognised liability, suddenly the Occupational Insurers' Association turned around and thought that this accident at work does not fall under the rules of the Occupational Injury Insurance Act. The law states that non-resident workers in Norway are included in the regulation that a foreign enterprise that is obliged to pay an employer’s fee is included. Does that mean that we have a code of professional injury that is contrary to the EEA Agreement, or is the Occupational Insurance Association wrong? If this is the case that our law is contrary to the EEA agreement, it should be another argument that it is time for a new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1908	It is difficult to comment on an individual matter that I do not know the details of, but as far as I understand it, there are different rules when a worker has been sent from the EEA territory under the EEA Agreement. When the employee is posted, it is the domestic insurance schemes and social security schemes that apply. Whether this person was sent or not, I do not know, but there are different laws that relate to it, and therefore, as I also said in my first answer, it is uncertain whether a new law would have changed the realities of this case. I think we agree that it is important that we have good occupational injury systems that take care of workers in these kinds of situations. What was the matter when it came to the proposal for a new law was that there was a great deal of disagreement about what this would look like – the parties disagreed. What the Government of Stoltenberg put forward was, as far as I can account for it, a continuation of the right in force. Neither funding nor organisation was clear – a lot of work was left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1915	I think that the Council of State and I agree that this is a difficult area, but that it is difficult does not mean that it must end up in a paralysis of action. This government has said that executive power is a special feature, and that is how we need non-resident labour. We know that foreign workers are particularly vulnerable when they become victims of unprofessional employers, and the Gudas case shows that when the accident is over, you can become quite innocent. Now it's been three years. Hopefully, this government will have its operating period for one year, so I will use the opportunity to ask: When can the Stortinget expect a proposal for a new legislation in the field of occupational injury from this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1920	I find it interesting to hear the representative, Christoffersen, talk about implementing power, when her own government – after twelve years of work – stated that the law was being passed on, and neither the organizational nor the financial aspects of the law had been clarified. I guess that doesn't exactly testify to the particular efficiency of that either, I would say. My starting point has been that it has been complicated. The parties have disagreed between themselves, it has been difficult to reach agreement, and as far as I understand, today's system works quite well. I have also not received any signals – or at least no initiative has been taken towards me – that this should be changed. But for all intents and purposes, I'm open to you being able to do that. However, a starting point must be that the parties can also arrive at a mutually agreed solution that can be presented so that the arrangement is overdue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1928	‘Retired workers, apprentices and temporary workers are particularly vulnerable to occupational injury in the construction industry. A new report from the Labour Inspectorate and STAMI shows that these groups are involved in 27 pst. of the 176 accidents analysed. Injury rates at under 25 years of age are higher than in other age groups. Does the Government see that the government is pursuing a labour-life policy that can lead to multiple work injuries and will it take action to reverse these developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1935	Work to reduce accidents and deaths in Norwegian working life has been in progress for a long time. Among other things, the Labour Inspectorate has recently implemented an initiative aimed at all those who are new to the labour market, i.e. young workers and start-ups. Furthermore, enhanced cooperation between the authorities and industry actors was initiated on the initiative of the parties to the construction industry in 2014. All parties have signed a ‘charter for a harmless construction industry’. As part of this tripartite cooperation, the authorities, at the Labour Inspectorate and the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, have undertaken to draw up documentation on the development of industrial damage and accidents in the construction industry. As part of this, a recent report was presented that details the causes of 176 accidents that the Labour Inspectorate followed up through supervision last year. This report is also referred to by the representative of Bjørdal. The report is an in-depth analysis of the causes of the accidents and cannot say anything about the development of industry over time. According to the analysis, the serious accidents are often linked to the lack of systematic HMS work in the establishment. Since 2014, the SSB has published statistics on accidents in the labour market. From 2014 to 2015, the number of accidents recorded in the construction industry has actually decreased. In 2015, there were also fewer fatal accidents at work, with six recorded fatal accidents against 11 fatal accidents the year before. This is a happy development, but we can't settle down on it. There are still challenges related to the data material behind these statistics. This is something the authorities are actively working on to improve. The analyses and statistics we have produced in recent years provide us with a better basis for working knowledge-based and effective in reducing work injuries and accidents in the workplace. International research and knowledge from surveys in this country shows that young workers, foreign workers, temporary workers and hired workers are generally more at risk of accidents in the workplace. It is therefore particularly important to obtain information and guidance for these groups and their employers. It is important to establish that the main responsibility of the undertakings is to do what is possible to avoid accidents. The labour inspectorate shall assist by means of supervision and guidance. The Labour Inspectorate also continues its follow-up to new ones in the workplace and, together with the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, actively participates in tripartite cooperation in the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1954	I thank you for your answer. The problem of using the term ‘labour accidents’, as the Council of State consistently does, is that it implies that no one is responsible for what has happened. Experience shows that someone is responsible, or should take responsibility. That is why, in my view, the term ‘work damage’ is much more cover-up, and that is what we need to do. For me, it is obvious that the government does not take safety in the workplace seriously. The strong weakening of labour law does not contribute to a safer and more serious working life. The law is weak as a protection law, and that is why the Labour Inspectorate went against the government's proposals. I see that the Minister of Labour is now upset by the lack of a HMS card in a play in Dagbladet this week. It's important. But in the playoff she says nothing about what she wants to do. She does not put a single penny on the table of the etats that form the frontline in the fight against unprofessionalism and crime in the workplace. Had the government been a handball, they would have been blown off for passive game a long time ago. Why is there so little going on in the government to stop this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1963	Yeah, where do you start? As I say in my post, the number of accidents has fallen. We're all going to be happy for that, but as I also said, there's no reason to lean back and think it's going to solve itself for that reason. The government is engaged in the fight against unprofessional actors. We're committed to combating work-life crime. That is also why we have strengthened the budgets of the Labour Inspectorate every year, and that we have put this work high on our agenda. Many people are responsible for accident prevention, but the employer has the primary responsibility to ensure that employees are safe at work, and then it is the responsibility of the supervisory authority to follow up the employer’s work. I can also mention that we have now revised an HMS regulation, which also clarifies the responsibility of the employer to take the safety of their employees seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1972	A more serious working life with less social dumping and labour crime leads to a safer working life with fewer work injuries. For the Workers' Party, these contexts are completely open, but quite often there is reason to ask questions about whether the government also understands these contexts. We have recently seen that the Riksrevision in strong order criticised the government for "weak and little deterrent action against occupational crime", in the report presented in June 2016. Could the Council of State be a little more concrete and ambitious in its answer to the following questions: What will the government actually do to strengthen its control systems and to strengthen its investigation by the police? What's in the Government's toolbox?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1979	I think we all agree that the Working Environment Act should be a protection law. It is today, it should be tomorrow, and it should be for the future, precisely because we are concerned that workers' needs and safety should be taken care of when they are at work. So there's no doubt about it. There can be no doubt that this government is putting the fight against the crime of working life high on its agenda. Through the development of a separate strategy and an action plan together with the parties, we have a number of measures to make working life safer for our employees. We've set up five anti-employment crime centres where the most important agencies work together. And what both the police, the Nav, the Labour Inspectorate and the people involved say is that when you put each of your tools in a common toolbox, the work is also much more powerful, the supervision is more effective, and more unprofessional. This is what the government is also going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1989	‘The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, considers that Norwegian public service obligations are contrary to the Posting of Workers Directive and the EEA Agreement and have now opened infringement proceedings against Norway which may end in the EFTA Court. A judgment in the Supreme Court in 2013 states that employers are to pay travel, diet and lodging fees for posted EEA workers in the yard industry. What will the government do to keep the conclusion of the Supreme Court standing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e1996	This is an important but very complicated matter with relatively long history, which the government takes very seriously. Determination of pay and working conditions is, as a general rule, the responsibility of the parties through collective bargaining and collective bargaining agreements. Under the public service scheme, Tariffs may provide that the wage and working conditions of the collective bargaining agreement shall apply to all in a particular industry. Thus, a general regulation is based on collective agreements. This case started, as Andersen's representative also knows well, by the fact that nine courts with the support of the NHO and Norwegian Industry raised a case against the State at Tarifnemnda in 2009. The claim was that the notice for the shipbuilding and yard industries was contrary to the EEA Agreement. In 2013, the Supreme Court, as represented by Andersen, unanimously agreed to comply with the EEA law requirements on public procurement, including requirements for the recovery of travel, subsistence and lodging expenses. Following the loss in the Supreme Court, the NHO complained to ESA claiming that Norwegian law is contrary to the EEA Agreement. ESA reached its preliminary conclusion in letter of 10 July 2015 and has now come up with a formal letter of formal notice concluding that publicising the coverage of travel, diet and lodging expenses is contrary to the Posting Directive. As I said in the introduction, this is a complicated and demanding matter. Now we're going to do a thorough evaluation of the opening letter before we answer ESA. I am concerned that we should take care of the best in Norwegian working life, that it is the responsibility of the parties to ensure good pay and working conditions, and that we ensure that. Now we have two months before we answer ESA to their enquiry, and in this work I will also involve the parties to see how we can best solve this question for the best of Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2015	I thank you for your answer. It is clear that it is an extensive work to go into and take care of Norwegian interests in this matter – and perhaps the most important thing the Council of State said, as I am pleased about that, is that the parties should be involved in that work. The parties have also been involved in new provisions relating to the implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive with which the EU has worked, and which I clearly see strengthen the Norwegian position on the need to ensure local pay and working conditions. My question really concerns this: I hope the Council of State understands that our discussion about the work environment law and other things has sometimes led us to give a bit of consideration to the content of the cooperation with the parties, so if the Council of State could clarify the involvement of the parties, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2024	As I said in the introduction, we will reply to this letter by the end of the year. We want to work with the parties, that we sit down together around the table to see if it's possible to find a common solution. This is a very important issue for employees' organisations and employers' organisations, but it is also important for Norwegian working life as such, and I feel confident that we will be able to work together to find a good solution that serves all the parties in a good way. I'll do what I can to involve the parties, listen to what the parties have to say, and then I hope we can also find a unified solution that strengthens Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2029	It is clear that it is important for Norwegian working life to be able to maintain Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norway. It is important for employees, and it is important for the serious employers in Norway not to be competed with by unprofessional players with lower pay and working conditions. That is why we are concerned about this matter. We have spent a long time depending on foreign workers coming to Norway and doing useful work, but the prerequisite for us is that this happens under Norwegian pay and work conditions. Finally, I can assure the Council of State that we are going to follow critically – and then I say not criticise – but critically follow up on the cooperation that is now going to take place between the parties, and hope that this, as in other issues of society, is such that if there is a will, there is a way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2036	I can fully agree to that. As I have said, I will do what I can to ensure that we get to a good process with the parties, and that we arrive at a position that will be good for Norwegian interests in total. We're going to answer ESA within two months.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2044	‘Without respect for tripartite cooperation, the government has trampled through major weaknesses in the Working Environment Act. The changes were wrongly justified by the need for more flexibility and modernisation. In the programme proposal for the Right, we now read that they will go even further. This time, too, the justification is ‘increased flexibility’ and ‘modern work environment legislation’. The Council of State is the Supreme Spokesman of Labour Policy. What further concrete deteriorations in the Working Environment Act is what she considers necessary next period?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2051	Let me start by saying that I have great respect for the tripartite cooperation and Norwegian working life. The Government pursues an active labour and welfare policy in order to maximise participation in the labour market, where cooperation between the parties is central. The Government has been given the approval of the Stortingen to introduce some easier access to temporary employment and some cautious, but substantial, changes in working time. An important objective of the amendment to the rules on temporary employment is to facilitate access to the labour market for persons with difficulty in entering. The government wants more people to have a chance to show up at work. This will, for example: may relate to young people with low education, new arrivals and persons with reduced working capacity. In general, we have a labour market where jobseekers and employers find each other without the assistance of the authorities. However, it is important to use labour market measures as a targeted tool for those who have problems getting a job on their own. The changes in the Working Environment Act also mean that the possibilities of long-term temporary employment are more limited than before. In other words, a tightening was also made which means that the person who has had a continuous temporary employment in the Vicariat or on a general basis for more than three years is entitled to permanent employment, compared to four years earlier. In times of great need for transition to Norwegian working life, it is also important to facilitate the creation of new jobs by enterprises. General access to temporary employment is intended to facilitate the recruitment of a start-up enterprise, even if they are uncertain about their future labour needs. Several research projects have been launched to follow developments. In this work, close cooperation with the social organisations has been established. Many of them also carry out their own studies in order to obtain the best possible knowledge of the effects of changes in the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2064	I notice that the Council of State does not answer my question. It was about what measures she now thinks are necessary to further weaken the labour-environment law. It really falls into the pattern I have now observed at the Council of State in this round: she does not answer the questions she is being asked. It is probably related to the fact that it is difficult to respond specifically to them, because this is a very difficult and bad case for the government. She again expresses this with great respect for the tripartite cooperation. Then the question is, why does the government implement the measures they have taken, contrary to what a collective trade union movement says, if she respects this? I think that's of great importance. In addition, the effect of the temporaryity is now such that the use of temporaryity is increasing, and permanent employment is decreasing, and it creates clear uncertainty in the labour market, not the security of the next generation. I would like the Council of State to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2073	The representative of Kolberg’s first question was about the right programming process. We're in a program process, just like most other games. Now the first draft is out at the hearing in the organisation. The final draft is to be debated at the National Council of the Right in the spring. I am pleased to – and to discuss working life policy. My starting point is that we need to be able to modernise and further develop our employment policies in such a way that we still need to safeguard the needs and rights of workers, but we also need to safeguard the needs of workers – not just employers – and the needs of citizens for good services in a new era. I do not think that the solutions of the past will solve the needs of the future. Life patterns change, quality requirements change, knowledge changes, technological change changes. This means that we need to change in labour policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2080	To be honest, once again, the Council of State does not respond to what she is asked for, and we are told that she does not want or cannot. However, modernisation of working life leading to a general strike in Norway should call on the attention of the Council of State and the government to the fact that it is possible to have wild roads here if you want to have active tripartite cooperation and respect for professional mobility. But that's what you do, and you get on the track that the right-wing parties in Europe have done, that's to liberalize working life in such a way that it's the workers who pay the price for what they call modernisation. This is what the Minister of Labour should take responsibility for, given the creation of instability in the Norwegian labour market for the future, thereby weakening the rights of workers and the basis for good and stable value creation. That is wrong policy, and we are not given an answer as to why they are implementing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2085	If we look at temporary employment: the majority of those temporarily employed come from completed studies or are in studies in combination with jobs. 30 pst. of the temporary staff come from leave of absence. 50 pst. by temporary staff, become permanent staff within one year. That's 6 pst. of the establishments which have used temporary employment. We see that the vast majority of temporary employees come from studies or unemployment. It can't be negative that they get a chance into the world of work, at a time when employers may hesitate to hire because there are demanding times. Many are afraid to hire, but through this scheme there are more people who want to take the chance of hiring than it would otherwise have been. I am concerned that we should include those who are out of work, into the workplace. This turns out to be an important way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2095	‘Unfortunately, the government’s objective of increasing temporary staff seems to have been successful. In the last year, according to the SSB, there have been 25 000 temporary staff in Norway — an increase of 12 pst. Is the Council of State satisfied with this level, or does she still feel that there is a need for more people to be temporarily employed in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2100	The government's aim is to maximise access to the labour market and to have as many permanent employment as possible. But as I said in my previous reply to the representative Kolberg, we see that the majority of those temporarily employed come from studies, or they work temporarily in combination with studies. 30 pst. come from leave. We see an increase in temporary employment, among other things. Because we have an increase in the number of apprentices, and I think that's good. For many employees, temporary employment is a step on the way to a permanent job. 50 pst. are in regular employment after one year, and for the enterprise temporary employment is an opportunity they can use when temporary workers, extra assistance or when there is uncertainty about the future labour demand. The SSB labour force survey for the third quarter shows that there is an increase compared to the same quarter last year. The number of temporary jobs is the highest in the health and social sectors, followed by trade in goods and education. According to the Labour Force Survey, the use of temporary employment is increasing most in the industries that already have a certain proportion of temporary employment. The survey does not provide information on the legal basis on which you are employed. Therefore, it is not possible to say for certain whether the increase is due to the new provision of the Labour Environment Act or other conditions, such as: the economic situation. What we know is that many temporary employees report that they are employed as temporary workers. When permanent employees are absent due to e.g.: maternity leave, establishments need a temporary employee. Apprentices and young people who are employed as trainees are also included in the statistics on temporary staff, as I mentioned. There may be many and different reasons why public and private employers have temporary employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2111	The Council of State is probably very well aware that the OECD is very clear in its conclusions — that increased access to more temporary staff does not provide more jobs and that the proportion of permanent jobs is reduced. There is a particularly unfortunate situation when the number of temporary staff is increasing, and the level of employment is falling at the same time. I think I hear the council argue with the so-called springboard effect, as it is often called. It's bastant rejected as a real argument, also by the OECD. So why doesn't the government take over the facts from so competent an international team?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2116	Temporary employees are between 1.5 and 2 pst. It's a relatively small proportion, and that's how we want it to be. It is obvious that for most businesses it will be an advantage that manning is stable. Any enterprise wishing to establish itself in a market, which wants to develop, which wants to grow, must have permanent employees to whom one can develop the skills, who are engaged and loyal in their business. But from time to time, temporary employment is needed, for various reasons. We now see from the West, where companies don't dare to hire because it's uncertain what the market will look like in a few months, and then they take people in temporarily. It's better that someone gets the opportunity to try it out a little bit than that you can't try it at all. As I have said several times now: the majority of those who are temporarily employed come from completed studies, from unemployment, or have jobs in combination with studies, and half of them get permanent jobs after one year, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2125	I hear what the Council of State says, but at the same time I record that the Council of State seems to be little concerned or concerned that we can actually get a labour society in Norway. Solubility in working life makes it much more difficult for people. Many are young people in the start-up phase, who depend not least on income and jobs in order to obtain housing. One also often sees the connection between temporaryity and a poor working environment – I must stress that I am not saying that it is always the rule, but one sees many cases of it – which unfortunately also has no focus from the government. I think what I hear from the government team and the state council here today is little uplifting considering what I consider to be a relatively serious situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2130	Now I didn't realize if there was any question or if there was a comment, but we agree: no one wants a layman's society. No one wants it. Everyone, not least the government, wants permanent employment to be the general rule in Norwegian working life. We want to be employed on good, safe terms and that employers should be serious and take good care of their employees. That is why we are also working closely with the social partners on that very issue. But we're talking about a relatively small proportion that's temporarily employed, and we see that very many of them come from a situation where they have little experience, and many of them may have gaps in the CV or have been out of work for a while. They enter the labour market, and most of them get permanent employment after a relatively short period of time. But we also have a few more research budgets going on, so we follow this development closely with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2138	‘With record unemployment and, among other things, very demanding conditions in the oil industry, the problems of use and illegal use of hired labour are further updated. Given this more demanding situation, does the Council of State realise that the removal of the instrument of collective redress was a wrong decision and will it therefore take the initiative to reconsider the decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2145	Let me first say that the unemployment rate is not too high – but that it is too high, we agree. A lot also indicates that we are now going to meet brighter times. Nav gets fewer notices of termination. Nav has several registered job vacancies. It seems that the vacancy is now going out and going down. The availability is lower in 14 counties compared to the same time last year, and that's good. On the issue of collective redress, it was introduced on 1 July 2013. The collective tribunal allowed trade unions to bring an action against an employer on the legality of the rental without the consent of the lessee and against his wishes. The starting point and general rule of our legal system is that the matter is involved, even deciding whether a person wants to pursue a case in the judicial system. Both during the consultation and during the deliberation process, there was considerable disagreement about the introduction of such a rule. The collective tribunal was repealed with effect from 1 July 2015. A disputed system has been removed, which several actors have pointed out to break with the basic principles of our legal system. What was particularly pointed out as problematic was that the rule, as I have already mentioned, opened up so that trade unions could raise a case without the consent of the lessor and against his wishes. Not all tenants want an action relating to their own lease-in relationship. This may in particular apply if proceedings are brought by a trade union to which the lessee is not himself a member. Furthermore, a central reason for collective redress was that the lessee should release the burden of legal proceedings. In any event, the lessor's explanation of the court will often be necessary in such cases. The fact that the lessee is central to the court will therefore reduce the value of not going to court itself. It was also pointed out that trade unions in any case have other procedural instruments at their disposal if they wish to support a member of the Court of Justice, including: by declaring so-called aid to the parties. In addition, the trade union may undertake to support both members and outside workers professionally and financially in the context of an action. It may also be added that in the two years in which the rules were in force, the court of appeal was scarcely used. I tried to find traces of it. I can't find it – it doesn't have to mean it's not used, but I can't find any trace of it. This too may indicate that the need for the scheme is not great. I do not see the need to reconsider the decision to repeal this rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2162	This was a rule that was strongly sought by many trade unions, precisely because people who were in a tenure that could be assumed to be illegal – was between bark and wood, so to speak – could face a difficult personal and financial situation if they were persecuted against the employer. However, it would be that both employees and we as society would have an interest in the discovery and termination of that kind of relationship. In the absence of even better ideas, this was a proposal that many trade unions and trust-chosen feel could work and have an effect. I don't see that what the Council of State is presenting here and her answer corresponds to the challenges that this law was trying to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2169	‘In the absence of better ideas, this was what you came up with’. Yeah, now we came up with something a lot better, I think. Among other things, we strengthen alert protection. We have consulted several proposals to strengthen alert protection in Norway. It has been well received outside. One of the proposals we have is: that we should integrate into the alert system and that their anonymity should be ensured. In this way, it may be an important measure for rentals to come up with critical relationships. It is probably true that several trade unions asked for this, but at the same time it is in principle worrying that one should be able to go to collective action without that matter being involved, and perhaps even against his will. What some trade unions – maybe they were all, I'm not sure – thought was a good idea, got a lot of resistance when it was introduced, and after it had existed for two years, hardly anyone – if any – had used the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2176	I just want to stress that I said ‘in the absence of even better proposals’. That's what they say. I believe again that what the Council of State here is proposing is not responding to the challenge. The use of illegally hired labour at a workplace, yes, it is the individual employee who is in the suspected illegal relationship who is exposed to it. But it is clear that it exposes the entire workplace, the safety, the pay system, the safety of the other individual workers and the entire Norwegian working life to risk. It is precisely in the kind of thinking that one sees that it should be the law of trade unions to raise the matter collectively to try it and determine whether the relationship is illegal or not. I think the Council of State should agree that we have a common interest in revealing this kind of illegal lease-in relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2183	We have an absolute interest in detecting illegal rentals, unprofessional operators and unprofessional businesses that exploit employees. It's just the imagination that limits what many are exposed to. There is also a background for the government to strengthen work on labour crime with the parties. That is the background for us, among other things. set up these five anti-employment crime centres. Supervision is important. Notifications are important. One concrete measure to identify the background of the leased-in is not least the introduction of the HMS card, which is a good tool which is also sought by the industry and which will also provide good results in identifying who is allowed to be at work and who does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2191	‘During the last three years, the rights of employees have been impaired. Possibility of more overtime imposed, longer working days without HMS assessments and more temporary employees are some examples. In its consultation opinion on the Working Environment Act, the Labour Inspectorate wrote: ‘The proposal thus appears to hamper our efforts to reduce accidents, social dumping and labour market crime.’ Does the Council of State consider that the labour market has become safer or more unsafe for the individual since she became the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2198	Let me just first clarify that the number of overtime hours is the same as before. The employer is responsible for caring for HMS for his employees, and we are now proposing clarifications and restrictions in the regulation to clarify the responsibilities of the employer. The regulation will enter into force on 1 January. Statistics on accidents at work by the Central Bureau show a decline in the number of deaths and accidents in the labour force from 2014 to 2015. In isolation, this may indicate that working life has become safer, but an important reservation must be made that there may be under-reporting of accidents. Work is in progress to strengthen the statistical base on accidents at work. There is no reliable data base to assess the prevalence of social dumping and labour crime. What we know is that the efforts of official control authorities have been significantly strengthened by cross-border cooperation against labour-life crime. It is, as the representative knows, established five co-located units in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Kristiansand and now last in Trondheim. Here the police, the tax administration, the Labour Inspectorate, the Labour and Welfare Act and others work together to make it impossible for the criminal actors in the labour market to continue their activities. This effort also produces good results. In 2015, the Labour Inspectorate carried out nearly 18 000 inspections and achieved significant results in promoting a serious work and health, environment and safety at work. The Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened by new financial resources and new tasks. Their efforts are an important contribution to a safer working life for workers. The surveys carried out among employees also indicate that most people are satisfied with their working situation. The life-cycle survey of the SSB from 2013 shows that nine out of ten workers are very or quite satisfied with their job, and a new living conditions survey will be carried out in 2017. Changes in economic cycle and in business conversion needs may affect workers’ safety experience. The annual Work Life Survey of the YS shows that there are more workers than before who experience that their job is not safe. At the same time, the study shows that most workers meet with a positive willingness to participate in the transition. The need for conversion follows both the challenges in the petroleum-related industries, technological developments and, where appropriate, the development of the sharing economy. The government must keep up-to-date with developments in order to make the necessary adaptations to legislation and other mechanisms to support the needs of the workforce in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2213	I agree with what the Council of State says that employees are positive about conversion – they have always been, and they have worked with it – which is a word the government often uses, but there is not a new situation in the companies. On the subject: The report of the National Audit Office of June this year has been critical of the fight against occupational crime. There is too little supervision, and there is too little competence in the supervisory authorities. Per-Kristian Foss says that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Labour Inspectorate, the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the police need to make more effective use of their cooperation and reaction capabilities. The representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal was concerned about this in questions to the Council of State earlier, but I noticed that he did not receive an answer. How will the government specifically follow up the criticism of the Riksrevision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2222	We follow up on the Riksrevision's comments and comments, there's no doubt about it. I do not feel that the employees of the Labour Inspectorate have a low level of competence, but it is well for the employees of the Labour Inspectorate, as for most of us, that you will always be able to improve, and at a time when crime develops, new methods and new ways of solving the problem will be needed. The supervision of the future will not be the same as the supervision that was carried out a few years ago, precisely because the crime scene has changed so much. It is also the background that it is important for us to set up these centres against the crime of working life, because we see that when each department takes its tools into cooperation and puts them in a common toolbox, there is a positive development – they learn the method of supervision from each other, they learn the form of sanctions from each other, and they learn from each other's way of working. We see that in that way they also reveal more than what they would do separately, and that's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2227	I feel that there is more to the description of what is inside. Clear answers, but cooperation is important, so it's good to bet on it. However, when many employers choose to use unskilled, hired and temporary employees, this group becomes quite large. The enlargement of the EU and Schengen cooperation has greatly increased the number of workers providing services in Norway. This has led to more and more serious work-life crimes, a problem that Stortinget has ordered the Norwegian authorities to counter. Social dumping is one of the main challenges in working life. We are at risk of getting a worse standard for the working environment, where criminal actors can also compete with legally driven businesses. The size underlines that it is important to address this, and not least to be responsible for own acquisitions. This is about political framework conditions. Does the Council of State see the challenges of this development, and how will she deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2234	There is no doubt that the challenge picture is now large. I have heard for myself how the agencies describe the situation in a number of industries, where the hard work against the crime of working life is, because the imagination of unprofessional actors is so great. We have had an increase in labour immigration for a long time because we have had good times in Norway. Now we see a sharp decline in labour migration to Norway. Less coming. This may be due both to the difficulty of getting a job in Norway than before, and also to the improvement of the economic situation in some of the countries from which they come. We are now reviewing our strategy, which we have developed with the parties. The idea is that we should deal with it at the January summit – well – as the Prime Minister heads, together with all the leaders of the relevant agencies. Here we are working with the parties to find out which tools will be most effective and powerful in the fight against labour crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2243	Question 29 has been answered earlier. Thus, the ordinary questionnaire is changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-09.ana.ud533e2257	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like.
