ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e30	Representatives of Sylvi Graham, Kåre Simensen, Gunnar Gundersen, Kenneth Svendsen, Elin Rodum Agdestein and Svein Roald Hansen, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. The spokesman of the Finnish Parliament, Maria Lohela, is on an official visit to Norway. She is present here today at the gallery, and it is a great pleasure to wish her and her delegation welcome to the Parliament. Finland became an independent state on December 6, 1917, and on behalf of the Stortinget, I would like to congratulate the preparations for the 100th anniversary next year, which is in full swing. I hope that guests will have an interesting and pleasant stay here with us, and that the visit will contribute to an even closer cooperation between Norway and Finland, and between our two parliaments. [[Applause from the Chamber]] The representative of Kai Henriksen will present a proposal for a representative – no, the representative of Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e60	Well, we've passed laws on more sex, but I'm a preliminary lady. On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Jorod Asphjell, Knut Storberget, Ruth Grung, Lise Wiik and myself, I am pleased to make a proposal for a representative to change the criminal law on the use of electronic compensation, etc. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e67	The representative, Else-May Botten, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e70	On behalf of Terje Aasland, Odd Omland, Tore Hagebakken and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the establishment of a top industrial centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e75	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e96	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e107	It is nice to have a communicative debate and a pleasant visit from Finland. I think that one of the first committee tours of the municipal and management committee was in this period, just for Finland to learn about their community reform. And if there's anything we can be proud of in the Nordic region, it's the role the municipalities have. The characteristic feature of Nordic municipalities is that they have a great place in democracy and an important role there. Before I deal with the matter itself, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this matter as well. We've had a pretty hectic spring with a lot of big issues in the committee, but because of good cooperation and everyone's standing on, we've managed to give settings on all the important issues. I would also like to thank the Secretary-General of the Committee and the General Secretariat, who have been at least as busy for them, and helped us to put the Storting in place. The municipalities are important, and the municipalities of Norway manage a significant part of the economic resources of the Norwegian economy on behalf of taxpayers. For 2015, the local government sector generated its revenue of 17,5 pst. of GDP of mainland Norway. There is a broad consensus in Norway that the municipal sector has an important role as a foundation for the Norwegian welfare community. In its comments, the Committee stresses the importance of local authorities’ position as the arena for strong local democracy and as the first line for citizens. Local authorities represent the proximity, access and potential of citizens. This is the third municipal proposition made by the Right-front party government. In all the years in which the Progress Party has been in government, the government has put forward a municipal proposition with a good increase in its revenues. This is different from many other countries, where the municipal sector cannot dream of the resources made available to Norwegian municipalities. This year, there will be a good increase in municipalities and municipalities in the country. In the municipal bill, the government proposes to increase the free income by between 3.75 and 4 billion. kr for the autumn. This will give an increase in action space of up to 750 million. kr in addition to commitments and demography and expenditure on pensions. There is no self-order for such numbers. When we see a halved oil price, an increase in unemployment and an increase in asylum, it is not a matter of self-evident that the municipalities in the third consecutive proposition are given an increase at the level of government. The action room of the municipalities: It was predicted in advance of the previous government change that a government with the Right and the Advance Party would starve the Norwegian municipalities. Now we see the contours of the fasit, that the municipalities have had a solid result. The 2015 result is in a special position, and one has to go back to 2006 to find a better result. It also shows that the space for action that we provide for the municipalities, when a subtraction from demography and pensions, has increased compared to this government compared to the last three years of the red-green government. Nevertheless, in the Progress Party, we are clear about conveying that the framework will not extend to absolutely everything that local politicians want. This is always the case, that local politicians have a stronger desire to provide services than is possible. It'll always be like that. Therefore, we suggest that there is an additional room for action, but there is still a need for municipalities to prioritise and operate effectively with the crowns they have. This year, a proposition has also suggested that it may be useful to expect municipalities to be more efficient. We don't see it as a requirement for savings, but we see that if the municipalities are streamlining in line with the state, there is 1.2 billion. kr that the municipalities may retain to strengthen their services. I think it is important to signal this to the municipalities. Because when we see developments, among other things, with municipalities which introduce and increase the taxes on ownership, it is quite clear that municipalities can make greater use of their own possibilities to make them more efficient, rather than just printing and increasing taxes on ownership. Good urban economy is important to ensure welfare services for the inhabitants of the whole country. In the municipal proposal for the current year, I am also pleased that the government is presenting a guideline for the holiday settlement scheme, which is perhaps the scheme in which this committee has been most committed, from a scheme ordered in 2014, to a scheme in place last year. When the government in this proposition presents the guidelines, this committee has really seen traces in Norwegian policy, by putting in place a good holiday waiver scheme for 40 years. It is nice to record that all the parties today are some of the positive comments about the arrangement, although the previous government said that one could have a 20-year holiday settlement scheme, this government delivers a 40-year period. It is very nice that it is made available, and I hope that the county councils seize this possibility. The agreement between Sogn and Fjordane is perhaps the link that has been most mentioned in the comments to the Committee. It clearly states that the arrangements which one has found for that connection should facilitate its implementation. I, who come from a ferry municipality, are of course also pleased with the signal that one should update the cost keys more frequently, so that the ferry companies that get increased costs through new offers will have a greater share of the total cake made available in the future. It is an important signal for all the municipalities that are now considering putting things on offer and are in supply processes linked to new ferries. The 2016 Proposition includes changes in the income system of municipalities. The government party, together with the Left Party, presented a new income system for some time, and that's what the government is putting in, which also joins the majority of the committee today. The new income system does several things, including: updates a key, what to do with even spaces. One also assumes that all local authorities get a sum of money just because they're a municipality. We distribute district funds according to the district index to those who are real districts. If you look at who gets the best out of the new income system per capita, it's Røst municipality that gets the best out. It shows that we are happy to have a district policy, while we are no longer going to give money to central municipalities that choose to be small. There, the income system to which the majority of the population today will join has gone away from the model that has made it directly wretched for municipalities to merge. Now there's an income system that's more fair and goes more in the direction that I think is right. We also found it positive that the government has good dialogue with the municipalities about the income system and this time chose to send it on a ring – something that one did not do in the red-green government when one changed it last time. One of the biggest challenges that municipalities face today is the settlement of refugees. Experience shows that it is particularly demanding to busy single-year-old asylum seekers because there is a group that needs more follow-up than adults. The government will work towards the state budget to find a financing mechanism that will motivate municipalities to bus individual minor asylum seekers, and the government will decide in the government budget whether to move away from the reimbursement scheme and to move on to a fixed system of redundancy. The Progress Party is pleased that the government is working to find better funding solutions to busy several minor asylum seekers in the municipalities. Finally, we are now in the final phase of the municipal reform, where municipal politicians play a leading role. Many municipalities will now have local government meetings in the next few days, where one will take important decisions to create strong welfare municipalities for the future. It's exciting to see how many are together. We follow the local government, a little on web-tv and a little through the media, and it's exciting to cheer up the local politicians who are now laying the foundation for the municipalities in the future. To date, 24 municipalities have decided to merge, 254 additional municipalities are some about a commitment agreement, and 70 municipalities are in negotiations or a distribution phase. So there are exciting processes that happen, and the image that is sometimes drawn in the media that a lot of people say no is not right when you look at how many people actually find together, and how many people actually have a good process in place with their inhabitants to create better municipalities. I think it's important to put in place an appropriate municipal structure that's better suited to today's realities than what was right in 1960. Local authorities have considerably more tasks and responsibilities than they had at the time when the previous municipal structure was established, and it is important that local authorities have the professional environment and the necessary skills to solve the tasks they have and the people they want. I want to wish the local government the best of luck with the main role they play until July 1st.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e142	The Government Parties, together with the Left, have concluded an agreement on changes in the municipal income system. One of the points of agreement is that municipalities should be halved for their basic grants to stimulate the merger of municipalities, as it is called. One of the paradoxical consequences of this change is that municipalities with population between 10 000 and 20 000, which the government's own expert committee considers to be of sufficient size, lose income. At the same time, a new grant is introduced to municipalities that merge and receive more than 10 000 inhabitants. As a result, municipalities that already have more than 10 000 inhabitants are penalised financially, while municipalities that receive more than 10 000 inhabitants by pooling are to be awarded financial premiums. Examples in the Province of Njåstad are Voss and Bømlo. Can the representative of Njåstad explain why municipalities that are already large enough are to be penalised financially, while municipalities that become large enough are to be premiered?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e149	It's hard to have a lecture on the income system in one minute, but I'll try. What has our standard in the income system we have had up to today, as the previous government was the architect behind, is that one allocates large amounts per town hall. On the other hand, 2 billion. kr is allocated per town hall. It turns out that Oslo gets 19 kroner per capita, while Utsira gets over 40,000 kroner per capita. We have said that it is wrong to assign so much per town hall to go to administration. It is better to allocate per capita for service production. Therefore, we move parts of the tips per town hall to the inhabitants, and delight those who have a great need to deliver services. It's people who need services. So the logic behind the new income system is that one will no longer get so much money for administrative services, but rather get more to deliver services to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e156	To the pleasure of the representative of Njåstad's adviser, I intend to ask questions about the attempt at state-funded care for the elderly, an attempt that turns out to be completely unsuccessful. Few municipalities signed up for the experiment, and several of those who were registered have withdrawn. The experiment does not contribute to the strengthening of elderly care or to the provision of better services, but results in municipalities switching to models that are not adapted to local needs and that do not respond to the interests of users. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, proposes that this be concluded in 2017. Does the Progress Party believe that the experiment should be continued despite the negative feedback that has been received and despite the fact that there is no professional evidence that the intention to improve the offer of the experiment to the elderly is going to strike?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e161	I thank you for the question. It is always nice to talk about the Progress Party's model for the elderly care services. It's quite clear that we were expecting several municipalities in Norway to search. When the state makes money available at the top of what is in the municipal sector, I find it strange that out of 428 municipalities there is only a handful who want to get extra money to give to their older people. It's frightening that a lot of municipalities are withdrawing from the experiment because they can no longer cut when it comes to the elderly. This shows a view of care services that we do not share. We would like to invest in the care of the elderly, and therefore we would have believed that several municipalities would make themselves available for an experiment so that they would get extra money to try out another alternative model where the state is more heavily involved in funding, and where the municipal budget does not determine what money a get, but the need for the elderly in the municipality that gets to test it out. We find it exciting to try, and will not recommend stopping in 2017 with a project that strengthens care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e166	Municipal economy is about care for the elderly, and the Progress Party could have shown that they were serious about what the party leader said in the 2013 election campaign, namely that the elderly people were getting what it would cost. It's just tax credits for the richest who's been allowed to cost what it's going to cost. The Progress Party has fed the elderly with a trial scheme that no one wants, because it is too expensive and bad, with legislative changes such as professionals and departments are clear about weakening the rights of the elderly. Now in this proposition, they propose to remove the grant to the municipalities for investment in the rehabilitation of nursing homes. SV agrees that new places are also needed, but many old places need to be rehabilitated. I wonder what the representative Njåstad would say to the elderly who live in out-of-date nursing homes that need refurbishment and modernisation. Why should the municipalities not now receive subsidies from the State to rehabilitate these hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e171	I thank you once again for questions about care for the elderly. If that is something we have in mind, it is that we should strengthen the care of the elderly in Norway. That's why we put extra money into the state budget for the care of the elderly, into the trial scheme. I think it's a little ironic when you've revised your national budget and aged it. Because a municipality has withdrawn from the experiment, there is more money left over, because the municipalities have refused to receive fresh money from the state budget for the care of the elderly. I agree with the fact that good places for sick people are important, both new and rehabilitated, and even if there is a change in the way an orphaned person works, the municipal politicians do not take responsibility for having good places for sick people. The answer to the elderly is that they have to make sure that they have municipal politicians who are involved in care for the elderly, not municipal politicians who refuse extra money from the state and do not seize the opportunities to strengthen the care of the elderly. And then we're going to be guaranteed to set up more sick places, but we might not go as high on the track as the previous government, which promised far more places than they could afford.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e176	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e180	The Labour Party wants better health care, care and schooling. That is why we prioritised more money to the municipalities when we were in government, and that is why we continue to give priority to local economy in our alternative budgets from the opposition. In the position Stortinget deals with today, the Labour Party announces that we will further strengthen the municipal economy in the 2017 budget. We believe that the government's financial arrangements for the municipalities are too weak, and we will therefore increase the income of the local government sector by at least 3 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. It will provide opportunities to accommodate all harvesters, to enhance the quality of kindergarten, to employ more teachers and to ensure early school participation, to strengthen care for the elderly, to strengthen school health services and the prevention of health work among children and young people, to increase efforts for integration and to focus more on county roads, public transport and boat routes. Despite the record high level of oil money consumption, the government has provided a weak financial framework for the local government sector. After the costs of population growth and pensions have been paid, as well as the government’s leadership and underlying growth in various high-cost services have been paid, the sector may risk ending up with a real negative room for action in 2017. The majority of the municipal committee therefore also points to the fact that real growth is very limited. This is supported by KS. At the hearing of the Committee earlier in ours, the head of the KS confirmed that the government's financial arrangements do not provide room for improving the quality of school and care for the elderly. It is of little help that the Right Party and the Advance Party refer to operating results and economic technicalities, when we see at the same time that job growth in the municipal sector is falling. The main priority of the government is still large tax cuts for those who have the most already. More than 20 billion. kr has been used by this government for tax cuts since its accession. Then there will necessarily be less money to bet on school and municipal welfare services. The government has reduced the level of transfers to the municipalities. The growth in the income of the municipal sector is now lower than that of the Stoltenberg government. With tight financial arrangements from the government, municipalities must find other sources of income. According to the government's own figures, property tax revenue has increased by 2.5 billion. kr since Siv Jensen became Minister of Finance. Local government revenue from fees has increased by 7 billion. kr. All parties in the Stortinget have gone to better school, care and health services. But not all parties are willing to prioritize it in the budgets, at least not the parties that are in government now. The Labour Party has more than 200 rapporteurs who are impatient after the government has helped them to further expand school and welfare services in their communities. I am sure they have in common with the rapporteurs also from all the other parties. Our alternative municipal structure would enable the municipalities to achieve this better. The gap between tasks and money is perhaps most evident in the county municipalities. In several of our coastal communities, the large section of the boat and ferry services is being carried out. There is a huge lag in the maintenance of county roads, and too many young people do not undertake secondary education. The municipalities, like the municipalities, have major integration-related tasks. That's why we think there's a special need to raise the county economy. Changes in the municipal structure have received a lot of attention in the first half of 2016. There have been referendums all over the country. The Labour Party is in favour of changes in the municipal structure, and that is why the many rapporteurs and local elected representatives of the Labour Party have also worked a lot on these issues. Locally looking at whether local boundaries prevent the provision of the best possible service to citizens, there is a broad consensus on this. The working party has supported the local processes along the way. Now we are committed to supporting the local decisions. Although there are a few days left until the government deadline expires, we can state that the enthusiasm for the government's municipal reform is low. Many referenda have ended up with no and low turnout. The government's proposals for changes to the municipal income system and the opening up of county councillors to make their own recommendations, irrespective of the local decisions, may have adversely affected local processes. Instead of having ice in your stomach and relying on the volunteer line The Greatness has put up, the government has fallen for the temptation to rattle with the whip in the belief that it would lead to more contractions. It is problematic for several reasons, not least because the debates in many places have been about how much money you will lose on standing alone, and not what are the benefits and opportunities of associating with your neighbor. The government has also been reprehensible to municipalities that need a little longer time to target their processes. The government has been less willing to listen to the opposition in these questions. However, it is not too late to do anything about it. Therefore, our recommendation to the government is that the municipalities that need more time to conclude about structural change or not will have to extend the deadline beyond 1 July. There has been an enormous amount of time, money and resources in the municipal structure debate in the last two years. Therefore, it would be pointless if the 1 July deadline would be an obstacle to municipal mergers to which local membership could be linked, if only sufficient time is available for process and anchoring. The further road is that the counties will sum up the processes in the individual counties beyond the late summer and the harvest. The Workers' Party supports the fact that the county councillors sum up decisions in the municipalities, but we believe that the county councillors should respect local decisions to ensure that the volunteering line is effectively followed. We don't want the countyers to draw new municipal maps across the message that has come from local democracy. When the Stortinget next spring is about to deal with the municipal reform, it must be the local decisions that underlie, not the county councillors. This cannot be up to the individual state to decide; here the government must clarify which rules apply. In the light of this, we are promoting proposals today which make it clear that the role of the county councillors is to guide the municipalities and sum up the processes and not to review local democratic decisions. Just before Christmas last year, the government sent to consult proposals for changes to the municipal income system. In the middle of the municipality's work on municipal reform, the government comes up with proposals that act on the very basis of the municipal economy, namely the distribution of funds between municipalities. The working party is committed to ensuring an income system that provides a fair distribution and an equivalent service offer between municipalities. Norway is a diverse country with large and small municipalities both in size and in population. We will take care of this diversity across the country. We therefore believe that the government's proposal, after agreement with the Left, goes in the wrong direction. The income system is now being used as a means of implementing the government's municipal reform. We are critical that this consideration takes precedence over the objective of an equivalent service offer. The starting point of the working party is that the current income system is largely well structured after several changes when the Workers' Party is in government. We believe that the current arrangements for regional policy grants have a good balance between per capita and per municipality, and we therefore believe that the grant should have the same device as the current weight. The Workers' Party supports the government's assessment of the provision of the metropolitan grant in the context of the State budget, and we support the proposal to reduce the limit for the receipt of growth grants to 1.4 pst. Finally, we note that last year's bright idea of introducing municipal corporation tax has been put in a drawer pending better times. The Labour Party opposed that proposal because most municipalities would lose out on it, and because the tax and income would vary with the economic cycle. It is good that the government will not carry out this experiment in 2017, but I would like to remind you that conversion in business and in society, for the rest, is a constant state in Norway. Therefore, the government should remove the entire patch at once and confirm that this is not going to happen. Finally, I would like to address the proposals made by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e220	Then the representative, Helga Pedersen, addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e225	Let me quote Helga Pedersen in 2010: The municipal structure needs to be changed in order to be functional and sustainable. If we don't get any more voluntary municipal mergers, we have to consider putting down a commission that can redraw the Norway Map. Now, rather, Pedersen and the Workers' Party have done their best to distance themselves from today's municipal reform, which is precisely based on voluntary solutions, while central party traps of Pedersen, which have made an important effort to obtain voluntary community associations, are seeking relief from their own party. The Labour Party rapporteur in Ålesund, Eva Vinje Aurdal, says this: I have been critical of the Labour Party in this matter. I'm not proud of the party's handling. The Labour Party rapporteur in Harstad, Marianne Bremnes, said this: ‘I wish the Workers’ Party had guts enough to participate in this municipal reform. We have to dry to say that we want this." How will the representative Pedersen comment on these statements from his party traps?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e241	This has almost become a ritual in the municipal debates, and as I reply every year when I am asked, the Labour Party had a thorough debate on the municipal structure of our programme process prior to the 2013 elections. Then we discussed whether we should follow volunteering or put down a commission to contribute to the necessary changes in the municipal structure. And the National Assembly of the Workers' Party has concluded, not only once, but twice, that volunteering should be on the ground. It's also done the mass mass, which in some contexts has underlined. And once we have reached that conclusion, we need to have faith in that concept in goal and trust in local democracy and the peoples out there who are experts in their own future. That is why we are concerned that we should now respect the decisions we make locally and not use the income system or the county councillors to draw maps. You can't count on the right municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e248	I noticed the quote in the answer to the question from the representative Frank Jensen that one must believe in the concept entirely in terms of the goal. It's leading me into my question, which goes on the big plural decision we did a year ago, where all the parties on the Stortinget, minus SV and the Environmental Party Dei Green, asked the statesmen to come up with a recommendation. The working party was involved in the concept that the county officials were given a mission. And then I'm going to register that even in that case, like in many other cases, the Labour Party is changing its attitude a little bit after the People's Union, and that one is now going to make another type of decision. I also record that the Workers' Party, in the form of a note, criticises the County Council in Buskerud for having come with their eyesight. It's a little strange that the Storting knows in the form of a note other than the government council within the administration. In that case, there is a new practice. So my question is what the representative Pedersen thought about is that Norway's largest party is changing the signal to the statesmen, as one of them has obviously done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e255	The Workers' Party does not. The party of progress may well read the notes of the Workers’ Party that the Bible reads. It is true that the Workers' Party took part in that decision last year, but if the Advance Party had read carefully what the Workers' Party said in the last year's position, we stressed very carefully that the volunteer line should be on the ground. What was at the heart of the decision taken last year by Stortinget was the deadline of 1 July, that the county councillors should not interfere with the municipal processes before 1 July. And that's the deadline the stateman in Buskerud has broken. We do not criticise the County Council in Buskerud as an individual, but we criticise that the government has not put its foot down for it, across a very clear decision on size.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e264	Denying things you've stood for can be interesting. I had great expectations for the Workers' Party this time in connection with the municipal proposition. I thought it would now be presented with a completely new income system, as Martin Kolberg announced in a debate with committee leader Njåstad on the Gardermoen. Instead, I see that someone chooses to ignore it and points out that an adjusted educational criterion in 2011. Is this the way in which the Workers' Party operates policies, that one does not realize that one should adjust the keys gradually, that one must do so in time? It's also a little interesting what the representative Pedersen calls as the great aftermath on the county roads. I just pointed out that there was no great suction among the county councils after getting the gift package, which was not at all indexed when they got it from her government. Is it that the Workers' Party is now running away from what they've done before?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e271	No, the Workers' Party does not, but we believe that there is a need to strengthen the funding of the tasks of county councils, whether they are county roads, secondary education or other things. Then the representative will probably be wrong when he claims that we will not update the cost keys. We have not reserved ourselves against that. But what we're going to do is we're going to introduce a new principle of distinguishing between involuntary and voluntary small municipalities. It's not just the Workers' Party that means it. This also applies to the other opposition parties on the Stortinget, including the Christian People's Party, and not least to all the professional communities that have expressed their opinion on this in the hearing on the income system and the municipal proposition for next year. In addition, this proposal turns into a pitfall: two neighbouring municipalities of the same size are at risk of one going in the positive and the other in the negative, and the group that gets out the worst is the municipalities of between 10,000 and 20,000 inhabitants, which the government initially believed to be the perfect municipality size.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e280	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e283	The municipalities are part of the core wall of Norwegian democracy and the Norwegian welfare society. Compared to other countries, Norwegian municipalities have large and important tasks that mean a lot in everyday life to people the most. There is a broad political consensus that this is the way it should be. Important welfare services are best addressed by municipalities that can see tasks in the context and that have the ability to prioritise resources locally — whichever is the better in each community. At the same time, there is a paradox if more or more tasks or responsibilities to the municipalities are compromised because the smaller or most vulnerable municipalities do not have the power to do the job. For example, the government proposes: to require the health professional competence of local authorities. The proposal implies that all municipalities should have doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, midwives, health sisters, ergot therapists, psychologists and dentists. In addition, the responsibility for preventing, detecting and averting violence and sexual abuse is clarified. This is an illustration of what we in the Right believe when we say that the challenges for the municipalities do not go over. The municipalities of the future shall not perform the tasks of last year with the quality requirements of the past. The future is basically quite close, and it involves new and more complex welfare services with increasingly high quality for the future schoolchildren, child-rescue children, nurturing and others. Right-wing citizens want municipalities that are not only able to handle these statutory tasks. The problems must also be solved in a good way. Nearly all municipalities today are able to take on their own responsibility for important services for the citizens. With more tasks, more responsibility for the municipality and greater demands for quality from citizens and professional authorities, it will become increasingly difficult for many of today's municipalities that are already struggling with recruitment and vulnerable trade unions. The challenges do not go away. On the contrary, they will be bigger, and then we will need a municipal sector that is equipped to take this responsibility. This is why the municipal reform is underway — not to change Norway, but because Norway has changed and because Norway wants to change. When Helga Pedersen expressed a similar concern about the quality of services in many municipalities in 2010, she summarised it to the Municipal Report: ‘This is about the future of the welfare state. Therefore, municipal structure is important.’ These would be good words to get repeated from Pedersen or others from the Workers' Party here in the Chamber today. The size is currently adopting an up-to-date and fairer revenue system from 2017, a system that ensures good welfare services throughout the country and that removes barriers to community mergers. At the same time, we simplify regional policy subsidies and more of the grants are to be distributed per capita rather than per municipality. We also adopt a new regional centre grant. It is worth noting that the horrors of winter from the Center Party about the liquidation of small municipal subsidies and other claims have been made thoroughly to shame. I had almost said of course – and as usual. With the new income system, municipalities in densely built districts, which choose to be small, cannot send the bill to the rest of the municipality of Norway in the same way as today. Unfortunately, it says when the income system as it is today, it actually feels to be a barrier to aggregation – because merged municipalities lose over time compared to those who do not. I note that several of the opposition parties defend that this is a reasonable arrangement on the income system. This government is the first to do something about this weakness in the income system, but we're not the only ones who have discovered that it is. The former municipal political figure of the Labour Party, Ingalill Olsen, said this in the 2010 newspaper article already mentioned: ‘It is now more economical for municipalities to cooperate with others than to merge. We'll turn that around. The income system may be used to stimulate aggregation.’;» Also, this is what I would call an eye-catching clear-sighted statement from the Workers' Party. And also these are words that it would be very interesting to hear repeatedly by the Workers' Party today. But the clarity later to be replaced by the fact that someone has turned off the light in the Labour Party's municipal reform debate. Then it may not be so strange that central workers' party rapporteurs, like in Harstad and Ålesund, are calling for clarity from their own party in the municipal reform debate. Many Norwegian municipalities have done a good job with the municipal reform and have had thorough discussions on what is best for their own inhabitants and business in the future. Are we going to continue on our own, or are we going to build a new municipality with the neighbor? We'll get the answers in the future in June. The centre party is still talking a little contemptuously about the rapporteurs who have worked on this, that they have been sitting and talking about structure and being concerned with borders. Then the Central Party knows the country's rapporteurs worse than I thought. The rapporteurs and thousands of municipal councillors have taken the municipal reform seriously because they are concerned about their citizens. To say something else, as the Central Party insinuates in public vocabulary, is an unfortunate downgrading of Norwegian municipalities, rapporteurs and local elected representatives. Let me also remind you that the municipal reform adopted by Stortinget is not what the municipal reform opposition is talking about, where it hails with claims of coercion and threats. The community reform is based on volunteering because we believe that the best results are created by municipalities that gather themselves together, and more and more people are doing just that. That's when we get the best results – not when drawing maps here on the Stortinget or elsewhere. However, there should be no possibility of intervention in exceptional cases. Let me just say it again -- I'd like to draw a line below in the minutes: exceptional cases. So it's also worded in e.g. Work party programme. In 2015, the local government sector achieved its best net operating surplus since 2006. The growth in revenue in 2016 seems to be greater than adopted in the State budget, and, in addition, 400 million. kr in the revised national budget for maintenance and rehabilitation under the local authority. For 2017, the free revenues are projected to continue to grow. At a time when the country's economy is still marked by change, a growth of between 3.75 and 4 billion is announced. kr, or approx. 1.1-1.2 pst. So it's in line with the growth that the government of Stoltenberg made for 2011 and 2012. Yes, the economic space provided by the government for the municipalities has actually been better in the years 2014-2016 than in the previous three years. This seems to fall the Worker's part heavily for the chest in the setting, because the growth phase is not in the forecasted growth - the phase can be found when the accounts are completed the following year. That is quite right. However, it is clearly relevant to compare the proposals of different governments for growth in the local economy for the coming years. If you jump over this, you forget something very important. If you follow the logic of the Workers' Party, it can be understood that the government is able to present strict municipal arrangements and then hope that the municipalities will have a higher tax intake than foreseen, so that the accounting figures will be better. But it won't be a line to recommend. Comparing the ambitions of governments, on the other hand, is most relevant. The proposed increase in income thus facilitates the strengthening of the provision of municipal services. The economic space is increasing next year, and Area Director Helge Eide in KS says so in Municipal Report 26 May: ‘What matters to the seventh and last thing is the free intext growth. There is no reason to complain against it in comparison with previous years.» Within this growth is also 300 million. kr is justified by enhanced care for the elderly. In addition to money for the escalation plan for the drug field, the government is warning of increased responsibilities for immediate help to people with mental health problems and/or drug problems. Conversions of grants are being announced in order to ensure a number of lucky days' care places and changes in order to improve the content of care policy – some of which I mentioned at the outset. Municipalities are crucial for providing important services — government trusts and pays in municipalities, precisely in the interests of those who need the most public help. Thus, the income growth for municipalities continues in 2017, but in addition, the government points out that if the municipal sector operates half a percent more efficiently than today, the municipal service provision can be strengthened by another 1.2 billion. kr in 2017. On the right, it is good that the government makes this potential visible, and reminds us that we have already introduced similar requirements for the state. But this is not part of the ageing of the financial system for 2017. Nearly every five employees in Norway work in the municipal sector. In many municipalities, and within many groups of employees, sick leave is high. Many do not get the full-time jobs they want, and many do not get the necessary skills. Several good employers in the municipal sector – providing lower sick leave, more full time and more competent employees – would be a very positive contribution to the community economy, the well-being of employees and not least to the satisfaction of citizens. And through such improvements, it's most realistic to take out an efficiency potential. It's about driving better – not harder. Norway has a government that continues to strengthen the municipal economy, which implements a state-of-the-art municipal reform, removing barriers to municipal mergers, and renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector. This is a policy that benefits citizens, businesses and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e347	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e351	While the Right controlled Oslo, the City Council received 850 million. SEK in investment grants for the rehabilitation of nursing homes in the care of the elderly. There were very important modifications/repairs that allowed places that would otherwise fall away to continue to be used. It's very hard to understand the distinction between it and building new ones. It is known to the right to oppose the detailed management of the municipalities, and the plans for the future of the municipality of Oslo include projects for 3.2 billion. SEK for the renovation/redevelopment of nursing homes, which will otherwise be lost if this investment grant is not received with the old facility that has been there until now. I would like to ask the Right, which, as I said, has stressed that it is not necessary to direct the municipalities in detail how they are doing the tasks of the care services of the elderly, whether the investment grant scheme will be re-evaluated once the cross-political opinions of the municipalities, for example. Oslo, and from the KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e358	The background to this change is the Workers' Party's promise of 12,000 new sick homes, a promise that fell to the ground and that weathered. It was not close to the number of new places that Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian residents had seen. It's precisely because we need more lucky days care places that the government is proposing to change the grant. It is possible that the representative, Mr Bøhler, is entitled to see that it may be difficult for the Workers' Party to see the difference between refurbishment and refurbishment. For us in the Right and for the Government, it's not very hard to see the difference. We know that we need to build new places and provide care for the elderly with several lucky days. That's why we're adding this grant, but we're doing it with a transitional arrangement, so that both Oslo and other municipalities get a couple of years to change their plans and to clean up the places you plan to clean up the next two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e365	The concept of ‘involuntary and voluntary small’ is central to the changes proposed in the income system. But there's a lot of questions and a lot of nice looks. It is a fact that municipalities with around 20,000 inhabitants generally lose on the conversion of the income system, while the largest municipalities win. Municipalities with around 20,000 inhabitants are larger than the government's expert selection as an effective size. At the same time, we know that municipalities with a population of between 15 000 and 20 000 are winning heavily on the new income system. Another strange example is Sør-Fron, who wants to merge municipalities with neighbouring municipalities, but is rejected. They're losing 4 million. kr annually on the conversion because they are considered to be voluntary small at the arrangement of the government. Does the Right believe that South-Fron should continue to be punished as a voluntary small, while in reality it is involuntarily small?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e372	I think it must be in the Central Party's world and in the Central Party's income system that you create an income system based on reward and punishment. Such income systems do not operate on the right. We want an income system that helps to cover the actual costs of municipalities and takes into account the costs that local authorities cannot bear. That's why we're adding the income system. It is possible that the Centre Party wants an income system that rewards municipalities according to their size. I can imagine that to a great extent, but the income system that we are creating now is a simpler, more predictable income system. The interesting question is really, to the Center Party and everyone else who defends today's system: why is it that one defends a system that, on the contrary, prevents and makes it unprofitable to merge municipalities? That is what this debate really lacks answers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e379	It is quite puzzled when the Right now shouts for help from the opposition to a reform they have run in the ditch, with the pressure they have now had on the municipalities, with financial coercion and all sorts of threats, especially when we know that many of the big municipalities are struggling with what Right says is the problem – the quality of the offer. This is one of the biggest time thieves that the municipal sector has been exposed to in recent years, namely drawing new maps, drawing up lines and working on them, instead of seeing how to get the best deals for the population. I think it would have been better if they had dared to say out loud what they really mean, that they mean coerced, because they must think so if they say that the small municipalities do not provide good enough services?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e386	I am not sure whether I understand or accept the premise for that question, if it was at all a question, but rather a claim. The starting point must be, and I had hoped that SV was also concerned about, that Norwegian municipalities should be able to provide good welfare services to their inhabitants, that the requirement for those services is growing, and that many municipalities actually have problems providing those services themselves. A large number of municipalities have two or fewer child-restraint workers. The vast majority of small municipalities lack psychologists. These user groups often do not appear in the user surveys to which you would like to refer. I had hoped that SV would be more concerned with ensuring a good professional offer, not just on the basis of yesterday's standards, but on the basis of the expectations and standards of the future in Norwegian municipalities, and would be able to agree that Norwegian municipalities need to build larger and better professional environments and have more competence if they are to be able to solve these tasks on their own – if you do not believe that intermunicipal cooperation and overcommunities are the new ideal instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e391	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e394	Today, we are laying the framework for Kommune-Norway for 2017, a framework that we are going to put into practice in the autumn's state budget. The municipalities of Norway have a great responsibility with a large portfolio of tasks. Municipalities shall provide equivalent welfare services in all their complexity across the country. The provision of services shall cover all residents, from the smallest to the oldest, in different situations of life. There must be quality, speed and stability in the process of good service and advice for individuals, businesses and the voluntary sector. Proposals for the 2017 municipal bill have not created large wave heights this year, as opposed to some previous years. This may be because other issues have received attention, but it may also be due to the fact that this year’s proposition is more a projection of the situation of the year without the major re-priorities. They add up to a growth for the municipalities, but some dances on the tables probably won't. Once changed demographic and pension costs are secured, there is not so much room for action left. But we were aware of that. Norway is in a transition period, and we need to give more priority to the future than we've been used to. Representatives from the previous government often say that the local economy was significantly better before, but forget to mention that they had historical luck, because they didn't cut after prioritising the bets. Enough about history! The truth is that there is reason to prepare for a more complex picture in the years to come. Lower oil prices and smaller investments, higher unemployment and greater numbers of refugees than we've been used to, make us think and prioritize something different. It is important to communicate both the changes and the frameworks accurately, so that an unrealistic picture is not created. Our local politicians can then be sitting in the baton with blacks if they have to cut off the service offer, while at the Stortinget we can talk as if everything were growing. Fortunately, it's gotten smaller in recent years. We come further with a common understanding of the challenges and the sharing of responsibilities. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is postponing the return of corporate tax to the municipalities. It would give a negative distribution effect, favoured large municipalities and given extra burden to municipalities with high unemployment. Maybe it's a good idea for the government just to leave this case in the drawer. I mentioned the challenges of increasing unemployment, and it is the South and Western countries that are hardest hit. In the revised national budget, the government proposed a one-off allocation of 250 million. kr to municipalities in the region where the national average is available. In the agreement between the government and the Christian People's Party and the Left, this appropriation was increased by 150 million. kr. These are funds that can be used for maintenance and rehabilitation projects and are an important contribution to activity and migration in the most severely affected areas. Otherwise, we notice that the government in the municipal bill announces an increase in the room for action in the handling of planning matters. We're essentially positive to that. Simplification is good, but not if it has negative consequences that challenge the community, knowledge-based facts, vulnerable nature, soil protection or environmental and climate accounts. As a backstop throughout the year, there is the municipal reform and regional reform. The size is in front of a comprehensive job of summarising the reforms. In one year's time, we'll be taking a decision on a new municipal and regional map. A lot of good political craftsmanship has been done in many municipalities to facilitate larger units. The review melody in many places has been that you do more than merge some existing units, you create something completely new. We notice that the Center Party is using every opportunity to talk down on the reform, but they themselves have a heated local exception. The Christian People's Party believes that many municipalities should definitely participate in assessing reform. Not least, we are pleased that we have now moved a long way forward in order to get larger populous regions. I'm convinced that is one of the most important things we can do to get an active district policy. Regions need to be able to act as real development actors based on their own merits. And we have great expectations, as demonstrated by the debate last Wednesday, that the state is the one that gives up tasks and power to municipalities and regions, so that it becomes a real democratic reform. The conversion of the income system for county municipalities has been dramatic for some. There is a need to strengthen the loss compensation beyond the first five years after conversion. The new counties, or regions, must have an income system with keys that assesses this in a new light. I am thus promoting the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e431	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e436	Ten million cuts. kr as a result of tax failure. The reserves are now used in 2016. In school, health and care, the councillor warns about reductions in all departments. In the financial report, the councillor has proposed to keep a department closed in the housing and service centre. – This is a loop announcement from the municipality of Egersund. In my own municipality, Marker, it's been announced, after a tough cut in the last two years, that you have to cut another five million. kr for 2017. This is how too many of the municipalities I have spoken to continue. Is the Christian People's Party and the representative Tuskedal agree with the government that the municipalities get enough, and enough, money, or will the Christian People's Party participate in proposals that will strengthen the municipal economy for 2017 with e.g. Three billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e446	I have been in municipal policy for six to seven periods under changing governments and regimes, and I have always had too little money. There has always been a fight for priorities, and the different municipalities have different priorities. The example the representative mentions, can certainly vote, but there are also municipalities that can tell that they have given priority in another way. When it comes to the current and next year's budget, it's tight, but we think it's completely acceptable. There has been an increase in areas that the Christian People's Party has prioritised, and where we are happy to have increased frames. This applies to health, school and other matters, and not least to the efforts we have now made towards unemployment. Then it's up to the individual municipality how you want to prioritise. But too little money will always be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e453	The income system for municipalities with large redistributions from small and medium-sized municipalities in favour of the very largest is the result of the agreement between the government parties and the left. The Christian People's Party is not included in that agreement or in the comments made by the parties to the agreement in the committee voting. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is part of the majority who ensure that the government supports changes in the income system, as far as I can see in the position. The party has not made any other proposals. What is the Christian People's Party's view of the proposed changes in the income system?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e460	The Christian People's Party went out of cooperation on income systems, because we thought the time was wrong. The Christian People's Party has always believed that first we should have a regional reform and then a municipal reform, where the income system was clarified in advance. That was the direct reason why we withdrew from that cooperation. Having said that, the Christian People's Party understands that the income system must build up under what was the intention of the municipal reform, so that we are encouraged to become new, better and more efficient municipalities. It was the intention of the Christian People's Party. With that background, we see that the proposal that has been put forward can work. So we react the same way as others that there's some strange rash. Then I remember that the income system can change every year, but the reform is going to last for decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e467	SV and the Christian People's Party have been strong champions of schemes to take care of some of the most disadvantaged. That's why, for many years now, we have earmarked efforts for increases in child protection, because we have known that if you don't, there won't be an escalation in child protection. Now more is to be invested in the care of Russo, psychiatry and school health services in the community, and we know that is absolutely necessary. But the Christian People's Party is no longer involved in earmarking these bets. Then the question to the Christian People's Party is: why don't you want it when you see from the experience of the escalation of child protection that it didn't work until you put a label on this money? That means that you say there's a stake in the care of a drug, but it can actually be a stake in asphalt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e474	It's probably true, as the representative says, that we've been working with SV and focusing on groups that need it the most, but that don't go on demonstration trains. That's why both care, child protection, health, health sisters and not least early school bets have been areas where the Christian People's Party has had a significant impact, and it has changed a part of the reality of just these groups. So I share that view that we would very much like to have earmarked parts of this, but at the same time we have faith in the local politicians, that they give priority where it is needed. These are two good principles that easily conflict with each other: earring and municipal freedom. I agree that with child protection, perhaps it should have been ear-marked stronger, and that is something that the Christian People's Party will definitely assess further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e481	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e484	The municipal proposal for 2017 is about significantly more than the municipal sector’s financial framework for next year. The proposal for the conversion of the income system and not least the implementation of the government's municipal reform has prospects far beyond 2017. This has also marked the debate. Nevertheless — first to the government’s arrangement for the income of municipalities and next year. The entire Committee is united in an introductory remark that there must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the local government sector and the financial arrangements laid down by the Stortinget. We national politicians are active contributors to raising citizens’ expectations for the provision of municipal services. We're not as good at securing the economic base. It might seem like the proposed But as shown by the government's own calculation, the money is eaten up by extra costs for demography, pensions and state investments. It is only when a person collects funds from the efficiency requirements that the government imposes on the local government that there is money left to increase the room for action. The Central Party therefore supports proposals to increase the framework by 3 billion. kr distributed by 2 billion. kr to the municipalities and 1 billion. kr to the county. When the municipal reform was launched in the municipal proposal for 2015, it was suggested that the reform should be based on volunteering and local processes. The exception, which we warned against, was in very special situations where individual municipalities would not be able to stop changes that were considered appropriate for regional reasons. As the reform has met with countermeasures in the municipality by municipality, the volunteering line has been systematically attempted to undermine through threats of coercive use and measures to make it more difficult to survive as a municipality of its own. The new income system for municipalities, to which I am going to come back, is an example of this. I would also like to say that I am deeply concerned about the role that the county council has been given. The assumption was that KS and the statesmen should contribute as process guides. It is now said that the State should summarise and assess whether the decisions are in line with the objectives of the reform and recommend the municipal structure of the county. As I read the proposition, the department transfers responsibility for drawing conclusions on municipal mergers away from local politicians and residents and across to County. We are no longer talking about a reform based on volunteering and local processes, but about a reform that has one correct response given by the government and a sensor, the County, to characterize whether the tasks are well enough solved. I hope I have the majority with me when I say that this cannot be found in the Storting. Urban reform is increasingly seen as a centralisation reform, in which jobs are moved and settlements are changed. We know the consequences of the Danish reform. In the evening post on 24 May, Kaare Dybvad, social democratic representative of the Danish People's Party, says: The community reform has changed the Danish society forever. Provided that efficiency is not achieved. Services haven't improved, but centralization has shot speed. Sites of less than 20 000 inhabitants, which are included in new large municipalities, are weakened. The public is moved into the big cities — and the population is moving in. The proposal for a new income system, on which the government has agreed with the Left, is justified by removing obstacles to local reform more than ensuring equivalent services throughout the country. The proposal for new criteria in the income system will lead to a systematic transfer of budgetary resources to the main municipalities at the expense of medium-sized and smaller municipalities. The strongest redistribution effect comes through the conversion of the basic grant into a structural criterion to distinguish between so-called voluntary small and involuntary small municipalities. The weighting of neighbouring and zone criteria in the sub-cost keys enhances the redistribution effect. There is a lack of professional evidence for the proposals that have been promoted. When the Borge Committee in 2015 investigated the possible design of the income system based on the assumption that the municipal structure is a voluntary cost, they reported passports. The Borge Committee said: that the use of structural criteria will be based on discretionary considerations, not objectively that it is difficult to determine the level of voluntary participation that the basic grant is an important contribution to the provision of equivalent services in different sized municipalities; Now I see my time running out. Finally, I would like to address the proposal put forward by the Central Party and the proposals of the Central Party. Then I would like to inform you that the Central Party will also support proposal No. 4, by the Labour Party and proposals No. 11, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 21, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e526	The representative Heidi Greni then mentioned the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e531	The central party would like to point out that intermunicipal cooperation is a better solution than building new municipalities. Some municipalities have up to 70 intercommunal cooperation, and then they can ask what kind of power is actually in local democracy. I have noticed that the Central Party has doubts that there is an advantage to unbridled bureaucratic solutions and will then move power out of local government. In the largest Central Party municipality in the country, Stjørdal, saying Ivar Vigdenes: ‘Communication pooling will address the challenges of inter-municipal cooperation and reinforce its benefits. That recognition has increased in the course of the process, and makes me more positive to aggregation now than before." No mean the spokesman in Stjørdal that it would be best to turn it upside down – a municipal conspiracy instead of intercommunal cooperation. Could the representative Greni think of saying that she supports the party trap Ivar Vigdenes, the spokesman of the largest central party-driven municipality in the country, who says that municipal convergence can actually be better than ever more inter-municipal cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e543	When assessing whether the municipality should continue as a municipality of its own or join with someone, it is necessary to consider what is best for the inhabitants of that municipality. Stjørdal is the big brother municipality that, at a municipal merger, would have contributed skilled work places and become the centre of the new municipality. It's natural that for Stjørdal's part, the tongue on the scale would be the positive outcomes, which would be much larger than the negative ones. The neighbouring municipalities around have assessed this differently. They'd get very far away from the services, they'd get less influence on local democracy, they'd see that they'd lose skills jobs, and they know that in the long run they'd have a massive decline in the population. They have assessed that it is best to continue as their own municipality and have control of the local services themselves. And then we know that Stjørdal is equally dependent on the intercommunal cooperation in the Værnes region as the neighbouring municipalities are, and they will probably continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e548	I will start by reading from the local view Opinion 13 May 2016. It says: ‘Yesterday the flag went to the top in front of the municipal house. The rapporteur, Per Helge Johansen, smiled from ear to ear. Leka is the economic winner of the municipal reform.’ Then comes a quote from Johansen: ‘This is a winner’s day for us and other involuntary small municipalities in Norway. This is a victory for Norwegian democracy and well-being. [[...]] Central politicians have believed in us and have taken into account our disadvantages as an involuntary small community with small business disadvantages.’ It's because we're moving money from central small municipalities that can connect with their neighbors to real district municipalities that have long distances. How will the Central Party describe the district policy that makes Leka, Røst and many other real district municipalities the winners?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e566	It was well done that Njåstad did not realize that my own municipality of residence is in the same situation – it comes positively out of the income system, but that does not mean that this is a change that is positive for all municipalities in Norway. There's so many nice looks in this. It can be said that if two small municipalities with 1,000 inhabitants join forces and become 2,000, they are actually large, robust and very well able to maintain child protection. They receive reform grants and perhaps even soft cake and Christmas gifts from the Council of State. But a municipality that has 1,000 inhabitants should then be punished in exactly the same way. The positive impact for some district municipalities that are far from a region with 5,000 inhabitants does not mean that this is a good system. It's a system that has no logic in it. Two municipalities that merge and become 2,000 inhabitants, as I said, get a premium. My home municipality will be premiered if it joins with the neighbouring municipality. [[The President clubs.]] That's how this madness goes on up...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e571	The former representative was in Leka. The Central Party has been in government for 15 years since 1975. Hans Rotmo published what was called "Vjösvisa" in 1975, and the text was as follows: ‘It’s centralized and it’s put down, yes, it’s going to end!’ The central party has been in government for 15 years since then. This suggests that the Center Party, which has always had the mantra to call all that is happening around municipal reform, efficiency, etc. for centralisation, in many ways has played down as a game, which is so strongly opposed to change? It is not likely that in the 15 years of the Central Party, there has been no less centralization, nor the opposite. Does the representative feel that she wants to apologize on behalf of... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e581	If the representative Njåstad had seen little about the statistics, he would have seen that under eight years of red-green government centralization was slowed down and partly stopped. At the end of the red-green period, there was population polling in almost all municipalities in Norway, and there was population polling in all regions. If you look at the neighbouring countries, for example: Sweden is a gruesome example of what happens where the Senter Party has not held a hand on the steering wheel of district policy. I think the representative Njåstad was in Finland when we were on a study tour there. They said that in Finland there was a need for a community structural reform, while in Norway we had actually succeeded with district policy, as opposed to most other Nordic countries. They thought it was strange that we were talking about a municipal reform, which actually had such a good housing structure and had succeeded in our district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e586	The cord shift is over. The president makes it clear that even though Skjelstad may be similar to Njåstad, his name is still Skjelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e591	I will promise not to go wild with the names, as the representative, Mr. Greni. The left considers that a living government of the people requires local elected bodies to have framework conditions and political space adapted to today's society and the challenges of the future. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for children and young people’s growing-up conditions as well as health and care services throughout their lives, thus representing the very core wall of the welfare society. The left believes that it is important to strengthen local democracy by shifting power from the state to local elected bodies and thus giving citizens greater influence over their own everyday lives. The municipal structure of the 1960s is in stark contrast to today's real housing and labour markets and service areas. Many of the municipalities no longer have the opportunity to take an overall approach to industrial development, environmental policies, land use and increasingly complex and demanding public services, including: in the field of health and care. Local self-government is increasingly restricted by state detail management and is losing ground to state regulations and circulars. The left therefore believes that we must have larger and stronger municipalities. Community reform is about shifting more power down and closer to people and facilitating better provision for citizens in their neighbourhood. I note that local workers' party and centre party politicians have also come to the recognition that inter-municipal enterprises restrict the transparency of citizens and reduce local self-government. If you are to succeed in strengthening local self-government, you also need to be large enough to be able to handle current and not least future tasks. The new income system has been a central part of the left, and we made an agreement with the Progress Party and the Right. I would like to thank both the Right and the Advance Party for the good cooperation. The income system has strong incentives for a necessary municipal reform, but the left has been passed on for less whips and more carrots than the government provided. The left is happy that we now have an income system where more money is given per capita and less per town hall. In the reform process, the Left has been given the advantage of halving the gains and losses on the structural criterion, which means that municipalities between 10,000 and 20,000 people are better served. The left has also increased investment in infrastructure of 150 million. kr to new municipalities that merge. It will strengthen communication in the new municipalities. The left has also had the effect of a transitional arrangement whereby merged municipalities retain full basic grants until the new municipality is established. We are also pleased that we have set up a new grant for new municipalities over 9,000 inhabitants who receive a regional centre function. There is also a need to see the big cities in a new light. Especially Bergen and Stavanger have challenges with increased unemployment. The left has been made aware of the existence of a model whereby the major urban grant is awarded according to more criteria than the number of inhabitants and where the grant is granted partly as a percentage per municipality and partly as a percentage per capita. In this context, it shall be assessed in particular how the grant can strengthen the major cities affected in particular by oil price falls and economic conversion, including Stavanger and Bergen. The left has also been made aware of the need to investigate a new sub-cost key for social assistance, including: assess whether it is possible to construct a criterion addressing drug-related and mental health challenges. This will benefit the big cities in particular. Further studies shall also be carried out on the value of the mental retardation criterion in the cost key for care. Pending this, the weighting of this criterion is maintained unchanged against the current sub-cost key for care and care. For the purposes of this presentation, grants to former host municipalities shall also be presented to institutions for mental retardation and their pension obligations. The High Finance Facility for Resource-Required Services shall also be presented. I would also like to mention that there is a need for a review of the income system for county municipalities. A majority of the Committee has supported strengthening the loss compensation scheme beyond the first five years following the conversion of the income system. In the context of the regional notification, a majority have argued that the income system needs to be put in place when we have new elected regions. It is a good day for the Left, because we are happy in the public sector, and we must also dry up the facilities for conversion. The objective must be a strengthened local democracy, and municipalities must be able to provide good welfare services to their inhabitants. It has always been our goal around this with the community reform. I must also be allowed to point out – even if there is a slight error in the debate, as Mr Njåstad rightly points out – that it is the small district municipalities that actually come out of the transition to the new income system, the ones that have the biggest regional challenges. It is not the case, as others point out in the debate, that it is those who come out unluckily. So it's that those who don't have district challenges, and in many ways have new benefits of just being small before, don't come out as well, because they don't have the challenges that the very least of the biggest district challenges have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e628	I did not get an answer from the Progress Party to my question earlier today – it is possible that the Left can answer. In the case of the agreement, where one of the points of agreement is that municipalities should be halved for their basic grant in order to stimulate the merger of municipalities. The paradox and consequence of the change is that municipalities with a population of between 10 000 and 20 000, which the government expert committee considers to be of sufficient size, will lose income. Then, with the Left, a new grant is introduced to municipalities that merge and that become more than 10,000 inhabitants. The result is that municipalities that already have more than 10 000 inhabitants are to be penalised financially, while municipalities that by aggregation become more than 10 000 inhabitants are to be funded. Examples in Skjelstad's own province are Verdal and Levanger. Can Skkelstad explain why municipalities that are already large enough are to be penalised financially, while municipalities that become large enough are to be premiered?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e637	At first I think we have to correct a little bit when it comes to reading to Mr. Lauvås. Municipalities with over 9 000 inhabitants – and not 10,000, as the representative of Lauvå pointed out a little incorrectly – and which have regional centre functions will have the opportunity to receive an additional grant. We're now making sure that this will mean growth for those who merge. Then it's true that some municipalities that don't have the biggest district challenges, with population of 10,000 to 22,000 – to be precise – don't have the same growth. This is to get an engine in it, and I think that is good. The representative of Lauvås wants to premiere to get more town halls. That policy does not stand for the left. We want better welfare services. That is our policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e650	My question to Skelstad is on the income system. The left is with the government parties to make substantial changes to the income system. Most municipalities will lose weight on the conversion, in particular the medium-sized municipalities, in favour of the largest municipalities in the country. In a comment from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, it states that the ‘new income system’ will remove ‘ barriers to municipal reform’. Further reference is made to: ‘Communities which decide to merge during the reform period may retain a full basic grant through a transitional arrangement.’;» [[...]] [[...]] It is therefore said that a new income system should remove obstacles to the bundling of municipalities. At the same time, transitional arrangements are proposed which provide substantial revenues to merged municipalities. Does the Left continue to believe that the objective of the income system should be to provide the basis for equivalent services throughout the country, or can the Left confirm my view that this is now secondary to the need for community mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e664	The representative Greni is willing, as most of the time. Our overall objectives, which have also been the overall objectives of the contracting partners, are to achieve an income system that provides good both qualitative and quantitative services to the inhabitants of the country. But then it's like stimulating what's also been a goal here, getting a community reform. But it's in many ways on the side of an income system, for an income system we have to have, and we have to roll it regularly – and not as the red-greens did, just adjusted it according to the educational criterion, in 2011. On the other hand, we have in the agreement that this has to be rolled regularly, because we constantly have to have a non-static income system. That's why it's important also to get it in place. Not only do we have an agreement on this, we are a partner in terms of the income system – and not just in the form of a note, as Mr. Greni pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e673	The municipal sector is important if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and if we are to be able to defend ourselves against major changes caused by extreme weather. KS has made a report that tells us that in the municipal sector there are no barriers, but there is a lack of positive drivers to get this going. The positive drivers, they say, are coordinated government policies, clear and consistent governance signals and targeted state support schemes. I thought the Left was concerned that the municipal sector should also be a driver of climate work and take its responsibility there, and not least that the municipalities should have the opportunity to defend themselves against the extreme poverty that comes, and the large costs that it will entail – because you cannot take money from the care of the elderly to open ditches, for example. Why is the proposal of the Left-wing Party not supported in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e685	I wonder if Andersen's representative has not brought everything here. We are well pleased that we have put in place a subsidy scheme for 2016, an arrangement that the Left and Christian People's Party has put in place together with the government parties. We have put in place concrete climate action, which can also be at municipal level, relating to climate-friendly land and transport planning and, in particular, climate-friendly transport, climate-reducing measures in other sectors and pre-projecting. I have to say that I am a little curious about the question that Andersen's representative brought here. If there's something that's been in the driver's seat for the Left, it's just to put in place both walking and cycling routes and, not least, to mitigate emissions, also in the municipal sector. It is the municipal sector that is closest to the population. I agree with Mr Andersen, but I think she has a bit of a hurry here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e694	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e697	SV is the party that is the most bet on the municipalities. We want to increase the income of the local government sector by an estimated 6 billion. kr in addition to what the government proposes. We do that because we know that community works. We want the schools to get enough teachers, that care for the elderly is safe and good for everyone, that there are enough staff there, and that you can both rehabilitate and build new hospitals. There's a value choice SV has made. There will be more teachers, more hospitals and lowthreshold services in psychiatry with SV, but perhaps a little less tax haven for the richest. It is also very good to invest in the municipal sector if you want to reduce unemployment, and there will be useful jobs there. SV will earmark the funds for drug addiction, psychiatry, child protection and school health services. It is absolutely necessary to make sure that the money goes to what they have been granted: that there will be more health sisters, that there will be a low threshold for those who are struggling mentally. SV is also adding extra money to climate adaptation and reducing climate emissions in municipalities. There's a big bet there, not just with some smaller bets and no systematics, as it is now. We know that quality costs. I'm a little surprised that the government doesn't. It is true that some small municipalities are struggling with the quality, but it is true that some large municipalities are also struggling. So anyone who wants modern well-being has to bet more on the local economy than what today's government is doing. It's a choice of values, and the government has shown its choice of values, where the big money goes to the richest. When discussing community mergers, it seems that cooperation has become something ugly and dangerous – but it is not. SV is for community bundling when it happens voluntarily. We have initiated it in a number of places and are not against it. But we're not against intercommunal cooperation either, because it works very well. Geography doesn't change by merging, and I think everyone must be aware of that. We are also opposed to changes in the income system that are about punishing those who do not want to dance after the pipe of the Progress Party, Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Many of the SV's efforts are about implementing what we want, namely a full-time school. It is going to be a reality in Norway — we look at the discussion — just as it has been with kindergarten to everyone, for whom SV has been at the forefront for all years. I think everyone who has been close to the care of the elderly knows that more employees are needed there if the elderly are to be well cared for. That's why SV is betting on it. We are also committed to stepping up kindergarten admissions, and young people sitting in receptions of asylum will have children's playgrounds. It costs money, too, but it's worth it. We strengthen the system of user-driven personal assistance. We also want increases in the system of state co-financing for resource-intensive services, especially when we see that disabled refugees remain in reception because the municipalities see that they do not have the money to give them the offer they should have in the future. Municipalities are also very important in combating child poverty. The government's figures show that the curtailment of social assistance to child welfare takes 450 million each year. kr from the poorest children's families in this country. Then someone might ask themselves why these families get poor. This has to end. The government says they want drugs and psychiatry to be part of the interaction reform. It also wants, but not until you have built up the offer in the municipalities that is necessary for these patients, who are now being printed more quickly by both psychiatry and caregivers, to receive an offer that they need. To the income system itself, SV wants to propose stronger income balancing between municipalities than we have today, and asks the government to investigate it. There are many right-wing rapporteurs, among others. in Westfold, who has also asked for it. We want earmarked bets in several areas, and we also want the government to look at the funding of child protection in Oslo, in municipalities that are responsible for both the first and second line services. Then I would like to address the suggestions in the setting that SV promotes – except for proposal No. 20, because there's two proposals that have become the same, and I don't think that's necessary to promote at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e733	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e738	I look at the setting of the municipal bill that SV proposes once again to designate appropriations for the municipalities, instead of adding money as free money, for which the municipalities themselves can control the use of. After all, Norwegian municipalities are already spending most of their money on important welfare tasks. The problem with more designation is that municipalities have to use bureaucrats to write applications and reports, and many municipalities do not even use the funds because of all the additional work. My simple question to the Socialist Left Party is: Why does SV think it is better to make earmarking and bureaucracy of the money, which does not come to users?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e743	Then I can ask you back: why does Right do this with money for child protection? Because you do. It has been realized that if you don't label bets on child protection, there is no child protection. SV wants to bet more on the school health service, and then we earmark the money. It is up to the government to make simple arrangements to enable municipalities to apply for this without too much bureaucracy. Similarly, it is within psychiatry, with low-threshold services in municipalities, that SV wants. We know that the money does not necessarily go to stepping up that offer. That's why we're labeling the money. We also have an increase of 3 billion. kr in the free income of the municipalities, which means that the municipalities have much freer spaces in order to prioritize what they want to prioritize, with SV's arrangements than with the arrangements of the Right and Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e754	That exercise is a race for whoever spends the most money on the table of the municipalities, where SV always makes sure to go a little extra compared to their former cooperation party as well. It's always interesting to listen to how the rhetoric changes from one is in the position of the opposition. In 2010 the government with SV produced a growth of 1.2 billion. kr – at least in today’s SV measuring stick – said the daring municipal minister, just enough from the Central Party: ‘We look around us in Europe, and see the conditions in other countries, it will be difficult to take seriously the complaint voiced by the opposition and which applies to a framework that provides room for increased service provision as the population changes.’ That's a little bit of the same thing we're experiencing today. One has obviously been pleased with the frames of the red-green government. And then for the fourth year in a row, we've put more money on top, even though a person has taken care of demography and retirement. What makes SV think it was good enough with the red-green, while the growth that's now in place is not good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e766	I do not recognize that I should have said that it is a complaint song, and that everything is bad. I haven't said that at all. However, SV has ambitions and wants to give priority to the municipal sector more than the Progress Party does. We spend more on care for the elderly than the Progress Party does. We're betting more on more teachers than the Progress Party is doing. We spend more on good school health than the Progress Party does. It's this choice we've made. There'll be more teachers and nurses and health sisters with SV, but there'll be a little less crash-rich millionaires, maybe, with SV. Our approach will, of course, provide a good input into a situation where we have a lot of unemployed people, because these are jobs – useful jobs. Had the Progress Party also been involved in saying that we now have to strengthen the climate and environmental competence of the municipalities, as SV suggests, it would have been a job for some of the unemployed engineers who have that competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e773	Finding the balance point between ringing and municipal autonomy is a demanding matter. It is in our party and certainly in most others, because there are two good principles that conflict with each other. Because when you ear tags, it's state-run, system-driven. When it's municipally overthrown, it's local self-government, it's trust in local politicians. This is a demanding balance sheet point. I became politically interested in the 1970s, when we discussed with SF and SV precisely these systems and how we in society were most likely to deal with state-run versus localized. To be a little concrete today: we hear that someone would have liked to have earmarked both for child protection, health sisters and care, etc. Can the representative explain how far SV will go in earrings?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e780	Now the budget supported by the Tuskedal representative is earmarking money for child protection. You've done that because you've realized that it was necessary. Our point is that when the state says there's going to be a bet on child protection, you have to make sure that there's a bet on child protection. Otherwise, it's a betrayal of those who sit and think they're going to get help and not get it. That's the way we think it must be when we now say that there should be escalation on rushes, which are not earmarked by this government and what the Christian People's Party now supports. We know that when patients are written faster out of care, they must have an offer in the municipalities. It's hard for municipalities to prioritize it if we don't label the money. Yes, there are dilemmas around this. I recognize it completely openly. But if the state says it's going to be a bet, we need tools to show that the bet we're going to have is being implemented. If you don't get to put the money in as free money and say it's up to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e793	The government's project to bring together its municipalities in fewer and larger units through referendums has not exactly led to a wave of yes-voices raging across the country. We have rather recorded that many people do not want to join the neighbouring municipality. We have also registered that even more people are unsure or simply not interested, and they have not participated. We can analyze these results up poles and down walls, we can ask ourselves whether the information has been too bad, whether the incentives have not been good enough, or whether the project itself has not been good enough. But regardless of the outcome of such analyses, it is quite obvious that the project that the government has tried to implement has not worked. It seems that the Green Party in many ways is a pity, because it is important that Norwegian municipalities constantly adapt to the tasks they face, and not least the future they are going to enter into. The Green Party believes that also municipal mergers can be one of the tools that should be clearly in the toolbox. In some municipalities, the Green Party is voting against aggregation, and in other municipalities, we are voting for aggregation, based on a practical assessment of what is most appropriate, and what is the will of the people. But when Stortinget discussed the municipal reform, the majority was concerned with: ‘If, after an overall assessment and having obtained views from its citizens, the municipalities conclude that aggregation is not currently applicable, this is a conclusion that the majority considers it necessary to be respected.’ For this reason, this year’s municipal proposal has been followed with particular attention. The government, together with the Left, has proposed changes to the income system of the municipalities, and in that proposal, the municipalities that have agreed to merge, while the municipalities that have said no come out worse. The subsidy for small business disadvantages, for example, is proposed differently, depending on whether you are a voluntary small or involuntarily small, so that a municipality that wants to remain small is penalised. This is a policy we cannot pursue. This means that the local democracy that the government has asked for may subsequently be punished because the outcome will not be what the government has wanted. Such a policy risks creating a kind of A- and B-layer of Norwegian municipalities. The Green Party is therefore of the opinion that the implementation of a revised income system for municipalities should be postponed. That doesn't mean we're opposed to changing the income system. On the contrary, we believe that the situation we are in now, which is a reality we must take on, should be used to explore new opportunities that can produce a better result than the proposals and measures that have so far come. We should have a public body that allows us to assess the impact of a no in different municipalities, and propose a new charging system in which the changes in regional policy subsidies are also assessed. Overall, these two issues, as I said in the debate on regional reform, must be seen very carefully in the context of the green shift that the entire Norwegian society is going through, and to which all parts of Norwegian society must contribute, and which may in many ways be the most important element. The Green Party supports regional reform, but we want a green regional reform, where a green shift is a basic premise. If we are to achieve this, we must also have a green municipal reform. We therefore stress that a new income system for municipalities must assume that they should promote a more environmentally friendly, more climate-friendly and more adaptable municipal policy. It will also require increased frameworks in general, and therefore the Greens want to increase the income framework for municipalities by 3 billion. kr, which is partly earmarked and partly open to contributing to greener community planning in municipalities. Then we also need a broader set of indicators than just economic indicators. Deliveries of sustainable municipal development must be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e812	I was happy when I finally heard here that the Green Party will increase the revenues of the municipalities. That's good. The revenue system shall now be amended on a proposal from the Government and with the support of the Left. As the representative Hansson has probably also seen, we see that a lot of municipalities come out with red numbers, so if you look at KS’s good tables in this way, it loses money. I would like to ask the representative Hansson: What are the principles of the Greens' Greens' Greens' Greens' Greens' Greens' Group's view of a system of incomes for municipalities, as well as that it must be very green?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e821	That it has to be very green is not a joke, if you take over the debate that we had in the United Kingdom yesterday about the consequences of the conclusion of the Paris Agreement that – and it is important to assume – add up to a fundamental change in very many areas of Norwegian society. It's as green as the premis set must be. Furthermore, the Green Party is a party that believes that political decisions should be taken at the lowest possible level, and we are committed to transferring tasks and resources to the municipalities, so that they can do so as far as possible. Then we are also aware of the very difficult balance between entrusting the responsibility and resources to the municipalities and the national responsibility in areas where – for which we have just heard a discussion, for example. the protection of children – it is absolutely necessary to ensure adequate quality. So we're not dogmatic, we're also quite listening in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e828	The representative, Hansson, was in his speech concerned that the municipalities had to take climate responsibility and operate with climate adaptations. So is SV. For this reason, we have made proposals today that the municipal sector must have a financial framework and build up competences in this area so that they can achieve targets for greenhouse gas reductions and make the necessary climate adaptations. However, we also have a proposal that competence requirements should again be set for municipalities in the climate and environment of municipal administration. It was before, but it has fallen away now. For SV, it is obvious that these major and difficult tasks will not be carried out in the future unless it is ensured that there is a high level of competence in these areas, both in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and not least in climate adaptations, which mean that much of municipal infrastructure needs to be reinforced. Will the Greens vote in favour of these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e840	The proposals described by Andersen's representative are more or less identical with those we have in our alternative state budget, and then I will admit that as a non-member of the municipal committee, I do not have a complete overview of all the proposals that have been submitted, either SVs. I have great sympathy for what I understand is the intentions of what Karin Andersen describes. What we're going to spend a little bit of time on still beyond the day is the assessment of the specific requirements to be imposed on competence. I understand that the representative Andersen refers to the MIK reform that we had, and that was good, and that we were followers of. The chance is that we're in favour of such a proposal, but to the extent that it's possible to leave that kind of assessment to the municipalities, it's our primary wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e847	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e850	I would first like to thank the Committee for its thorough work on the 2017 Community Proposition and, in particular, thank the government's cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, for the good solutions we have found together in the Storting. With the current position, we have laid the framework for the important work that municipalities will do next year. They shall provide good welfare services, sustainable economic development of society, proper exercise of powers and strong, living communities. A safe community is essential for us to have a good life. We are totally dependent on good municipal services such as school, health care and clean water. But almost as important are small and large communities in teams and associations, in parental committees and in volunteer centres that give us belonging and joy in everyday life. If we want to preserve the Norwegian tradition of strong communities, we must be willing to develop them further as new times and challenges arise. The world is changing. We are facing a troubled international situation with a global refugee crisis. Many people have sought refuge with us, and municipalities get new residents to be included in our community. Only in the last year do we see that the conversion of the Norwegian economy is coming faster and earlier than planned. Workers lose their jobs. Enterprises are being laid down. Families experience insecurity. Lower oil prices mean a less economic space for action. It will also have implications for public budgets, government and local authorities. At the same time, we are moving ever closer to the time when fewer economically active people have to provide benefits and services to several older people. But we have opportunities, and we have resources. We have a highly educated population, we have a high level of professional participation, and we have large natural resources that have created a basis for value creation, well-being and jobs through generations, and that will also do so in the future. We will deal with these challenges. But it requires us to be willing to change to preserve the good welfare society we have. We can't steer forward by looking in the rear-view mirror. It is necessary to change the municipal structure of the 1960s in order to meet today's and future challenges. Many municipalities are too small for the big tasks they've had in the last 50 years. And in the years to come, they will have increased tasks, not least in health and care services for the elderly, chronically ill, addicted and mentally ill. The county doctor in Agder expressed great concern last week about the ability of the smaller municipalities to bear this responsibility. We also see that the medium-sized municipalities in urban areas have challenges. Too much time and effort is spent on afterbograngers and processes, which delay and prevent the necessary development of dwellings, transport solutions and economic areas. When the municipalities do not do their tasks well enough, the state detail management increases. We regulate, label, require supervision, reporting and control. More power is centralized when the municipalities become too small. This is a form of detailed management that limits communities and deprives them of the responsibility and freedom they should have to govern their own everyday life and their own social development. We need to make municipalities and communities strong. We need to equip them to take more responsibility and meet tougher times with higher demands and lower oil revenues. I am pleased that local politicians all over the country now see the opportunities, show leadership and create stronger welfare municipalities. If we look at both referendums and population surveys, there is a much greater upsurge in reform than the media image can say. It is too early to pass a judgment on the reform, but we can already see that we have come further in two years than in the previous 20 years. It's going in the right direction. Now it is the local politicians who have to make decisions. They will make a choice, not only on behalf of those who have participated in surveys or referendums, but on behalf of all citizens, including future generations. Nor does the need for change go away after the Storting finalises the proposition on municipal structure next year. We must continue to renew, simplify and improve the public sector in the years to come. This is precisely why it is also necessary to change the income system of municipalities, a system tailored to semanticize today's municipal structure, with too many small and vulnerable municipalities. We have now set up a new income system that makes it more profitable to create stronger municipalities, a system that provides a fairer distribution of income, where more funds are allocated per capita and less per town hall, a system that provides good support schemes and financial predictability for municipalities that join together, at a time when many other factors are uncertain. At the same time, we have ensured that citizens across the country can receive a good and equivalent service offer, taking into account that it is more expensive to provide services in scattered areas. The smallest municipalities in the districts actually receive increased income with this model. With the framework we have set for growth in the free income of municipalities, municipalities will have room to cover both increased costs and further develop their service provision next year. When we see expenditure and revenues in the context, the municipalities had a better economic space in the years 2014–2016 than in the three previous ones under the government of Stoltenberg. The action space we set up for 2017 is in line with the red-green alerts in 2011 and 2012. The government, together with our cooperation parties, the Left and Christian People's Party, has ensured the municipalities good and predictable financial framework conditions during this period. We have shamed the claims about starving the municipalities. We have also given room for a special focus on services for drug addicts in the growth of free income. This will contribute to fewer falls outside and more being lifted. At the same time, we know that municipalities should make demanding priorities between many good purposes, as they always have to do. This year, we have chosen to make visible the opportunities available to increase the scope of action beyond what the government proposes, through better organisation and more efficient operation of municipal services. The productivity Commission and others have pointed to wide variations in the use of municipal resources and quality of service. It is obvious that many municipalities can provide better services if they learn from the best in different areas. We know that some municipalities are good at one thing, and others can be good at something else. This is not least important when we now go into a time when we can no longer pay ourselves out of all the problems, with oil money. The State shall be a co-player of the municipalities in the process of renewing, simplifying and improving public services. There is a high potential for digitising public services, so that they become more user-friendly, safer and more efficient. We therefore cooperate with the municipalities, inter alia: to introduce secure digital mail and to digitise applications for start-up loans and housing support. We have launched a clear language project, which provides better information and thus also better legal certainty for the citizens who receive enquiries from municipalities. This creates a simpler everyday life for both citizens and employees in the public sector. The sum of the various measures we describe in the municipality proposal will provide municipalities with a good framework and opportunities both in 2017 and in the coming years. It will facilitate the necessary renewal so that we can preserve the Norwegian tradition of strong and vibrant communities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e882	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e885	I notice with great interest that when the municipal minister wants to compare himself with the Stoltenberg II government, he will only compare with the years 2011 and 2012, and not with the entire period. You can wonder why it's like that. The answer is probably that when you compare today's government with Stoltenberg II, the growth in the total income under Stoltenberg II was 2.5 pst., while it has now fallen to 1.8 pst. – a significant difference. Differences in Norway are also increasing. Most people agree that school and education are essential to give all children equal opportunities and to equalise social differences. We know that one in four never completes high school. The results in North Norway are particularly alarming. It is part of the picture that the results and implementation are progressing, but this is being played when the Nordic counties now have to cut heavily in higher education because the government has cut 400 million. kr to North Norway following changes in the income system. My question is, does the Minister of State think that less money is the right recipe for improving the quality of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e893	Let me first say that I compared the years from 2010 to 2013 with the years from 2014 to 2016. Then we see that we have arranged for the municipalities to have a greater economic space than in the previous three years. Now we're going into a period of low oil income, and yet we've managed to facilitate that the municipalities of the next year get a growth that's on the level of the government that Stoltenberg announced in 2011 and 2012. With regard to the Nordic states, I fully agree that a good economy for the counties is also important for their efforts in the county municipalities. But let's look at Nordland. They had an operating result last year of 4.2 pst. on the national average. Troms had an operating profit of 4.8 p.p., which was above the national average. Only Finnmark had a growth that was lower than the national average.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e900	I record that the right-hand side is once again trying to hide behind operating results and technicalities when the reality is that in this case North Norway has to cut 400 million. kr in the county budgets following the conversion of the income system by the government. That's interesting, seen in relation to the fact that right before the 2013 elections, it promised that there would be a greater investment in transportation and in school. These are two tasks that are very much subject to the county councils. Here we see a growing gap between the needs that are, and the money to solve the problems. Boating routes are being cut, the maintenance run on the county roads is increasing, and many county municipalities now have to cut heavily in secondary education. The right has fulfilled its promises of tax cuts. Then my question is, why is it not as important for the Right to fulfill its promises of commerce and school?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e905	If you look at government budgets, you'll see that municipal economy has been more important to government than tax cuts. Tax reductions are also important because they help create safe jobs. Doing business makes it more profitable. If we're going to have more to share, we also have to have more to create. But let's go back to the Northern Norwegian states. If we look at the corrected free revenues – when we correct for different conditions – Nordland has 124 pst. of the national average, Troms has 120 pst., Finnmark has 122 pst. of the national average, while a county such as the Nord-Trøndelag has only 105 pst. This means that the Nordic states have a larger room for action — even when correcting for distance abuse — than others are elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e912	When the municipal reform was launched in the municipal proposal for 2015, it was suggested that the reform should be based on volunteering and local processes. The exception, which the Centre Party warned against, was very special situations in which individual municipalities would not stop changes that were considered appropriate for regional reasons. It is now said that the county should summarise and assess whether the decisions are in line with the objectives of the reform and advise on the municipal structure in its own country by 1 October. The role that the department has given to the county council has raised doubts as to whether the process guidance role has been reduced to the benefit of being a sensor on the municipal work and the conclusions they arrive at. Can the Council of State confirm that he still believes that the municipal reform should be based on volunteering and local processes, and that he therefore emphasises that the county councillors should sum up the local processes and give their recommendations in the pact with the Stortinget in 2014? [[The President clubs.]] If the answer is yes, the Council of State can confirm that the statesmen will receive the same message in the local... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e919	I think I've answered that question at least once a month in various debates in the Storting in the last two years – and also in reading articles. The starting point is the same today as it was when the reform was presented. Changes in the municipal structure are needed to ensure good services for citizens where they live today and in the future. Now we see that many municipalities are moving towards aggregation because they see that they stand closer together. It is still clear that the municipal reform is based on voluntary and good local processes, but, as the Stortinget has also been clear, there are exceptions in special situations. The mission that I have given to the statesmen is based on decisions in Stortinget, the leadership of the county council, namely that the county council should also make a recommendation. But it's the Stortinge that makes the decision, not the county. It's the Storting that does it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e926	If I can follow this up a little bit: the council says you have to change the structure, otherwise it won't be good enough. Anyone who believes that must also be willing to change the structure by coercion. If it is not true what it is said that this is necessary to ensure that the quality of the services will be good enough. It is not possible for a government council to look at it – that the quality of the service will not be good enough, but at the same time will not do anything about it? It's nice to look at the game that's going on right now. There are referendums and user surveys that have largely shown that people disagree with the government and Sanner that community mergers by coercion solve the problems. What's the reason why the Council of State, when he thinks you have to change the structure, is not willing to do it yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e933	I'm a little surprised that the Center Party, at least at national level, and SV is so concerned that we're going to say that it's forced when we've actually established that the reform is based on volunteering and good local processes. The parties should say that they agree. The need for municipal reform has been clear since Gunnar Berge and the Workers' Party put the matter on the agenda at the beginning of the 1990s. Then we've seen that the municipalities today are too small for the big challenges, for the big ones they have. Also in the Oslo area, where 13 town halls can be reached in 45 minutes – 13 town halls in 45 minutes – there is a need to look at larger municipalities in order to improve spatial and social development. I have to get away from the term game. I meet local politicians from all parties. They show leadership, and they're busy creating good services. They need to be honoured, not that this is characterised as a political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e940	I didn't say they're the ones who play games. I'm saying it's the government that's playing games about this. We're concerned with honesty. We believe that the instruments put in place should be reform-neutral and that municipalities that choose to stand alone should not be penalised. But we also do that because we want to strengthen the local economy strongly, so that we get quality of services, because that's what's the most important thing. I'm going to take another question, and it's about the interaction reform. The government is now signaling that it will put a rush and psychiatry into it. In this respect, I am concerned that the municipalities will not be able to build up a good enough offer for these patients locally until the reform is implemented. The second cooperation reform has worked to some extent. Some municipalities have done it – others have not done it. My opinion is that local trials should have been carried out first. You should have done that that time, and you should have done that this time. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make this a good reform for those who need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e949	Let me first answer the first question, that the income system should be reform neutral. I fully agree with that, and that is why we are making these changes. We cannot have an income system that concentrates an old structure, when a broad majority of the Stortinges believe that the time is ripe for change. Already when the Interaction Reform was launched by a former Labour Party Council, it was pointed out that larger municipalities are needed to provide good services to the population. This is precisely related to the need for larger trade unions and more specialists. After all, we are building up the provision of drugs and mental health in municipalities, with concrete grants that will enable municipalities to take over this responsibility. They are now also given predictability in the implementation of that reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e956	It's probably true that there's been a lot of good work done locally, but it's not because of the government, it's despite the government. In this context, the government has contributed to chaos, changing the rules of the game along the way, etc. It is also true that the Right has worked for this over several decades, as the Council of State has mentioned in several of its replies. That this effort has not produced results is due to a lack of good arguments. That's exactly what's behind it, and that's what we're seeing again when people vote no in the referendums. The Council of State repeats today – he has said many times before – that there is a need for change, but that it should be based on volunteering, and that exceptions should only be made in specific situations. At the end of the week, Sanner will meet the country's people. They become central to the further work. Can the Council of State Sanner unequivocally confirm that his message to the country's people in the closed rooms is going to be exactly what he has publicly spoken from the pulpit of the Great Government today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e967	The answer to that question is of course yes. There's no difference between what the council says in a closed and an open room. The councils are always prepared for what is said in an enclosed room to also come out into an open room. I am well aware that the Central Party parliamentary leader needs to characterise the government. But the work that local politicians are doing now, from all parties, also many excellent centre party rapporteurs – I would like to stress – they do because they are engaged in good services for their citizens. I believe it is our job to cheer them up and give them support in the work. I know that the leader of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, has done so, by saying that they support the local processes that are out there. That's our job, and that's the role I've had in the two years we've been working on the reform. And there are actually 148 municipalities where there have been yes in either referendums or population surveys – 207 municipalities where there has been no. There's a lot of contractions coming, and that's good for the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e975	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e978	I'll give the Council of State the right thing to do in honor of capable local politicians. That's what I do when I travel around the country. I also want to give all the other speakers the right thing to say that this is a question that people take for granted. This is not a debate about the local reform, but let me just repeat it, as we are at a very important calendar point in this reform: the Labour Party is in favour of municipal reform. We're to solve problems well for the population, and we're for processes that can lead to better solving problems. But I want to underline what our spokespersons have also said today, that when the premise is voluntary, for many reasons in the nation of Norway, I think it is very important for this house's credibility and policy credibility that there is consistency in that line. Out there, there's a sense of ambiguity about it, that the rules of the game are changing along the way, and it's unclear how the officials, the county officials, now, among other things. shall interpret results. I think we're about to be faithful to what was the starting point of this process, and that we're all the way in. And then I think that for many years to come, we're still going to be for a reform to be able to solve problems better for people. For those who do not have a policy as their main interest, the concept of a ‘municipal economy’ may seem quite distant. That's what I experience when I'm in debates. And in my conversations with people around the country, I use other words, first and foremost ‘child care’, ‘school’, ‘parent care’ and ‘near-environment’. What kind of offer do we want? Who takes responsibility for what? And what do we leave to each one? How do we ensure that everyone gets good offers, enough capacity and good quality? In the story of Norway, strong Community solutions are a red thread. We're getting more together than each of us in very important areas. We see from many surveys that the commitment and space of action to politicians in municipalities and counties plays a crucial role in the services of which we all benefit and enjoy. Every day thousands of employees all over the country go to work to give our kids a safe growth and the oldest a worthy old age. Local elected representatives have the primary responsibility, and in this way we ensure that the offer is adapted to local circumstances. Tasks should be carried out and decisions taken as closely as possible to those concerned. In this way, the tasks will be handled in the best possible way – in small municipalities, in medium-sized municipalities and in large municipalities. It brings us to the community economy: what we choose to do to solve these important problems, what ambitions we set ourselves for people to meet their needs, so that they can once again contribute to society through work, participation and social engagement. And here we see the distinctions in politics today. The government has since taken over the priority of using the economic space mainly for tax cuts. The Chairman of the KS confirmed in the hearing of the Committee in Stortinget that the government's arrangements would not provide room for improving the quality of school and care for the elderly. It's a bad investment in the future. We need, on the contrary, more resources for a vigorous early school effort, to provide care for the elderly, to receive an increasing number of older people and caregivers in a few years' time. And that's the sum of this that also makes our businesses productive. People can go to work, and they can create jobs and values. The Labour Party will increase the income of the municipal sector by 3 billion. kr for next year. We do this to enable municipalities to improve the quality of kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly. Of course, it is also about the fight against unemployment, as we saw in the financial crisis, where the municipalities were able to respond with potable projects that gave effect. If the Workers' Party's alternative government budget for 2016 had been given a majority in the Stortinget, municipalities' revenues this year would be 3 billion. kr higher. In addition, municipalities would have had more money for integration and housing measures. In the last two years, employment growth in the municipal sector has been record low, while areas of public welfare have to be addressed there. It's the wrong priority and the lack of bet. Population growth, cities that grow, more elderly, communities that need new jobs, settlement of refugees and climate change are some of the challenges that our society has to face. Community reform must be met, but in common with all these tasks, there is also money spent on it in the fissure layer. Then we need a government and a large majority that will play with the communities, which will enable the municipalities to solve the big problems, and that will show the willingness to give priority to the most important tasks first. I also think that the majority of the people are going to see when, hopefully, they change the majority in this room in one year. The Workers' Party will contribute to this by giving priority to a financial arrangement for municipalities that actually responds to the tasks to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e999	First, I want to correct a question I had before. Kongsberg is probably the largest central party-controlled municipality, but it is not a big deal. The management of the municipal proposition shows that there is a broad disintegration of the municipal sector’s important role as a foundation for the Norwegian welfare community, and not least of the municipalities’ position as the arena of strong local democracy. It is good to note that the government is continuing to strengthen its local government economy, so that municipalities can meet the challenges of increasing costs of population growth and increasing pension costs, as well as strengthening municipal welfare services. In contrast to the previous red-green government, it is important to point out that this government is spreading the frames in some way, so that an unrealistic picture of the situation is not created. This avoids large expectations that local politicians will be struggling to meet. The municipal sector will always face the need for priorities and the focus on efficient operation, and then it does not fit with red-green gloss, as it used to be. The government and the Storting are working on many important reforms, and the municipal proposal refers to both the municipal reform and the regional reform. Today, the Stortinget adopted a new income system for the municipalities, and a few days ago the Stortinget also dealt with a new divisional law and municipal law, such as the law. facilitates and facilitates border adjustments in the context of the municipal reform. When it comes to the community reform, I would like to pay tribute to the local politicians around the country who, in most places, have done an important job of putting in place the services requested by a large majority of the population. Now it's the decisions that stand for the future. There is a need for larger and stronger municipalities in Norway. Municipalities are important actors in the provision of public services to citizens. This requires stronger municipalities that will be able to solve even more and more tasks in the future than today. The size has also managed the regional notification recently. The size has determined that there should be a level between the municipalities and the state, and that there should be about ten regions. The further work on the municipal reform and regional reform will go hand in hand in the coming year, and there is no doubt that we are going to meet for an exciting year until this is decided next spring. The Government Party and the Left also win a multiplicity on the Stortinget for a new income system for municipalities. The new income system has been much better received than what the opposition threatened through the election campaign and against the presentation. It indicates that it hits quite well. The municipal reform facilitates a wider environment of competence across the country, and the government party and the Left secure multiples to reinforce the work of localising new and existing government jobs outside Oslo. This location is to be assessed particularly in new regional centres, including the major cities. One of the major issues created by the government party and the cooperation party during this period is the new suspension arrangement for the county road link. Started in 2014 with a committee comment from the government party and the cooperation party, and a good and constructive cooperation between these parties and the government allows us to put the crown on the work today. With the new holiday cancellation scheme, the county may partly finance such projects by means of the holiday link through the income system. The scheme provides for several bridge and tunnel projects to be realised on the county road network, so that municipalities and regions can be more closely linked in a better way than today. It will stimulate growth and value creation in coastal communities. The government also ensures, through new guidelines, that the county councils will not lose their income system when a ferry connection is curtailed by a road project without being completely disbanded. The guidelines specify that such projects are not covered by the holiday termination scheme. In my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, this is true of the Ålö connection. There's been a strong local commitment to getting holiday settlements to realize the Atløy connection, and especially the sayings of Frida Melvær in Askvoll Municipality have done a great job. Now it's up to the county to get this in place. This spring has been in the light of the major reforms. The municipal reform, the regional reform, the new income system for municipalities and the new zoning and municipal laws show that Norway is about to change. Some parties may well be outside everything that's new, the other parties are only partly with, but the majority are strong and clear. History will show that there was a civil government together with the cooperation party that provided the basis for a forward-looking municipal and regional structure that would facilitate better public service provision for the inhabitants, stronger local democracy and growth and development throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1037	One of the most important and challenging municipalities is to ensure good policies for young people and the elderly. If the municipalities are to do this, the government must have a better municipal structure than that laid on the table for 2017. The head of the KS, Gunn Marit Helgesen, was clear and clear at the hearing of the Municipal and Administrative Committee: KS believes that the government's municipal structure for next year will not provide room to strengthen the school and care for the elderly. When the government prioritizes tax relief for the most well-off in the welfare of municipalities, it becomes less for school and municipal welfare services. The government – and in particular the Advance Party – has promised for many years in the opposition that it will not be on the money for the care of the elderly. It has been shown to be written in true. One of the long-standing Kepphesters of the Advance Party, so-called state funding of municipal care for the elderly, has been attempted through a trial project. It's almost collapsed before it starts. The municipalities that first agreed to join the project have gradually escaped from the project, neck to head, one by one. Of the 18 municipalities that signed up, only 6 are left. Many municipalities will simply come out worse than they do today with the so-called bet from the government. Drukstad municipality would have lost 6 million. SEK per year, Narvik 40 million. kr. In bourgeoisly run Stavanger, both the Progress Party and the Right have categorically refused to join because the municipality would have lost several hundred million dollars to participate, according to the chairman of the Living Committee from the Right. The government's second initiative is the legalization of the right to hospital space. It's basically a good idea, but the truth is that you've already legalized the right to both the sick home and other people adapted to help when you need it. The leading healthcare professionals have strongly warned against the wording of the new bill, stating that it will weaken rather than strengthen the legal protection of the elderly. A wide range of consultation bodies, including the KS, the Health Directorate, the Norwegian Nurses' Association and the patient and user representatives, have both opposed this proposal and the so-called State funding previously mentioned. The last thing from the government is that the investment grant will be transferred to the municipalities so that they can no longer go to the renovation of hospitals, as many have mentioned in this debate. The reason is that grants for the construction of new sites will be given priority in order to achieve an assumed net growth. It's a reasoning that can't bear to be tried against reality. If a municipality sees need to build new ones instead of upgrading its old hospitals first, it will not be possible to do both without support – even if you get a transitional phase. Then you will have a situation where old places are likely to be phased out as new ones are built – and then you are equally far. Trondheim municipality, which has plans for both renovation and construction, has reported that the conversion costs their plans with over 100 million. kr, and that the plans can thus be difficult to implement. The Progress Party and the Right reject the fact that their performance projects for the care of the elderly have fallen and repeat rather than the misery descriptions of eight red-green years. It's an unobtrusive attempt to move focus from your own fault grip. In fact, during the red-green government, the municipal economy was significantly strengthened. Over 22,000 new annual shifts in the care and care sector, over 80pst, were awarded by the Competence Lift. of which, with relevant professional training. And even though we're honest with the fact that we didn't reach the number of new and refurbished nursing homes that we had as a goal, the last SSB figures show that they actually promised 12 292 places in the period 2008-2015, and it was built and renovated 7 694 places in the same period. In addition, there were many municipalities that under the red-green government had the economy to strengthen the home-based services. The Labour Party will, based on the experience we have gained, turn all the stones to create a good old age policy and equivalent services to the elderly. We will try out an ear-marked sector grant for care for the elderly against clear quality indicators and a trust reform that will provide less bureaucracy, increased trust in employees and stronger user involvement. We will build on trust in local competence and knowledge, quite different from the bureaucratic overarching that the government is now going to introduce, and to which both red and blue municipalities across the country have turned down. In the municipal proposal, the Workers' Party proposes that the revenue of the sector in 2017 be increased by 3 billion. in addition to the government's proposal. It's a bet as monks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1054	It's in the municipalities the welfare is produced. It is in the municipalities children and young people get their kindergarten and their first school years. It is in the municipalities our children and young people get their first cultural offer. There are in the municipalities all our voluntary teams and associations, and there are in the municipalities home help, nursing homes and other welfare services for our elderly. This means that municipalities have a lot of demands and a lot to live up to. This is what municipal politicians and employees in our municipalities know very well. City and local government politicians spend many hours working for their own municipality to provide the right and good services to the inhabitants. The employees of the municipalities' schools, hospitals, technical offices and administration do a good job, and many of the employees in the municipalities have a job that makes them have to go to work on Monday as Saturday and at all the days. The hospital is not closed, the fire service must be staffed and the water and sewage watch arrangements must be in place to mention something. The Labour Party, as has been said earlier here, has great ambitions on behalf of Norwegian municipalities, but we can't just have ambitions, we have to follow up with an economy that allows municipalities to deliver. We have to give our local politicians and municipal employees real opportunities to provide good and safe welfare services, as I hear many people here calling for and saying is important and right to have. But then there is the wrong way to go when you're actually weakening the local government's economy and putting in place an income system that doesn't meet the challenges that lie there. The growth in the municipal economy for 2017 proposed by the government is not that which can relate to bet. Rather, there is a real danger that the local government sector will end up with a negative room for action for 2017, when it introduces leaders like population growth, pensions and all of this into the calculation. Then the government imposes an efficiency requirement of about 1.2 billion. kr. I guess none of us have anything against efficiency, but my and many others' experience in the field of operating a municipality is that efficiency gains are being driven every day out there in the municipalities. It can almost seem as if the government has been sitting and thinking: what if we are proposing efficiency improvement? I don't think anyone's thought about it out there in the municipalities before. I do not know what it was like for Mr Njåstad, who is the former rapporteur, and also for Mr Lødemel, who has been rapporteur for many years. I was also there for a few years. It is possible that Njåstad and Lødemel as rapporteurs had a lot of money and could just waste with them. It was not my everyday life as rapporteur – far from it. Every day I was rapporteur, there were discussions in the administration and among politicians about how we could streamline, work smarter, get more for every single penny. But now the government shows up, at Sanner, and has thought that 'efficiency' is the funniest thing we can do, where we're picking up 1.2 billion. kr. It's a hopeless suggestion. Now it is no longer about ‘efficiency improvement’ in a number of municipalities; now it is about taking real cuts, and it is about increasing fees and property taxes at a high pace. That's what's real, and that's also what's been the result of the municipal economy that's been going on for the last few years. We need to give municipalities better opportunities to strengthen home care, schools, kindergartens, hospitals and cultural services. The Labour Party has proposals that will make a good contribution to it. Those who sit on municipal boards, those who sit in the polls, those who work in the municipalities, they know where the shoe prints, and they deserve a better financial arrangement than what we see the government propose here today. Three billion. kr more to the counties and municipalities, as the Workers' Party suggests, would give a good handshake to those who are in this every day. It wouldn't solve all the problems, but it would at least be a good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1073	Unemployment, uncompensated loss of tax income, and several changes in the income system that dramatically affect many municipalities — and the county — in Hordaland, make it difficult to facilitate good offers to the population and ensure future value creation. Hordaland is an industrial group where much of the industry is located scattered, with close proximity to natural resources. It requires good infrastructure in a country with a lot of geography, with a vulnerable railway network, which, because of race, has never been so much closed, and 19 ferry connections where several ferries are so old that they do not provide the predictability required. It affects, among others: Austevoll municipality, which is the largest municipality without mainland connection, but also accounts for the largest value creation in the country per capita. The conversion of the income system is dramatic for the most disadvantaged municipalities. The proposed changes to the data base for the ‘inhabitants’ criterion are dramatic for Hordaland. The whole 44,4 pst. of the total change concerns Hordaland. That means $40 million. kr less – and without transitional arrangements. It marvels at the fact that a change in the data base can appear so much in one particular state, which is usually calculated to cover 10 pst. Well one has been capable of fortification, but we did not know that we were so capable. Both the county and the undersigned have asked in written questions for an explanation of how this is possible. The answer we've been given is that you trust the data base. The county also had a reduction of 115 million. kr because of the high number of private secondary schools, which have been supported by former civil servants. The county does not have the right to do anything with the private schools when they now have to adapt the school offer as a result of the tight financial framework. The private are mainly in Bergen and in study-specialising subjects. The county council now has a very limited scope for action to offer young people in the districts real opportunities for the choice of future education and occupation. They're forced to move as 16-year-olds. Professionals are more expensive, and Hordaland as an industrial group still needs young people who choose a profession. Industry is in transition and the country must ensure recruitment to the value-creating industry in the West. Marine and process industries are still scattered — naturally: they follow the natural resources. Youth in the city must also receive a public study-specific offer and not be forced to pay for education in private schools. Hordaland is facing major challenges in refurbishment of collective services in the Bergen region. It is well known that the city between the seven mountains has great challenges with air quality. The city is also so compact that a greater part of the future growth in transport needs to be resolved by other means than using private cars. The county also had a reduction of 50 million. kr as a result of taxes and ‘morous taxes’ on gas buses. When the main connection between Bergen and Oslo is closed due to race, it is rv. 7 through Hardanger, which is a bypass. This is a tourist attraction because large distances are so narrow, between steep mountain sides and fjords, but those who use it daily know it's even more rascal than E16. The county council does not have a framework for the proper race of the road. For the Workers' Party, it is important to provide both counties and municipalities with framework conditions that enable them to provide good services and innovation, both public and private. We support the demand for efficiency – and this is happening all the time – but I believe that the benefits must benefit municipalities and residents. Right-wing promised better conditions for the big cities, but we don't feel they've delivered, at least not in Bergen, even though the Left and Christian People's Party is moving it in the right direction. Like other big cities, Bergen is struggling with great challenges. In Bergen, school construction is particularly important, but also the development of care for the elderly. The major cities, but also smaller municipalities like Ulvik, experience changes in the investment grant, which former speakers have been involved in. It is challenging to be asked to put things on hold, in the process of bundling the municipalities and thus to adapt where to build future care places, and at the same time to have a change that makes one unforeseeable. So the Workers' Party is asking both government parties and cooperation parties to take a closer look at this transitional arrangement, even if it is ten years old. In conclusion, municipalities and county councils must have a framework to ensure good services to the inhabitants, but also to ensure good value creation throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1096	To the speaker just before me, I would like to say that it is a little ironic to hear his description of the big city policy of this government when one has seen that it is this government that makes sure that you finance 50 pst. of the major extension projects in the major cities, which have benefited from urban environmental agreements and housing. We see that for the first time it is reported that more new dwellings are being started than in many years. And even the speaker belongs to a party that has so far managed to stumble through an Oslopacket 3, which you cannot afford even after it has been negotiated. But it's maybe a debate we can take another time. Over to what I wanted to talk about in the community proposition. It concerns settlement. When the Right Party and the Advance Party took over the government power in 2013, we inherited a great aftermath on the settlement of refugees. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party in the government had not done a good enough job to settle refugees who had already received a residence permit. They now sat with life waiting, completely passive. After this government took over, this work has speeded up. It has happened in a time when the pressure has been great at the same time. The municipalities settled in excess of 11,000 refugees in 2015, and there is an increase of 46 pst. from 2014. This year the municipalities have agreed to settle over 16 000 refugees. That work is also well under way. Then someone might wonder why I'm talking about housing, when we've already had a debate on immigration and are going to have a debate on housing. This is because housing work is primarily about municipal policy. It's in the municipalities people are going to settle, and that's where we need to have the most important measures. And even though municipalities have increased their housing in recent years, it needs to be further increased. It is particularly challenging to settle the youngest single minor refugees. In 2015 and 2016, the government has had a scheme of a general additional grant to municipalities in the case of the settlement of refugees. In 2016, municipalities also receive an additional grant of NOK 100000 per resident single minor. This is municipal policy; this is the everyday life of municipal politicians in terms of integration. Of course, a significant factor for housing is also the availability of adequate housing. This government has ensured an increase in the grant of rental dwellings. Furthermore, this government has provided a number of simplifications in the Planning and Building Act, so that we have gained more speed on the housing construction. These are important measures that help municipalities plan their housing work for the coming years and not just have a year-to-year think-tank. Furthermore, this government has simplified the legislation so that many more people can rent out a part of their own housing. What does this show? Well, we can always have debates where you point to a lot of good intentions of speeding up housing, but what we see is that where the red-greens have had a lot of good intentions and slogans, this government has actually delivered in this area. And these things are connected. Another important factor for municipalities in this work is predictability. This has emerged in the dialogue I myself have had with many municipalities when I have traveled around. Not least, KS has also given clear signals about this. For this reason, I would like to emphasise that the government in the municipality bill proposes to continue the additional grant in the case of the settlement of refugees and lone minors in 2017. It is also announced that the Government of the State Budget for 2017 will consider whether the current system of reimbursement of municipal child protection costs to lone minors should also be included as a permanent grant. The opposition often uses the opportunity to criticise the Right Party and the Advance Party for not doing enough for the settlement work. The working party has suddenly got a lot more money than before to settle, SV wants to introduce forced residence, and the centre party believes as usual that everything was better before. Therefore, it is timely to ask the red-green representatives to make an honest comparison between their own efforts and that of this government. I am sure that many will get such a dull taste in their mouths that in the name of honesty they will end up with their light and cheap rhetoric and criticism in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1115	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1118	It's been a strange experience hearing the government parties the last year when they're talking about local democracy and shifting power. The reality is a completely different one. At the point after point, power and influence are moved and taken from among others. the counties and the regional elected representatives. The most important thing is that the economic space in the regions is reduced — consistently. The money that the states themselves can spend on what they themselves think makes sense will be less and less cut through regional development funds, a new income system and a pressurised local economy. An example of this is the government budget and income system for 2016. Nordland, Troms and Finnmark count a total of 389 million. kr on it. Counties with a large geographic extent, scattered residence and business loss. It provides for a significant transfer of funds from the north to the south, which is not in line with the words of the North Sea bet. In the name of honesty, I have to say that in the field of transport, there has been a slight increase in the funds of the northernmost states, but it is financed by the part of the country itself through cuts in the transport budgets and cut off regional development funds. The government gives with one hand, but takes two hands out of the county. It takes from the part of the country and the local people elected to rule themselves. And if we're talking about regional development funds -- maybe it could be a more exciting concept of just that money -- then this is a means that local people can use better, smarter and more effectively than if it's going to go through Sanner's state minions. In the north, for example, no Arctic Race of Norway or NorthNorwegian Travel Life AS was possible if no regional development funds had been available. And if someone from the government parties is wondering why I and many with me react to exactly these things, it's because this is negative in itself and comes to the top of an evolution with increasing centralization. We have seen a wide range of proposals for centralisation in the districts and in North Norway in particular: fisheries directorate, veterinary institute, food supervision, tax offices, plans for centralisation of innovation Norway, universal service – the list is longer, I could have continued. So the state budget, the municipal bill and the income system come to the top of it all. In fact, if there is to be power locally and regionally among the elected representatives, they must have the opportunity to rule. That's why the Workers' Party proposes 3 billion. more to the municipalities than to the government to invest in good local projects – and not to any government council in Oslo has decided to bet on locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1129	I would like to start with the previous speeches, Martin Henriksen. The Labour Party is good at analysing and predicting demographic developments and economic performance. But let me mention three reforms that the Workers' Party has been behind, where the intention has been very good, and that have all actually agreed on: the responsibilities reform, or the HVPU reform, from 1988, which was carried out in 1991, the cooperation reform and the guarantee of dignity, which would provide 15 000 places of care and nursing homes. Responsibilities reform has been carefully evaluated. The situation of the mentally retarded is that we are not on target, 25 years after it came into force. There are major deficiencies out there, and the municipalities have not taken full responsibility for ensuring a good offer. Several reports say that health services must be active and out-of-office in order to organise services for people who have little ability to seek help. We are not able to have such a health care system in Norway today. The focus of the interaction reform was the same. One should move responsibility to the municipalities, which have the legal responsibility today for public health, prevention and to provide fewer hospital admissions. We're in the situation that the municipalities are still using the hospitals and the state in a blackmail game. The National Audit Office has recently reviewed the first years of the interaction reform and, unfortunately, the municipalities are not on their way. The instant help beds are an example of that. So we're still in a state of emergency with regard to medical care, which is not well organized. The municipalities are not able to make sure that we have uniformed medical cars, that we have enough room to accommodate patients on weekends and evenings, and we have a challenge to recruit doctors for medical services. With regard to the guarantee of dignity, where one was to build 15 000 dwellings, the municipalities have not taken that responsibility, and in the situation we are in now, we need to discuss how to organise this. It's not the money it's on. How are we going to get Kommune-Norway to do what Stortinget has as ambition? That's the discussion we have to take now, and the volunteer we see out there. The citizens are not willing to take responsibility for how to organise this. Now the Storting must take that responsibility. The new income system is one of the answers to that, but we are still far from achieving the sustainable organisation of the Norwegian welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1140	I think everyone in this room agrees that it is in the municipality the most important welfare is created. Then it is important that we ensure the municipalities the economy they need to provide the welfare of the quality and content that the inhabitants deserve. When I talk to the rapporteurs in East-Agder, they say, on the contrary. They do not get what they need to provide the best possible services to their inhabitants. In the South, we face living conditions challenges, and we need a stronger safety net and welfare provision, not a weaker one. Then it is strange that in the government's new income system, 10 out of 15 municipalities lose their way. It is also remarkable to read that the objective of the new income system is to facilitate an equivalent offer across the country. This is remarkable because, among other things, Tvedestrand municipality, which is now on the ROBEK list, gets 2.1 million. kr less with this arrangement. There will be no more equivalent services, nor will there be better living conditions. In the municipal bill, you can read that the financial arrangement is to provide room for action and to strengthen the service provision. It doesn't, because it doesn't help much with nice words for Ola who needs help to stay at home as long as he can, when home help is cut because the municipality has no money to give more hours than a fairly minimal number. There's very little help with 20-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr to the richest of the country when the Hansen family does not have kindergarten, because the municipality has Nor does it help for little Siri that the proposition says to ‘reach the best possible well-being’, when she is not caught well enough by the adults in kindergarten because the local government has lifted the local staffing norm and allowed more children per adult due to poor municipal economy. There is absolutely no help in this country being governed by a government that gives the municipalities and county municipalities 3 billion. kr less than they had received from the Workers' Party. This is the reality of Municipality-Norway. These are examples taken from my home municipality, Evje and Hornnes. Not only have we spent a lot of money doing a community merger that the neighbouring municipalities do not want, but we are experiencing unemployment among the population and growth in the population due to asylum recipients and refugees. We should strengthen the welfare offer. Then it's not about robustness or the size of the municipality, it's pure economy. The Workers' Party wants to strengthen the local economy. We do that because we choose well-being in front of the tax haven.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1158	The well-being that we adorn every year on international rankings over good countries to live in is the municipality that gives us first and foremost. They are the ones who do well to be able to have kids in primary school, kids in kindergarten, and that older people get a good care offer. It is also the case that many inhabitants of Norway are satisfied with the offer given to them by the municipalities, and in particular the smaller municipalities that are named for the good municipalities to live in year after year. But there are also major needs in the municipal sector, and more hands and resources are needed. For this reason, today's Centre Party is promoting proposals for a significant increase in the financial framework for municipalities. We look with concern at how the majority is going to change the income system, change that is going to make a negative impact on many municipalities and force them to reduce just the welfare offer to their inhabitants. I noticed that the representative Njåstad a little contemptuously mentioned some of the changes you are making, such as reducing subsidies to the town halls. Now it is the case that the Borge Committee, on its side, which assessed the so-called basic grant on a professional basis, has not called this a council building grant, but said that the basic grant is: ‘an important contribution to the provision of equivalent services in different sized municipalities.’» It's something quite different than a councilhouse grant. It's a little hectic when a majority in the Grand Duchy is going to try to insist that what's going on is still successful. That's why it's also getting a little hectic about the rose of the municipal reform that some speakers have had today. The representative of Njåstad said there are 22 municipalities that have now decided to merge. Yes, it is. And there's 84 that have decided not to merge. There are 123 municipalities that have said no in a referendum. There are 32 municipalities that have said yes in a referendum. Then there are 25 municipalities that have a slightly fragmented result, where it is very tight, or where there have been many different alternatives that make it difficult to interpret the result. But it's 123 clear no and 32 clear yes. Election attendance has been high and good. Obviously, we have seen some examples of poor electoral participation, but electoral participation has also been very good, including many places. now last in Lesja, with well over 70 pst. The problem is that the government has gone backwards into the community reform work. Instead of first clarifying tasks and economics and then discussing aggregation, they have chosen the opposite. They've drawn the map, and now they're also having trouble listening to the people. And there is a saying with Sven Egil Omdal in Stavanger Aftenblad: «Democracy is in many ways a fine form of government, as long as it does not allow the people to interfere too much in governance.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1179	The working party has high ambitions for better quality in well-being, care and schooling in the municipal sector. That is why we want to strengthen the economy of the local government sector. In this way, municipalities will be better able to develop key welfare services for citizens, such as kindergarten, school, care for the elderly, health services, transport, etc. Therefore, in its 2017 proposal, the Labour Party proposes to increase the framework by 3 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. Of this, 2 billion is going to go. SEK to primary municipalities and 1 billion. kr to counties. This will allow the county councils to invest in measures in areas where it is not as good today, such as county roads, ferry and fast boat services and, in particular, better quality in advanced training with a specific professional focus, which is not least occupied by this hall. The increase in the counties is particularly important for my home country, which is coming out badly with the new cost key that today's government introduced. If it does not change, the Nordic region alone will have 282 million from 2020 onwards. kr less per year for welfare and transport measures. Earlier in the debate today, I heard that the result for 2015 for Nordland was used against the need for increased frameworks for the Northern Norwegian states. That's what I think is alarming. The result of the Nordic states shows that they had to take responsibility for the Right and the Advance Party's policy and had to govern it. But this doesn't mean they don't have to cut. And as mentioned earlier, they still have a 282 million challenge. in 2020. They're not in charge of deficits. Then they are responsible and deliver results. I also point out that today we have a government that follows up the transport plan of the Stoltenberg administration, and that is good, but at the same time increases the lag on the county roads. It's now estimated to be 62 billion. after-sleeping on the county roads. And just for the three Northern Norwegian states, it's 20 billion. kr. In addition, large sums are added to racial protection. No, the government has provided a weak financial structure for the municipal sector. After expenditure on population growth and pensions and the strong leadership of the government, there is little room for action in this community proposition. The head of the KS clearly stressed that municipalities are not strengthened, there is no room for improving the quality of school and care for the elderly. It is not better to point out that a requirement for efficiency has been introduced. I can promise you that the municipalities have been operating with efficiency for many years. I have been the rapporteur myself. So it is not easy to boast about operating municipalities and counties on this basis in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1196	Some of the most important work done in the community health service may be the prevention of children and young people. We need to equip children and young people to be safe on themselves and their future prospects. There is an important arena for the school, but also the prevention services, which we rely on to be available as early as possible, so that small problems do not grow into large and perhaps disease-like disorders are important. From a decline – I repeat: a decrease – of nine health-care-sister-yearly works in 2013, we now see that there are considerably more health-care-sisters employed in the municipalities. KOSTRA figures from October 2015 show a growth of 157 health oyster farms during our government. After that time, we have invested further in these services in the budgets, and so far, the municipal framework has been reinforced by 667 million. kr. In addition, an earmark of 100 million is added. kr, which rewards the municipalities that have already used the free resources to equip these services well. What we see now in the municipalities is very happy, because the municipalities now feel confident that we have a government that provides them with a framework to invest heavily in prevention services for children and young people. The government's bet does not stop in health sisters. It applies to the entire prevention healthcare system. Psychologists are also important here, and the funding scheme for psychologists has been reinforced, and the state is taking on 300,000 kroner of the costs of each psychologist that the municipality considers until we legislate on this competence in 2020. Yesterday, the youth health strategy was launched. It is important because it shows how authorities, municipalities and services can contribute together to ensure good growth conditions for children and young people. Provision shall be made for better accessibility of low-threshold services, more multidisciplinary cooperation and good patient trajectories for children and young people through healthcare. The municipalities have a great deal of competence and responsibility to direct their efforts towards where the population needs it most, and towards where children and young people need it most. Most of all, I want bigger municipalities in the future, because we are totally dependent on equipping the prevention services for children and young people by having good multi-disciplinary teams around the children. Today, many professionals sit a lot alone. There are half midwives and half of the health sisters in the municipalities. It can be vulnerable. We need to reduce the differences between municipalities. We need professionals to work together on a larger team. The figures for 2015 show that municipalities have good finances. They went with a profit of 12 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. I am pleased that we have a government that is betting on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1209	The municipal politicians are the ones who know the situation best in their municipality. I'm therefore wondering about the large-scale earring for which the red-greens now make themselves spokespersons. It is not only an over-test of local democracy, but also a denial of the elected representatives. In fact, we believe that the elected representatives can give priority to their municipality. Maybe there's a psychologist or a physiotherapist there's a need in the school health service, not a health nurse this time. It is now 50 years since the last time the municipal borders were pulled up. Then it was because the municipalities were going to handle the introduction of nine-year primary schools. Since then, municipalities have been given far larger, more and more complex tasks, including: mental health and intoxication tasks. There is a need for a community reform. Of course it has to happen. Psychiatric health and drug use have long been under-prioritized and excluded from major and important reforms. That's what this government has changed. Psychiatric disorders and drug problems have, unfortunately, been, and are still, a taboo in many parts of the population. But now the municipalities have been given the means to follow up this work, and there is an escalating plan for drugs with a frame of up to 2.4 billion. kr. And already for 2016-2017, it is granted 795 million. kr. Competence development in municipalities is needed to address drug problems. Good housing services are needed, there is a need for work training, and there is a need for better cooperation between specialist health services and community health services. The funds may also be allocated to non-governmental organisations such as: social entrepreneurship. It's very gratifying that an activity that's restless, that's street football, is on the march. It gives joy and harmony and actually gives a restless free minute, as a person said to me. Street teams in football, like some of the big football clubs, Lillestrøm, Stabæk and Stromsgügset, work with, together with drug organizations and volunteers, have been allocated funds from the Health Directorate. This is a good thing when you're going to work on the rush. Psychologist competence is also an important part of the primary health service of the future, and, as the previous speaker said, the government has increased the grant to psychologists. It provides more predictable and less bureaucratic reporting when the law enters into force in 2020. With the big complex tasks, we need a community reform. Although not all municipalities see it now, this will not end.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1224	The government's scheme for the change in the income system of municipalities and counties has had a number of weaknesses. This year it is the income system of municipalities. New income system for county municipalities was adopted in 2015, and we are still struggling with the aftereffects that are solved through compensation schemes. It is particularly problematic that the Ministry does not follow up proposals for adjusted sub-cost keys for boat and ferry, as they have previously announced, but says that they are now aiming to present it in the municipal bill for 2018. On the other hand, I am pleased that a holiday-relief scheme is finally in place for a period of up to 40 years. The centre party and SV proposed this when processing the cost keys of the county municipalities in the municipal proposition for 2015. The majority of the Committee followed up last year, and now finally the government is following up on this. The centre party wrote in a comment on the treatment of new cost keys for county municipalities that the proposals were based on a number of factors that were not adequately explained. This has led to some major changes between the counties. The central party shares the assessment made by other parties in the suspension and is concerned about the impact of the decline in revenue on high school and public transport operations. Thus, there is a need to strengthen the appropriations of the most vulnerable counties to compensate for the under-coverage they receive through the adopted changes in the cost keys. In the government's 2017 proposal for a framework, the county councils only benefit from EUR 300 million. kr. In its alternative arrangement, the Central Party proposes an increase of 1 billion. SEK to the counties in addition to this. The Government believes that county councils should strengthen their role as development actors. It's in agreement with the Center Party. But then the counties have to have the resources to ensure good infrastructure and prerequisites to contribute to education and business development. In these areas, the government is failing. We are spending money on increased maintenance and renewal of the county road network, and we will return with money to the regional development work of the counties when we deal with the state budget for the autumn. The centre lot will also return to which counties lost on the conversion of the income system of the county municipalities. In particular, coastal regions shall be compensated until a new and better justified cost key is in place. Of course, the centre party is opposed to the proposal that the small municipality grant should be included in a new regional policy grant. We believe that the small municipality grant is an important part of the overall and the balance of the municipal income system. In the event of an incurrency, we are not involved in a note from the Workers' Party and SV about this. The centre party rejects the introduction of a new income system for municipalities based on government proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1247	The municipal bill gives a good increase to the municipalities, says the representative Njåstad in his post. There's a strong doubt about that. The opposite might be more right. Then he goes on to say that it's not obvious, because you have a low oil price etc. But Njåstad and his party had no trouble figuring out 20 billion. Tax relief this year – mostly for those who have the most in the past – but obviously has problems finding money for the community, for the municipalities. Then the representative continues Njåstad and says that it is entirely in place with efficiency measures in the municipalities, which can replace for example. taxes on property. I have to wonder a little about the reality of the representative Njåstad. It is not long since he himself was rapporteur. Obviously he must have forgotten that, or they have completely different states in the West than we have anywhere else in the country. The rapporteurs I know have worked on efficiency measures day and day into every municipality – at least in Eastfold, and I know them all. You have to wonder. I record that there are a number of representatives who are very concerned about the red-green government. We get to say that's good. At least they fall back on statements that are both six, seven and eight years old, and well that. I think it is nice that the representative Jensen correctly states that the municipalities that do not want to join others should be penalised financially. They're supposed to be whipped in place. But then the representative continues Jensen and says that the Workers' Party has turned off the light in the municipal reform debate. No, the representative Jensen is very wrong. My experience is that out in the municipalities it is the workers' party representatives who may have been in line to discuss the municipal reform and how to get better services for the inhabitants. That we have ended up with a different position from what the representative Jensen thinks is right, it must be an honest matter. But to claim that it is the Workers' Party in the municipalities that has turned off some light in a debate on municipal reform – more errors cannot be taken. Then I record that the inhabitants of Østfold are not getting promised as the Advance Party and the Right in the election campaign. I just mentioned randomly that the municipality of Spydeberg will lose 4.5 million after the calculations. SEK, Ashim 2.4 million. kr, Eidsberg 3 mill. kr and Hobøl 4 mill. kr. This was not what was promised in Eastfold by the Right and the Advance Party in the election campaign, but that is what they get. They get cut off in the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1260	There is an important debate for Kommune-Norway, for now the framework for care and schooling is being laid. It is precisely the services that citizens experience in everyday life, and therefore it is important that we have a predictable framework. It is also important that we now get the income keys that are rolled at regular intervals, so you can't leave yesterday's system in a drawer and dust. When mobility is greater than ever, and there is also pressure on, for example. social welfare and social policy instruments, it is important to take account of the fact that the world is changing. Then I have to say it surprises me that, among other things. SV and the Workers' Party are no larger drivers to put in place larger municipalities, especially in view of the challenges of care and care, where there are mostly 15 pst. positions that you get to start with, and therefore there are major problems in recruiting. There is no doubt that larger municipalities could also have provided a larger and wider professional environment where they could not least also have offered larger job rates. For my part, this is also about equality. I think it is remarkable that the same parties put lids on exactly that, because the recruitment of professionals outside the municipality is also about equality. The districts will become multicultural in the future, and it will require municipalities to have greater and wider professional competence than today. Therefore, larger trade unions are needed that are able to provide exactly the type of services that we are engaged in. The left has also been very concerned about providing good and predictable frameworks for county municipalities, because the county councils are the owners of our secondary schools. Therefore, it is with a little wonder that I hear that someone points out that it has been better what was actually in the drawer before it came. We've been involved and adjusted, because the Left has been busy giving predictable frameworks to the high schools. I have to say that it is quite remarkable in this debate, when some from the Workers' Party point out that today's government only fills in a little bit of the gift package from the Labour Party Government, the former highways, with a wrapping on which it was scarcely gift paper, and which turned out to be a billion bill to present county municipalities. I think we have to be honest about what we have to contribute here, because that gift package cost the county councils so much, and then it's no wonder that we're not in the goal of filling up the holes that the labor party government sent to the county councils. Then it is that we want a regional reform. It requires new cost keys for the future. We are willing to take part in this, and we also show that in the comment on the matter that we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1271	SV allocates the most money to the municipal sector, and we do so precisely because we want quality in school and care for the elderly, because we want to be able to employ enough professionals. That's what's important, and it doesn't have something to do with the size that the representative from the left was now up and saying. The municipal minister just stood on the pulpit and said that the big municipalities around the cities also had problems. So it remains for the representative of Skelstad to put figures on the table that show that there is less likelihood of good care, good jobs and good employer policy in the small ones than in the large municipalities. It is probably not the size it depends on there either, but both will and political priority, not least from the Storting. That priority makes SV, unlike Left, which has supported a government that spends the big money on tax bills to the richest. The representative of Kapur was up and talking about housing in the municipalities. Yes, it is true that more people are now settled, but waiting times are increasing dramatically. It is quite outrageous to hear that when SV wants the municipalities to settle those that the state gives residence, the representative Kapur calls it ‘compulsory settlement’. It's getting stuck in reception that's coerced. It's to put his whole life on hold that's coerced. So we have to solve that. We also have to make sure that the children are settled. Then we have to increase the compensation of municipalities to settle the children to 100 pst. We also have to make sure those who are disabled and who are now sitting on reception for a long time because the municipalities can't afford to pay what it costs to receive them. That scheme must also be increased. I think the majority here in this Chamber should thank – not the sea, but the opposition – for preventing the removal of people's rights for many of the refugees, who are injured by the war and disabled people, who, by the system proposed by the government, had lost their rights in popular rights, for example. disability pension. It had been expensive for the municipalities, and then no one had lived. Then to the theme earring, and first to the Orme Johnsen. When SV proposes money to the school health service, it is wrong when Ørmen Johnsen says that it is only for health sisters. It's up to the municipalities to spend that money to strengthen the school health service, whether it's health sisters, psychologists or who it is. But the point is that we're earmarking the money, because the experience from the child protection campaign showed that it was necessary, and so is it in this area. If Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen had checked their numbers on how many health sisters have been hired, she would have seen that there is a very different relationship between the sum you have deposited and the number of employees you have received. SV trusts most of the municipalities. That's why we suggest that they get a greater share of the total economy in Norway, and that's what they should be earmarked for, but most of it in free income.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1286	The Right Party and the Advance Party have been offensive in promising more and better quality in school and care for the elderly. But those election commitments, we can see after today's debate, are not followed up with money to the municipalities and county councils, which are to offer to provide these services. When the Council of State uses percentages and statistics to tell us how much money the Northern Norwegian county municipalities have, it has no sense of resounding in reality out there. The Minister of Knowledge has been high on the ground to send expert assistance to North Norway. It's all right, and the experts are very welcome. But what the county councils need to do to raise the quality and to help more students complete secondary education are the experts who are going to work in school every day: qualified teachers, good school leaders and the other staff who are going to help get our students through. As far as care for the elderly is concerned, the Progress Party has clearly forgotten what they said before the elections, that care for the elderly would cost what it would cost. Now the majority of people are going to adopt a municipal scheme for the next year, so there is no room for improving the quality of care for the elderly. Then I also record that the Right Party and the Advance Party have some problems knowing what kind of foot they're going to be on in the balance between government and local democracy. There's a lot of dilemmas about this, and we're going to admit it. However, in order for municipalities to provide care for the elderly, they must first of all have an economic armshake and then have the freedom to do what is necessary, and it varies from municipality to municipality what is needed. In some places more people are needed in home-based care, in others there is a need to invest in welfare technology; in some municipalities there is a need for new health homes; in other municipalities there is a need to clean them up. It is important that the Storting takes that into account, and that the individual municipality can do what is needed there. The idea of state governance has played down, it doesn't work. Then I also record that the Right Party and the Advance Party, which for a few months ago believed that legislating children's and youth councils would be too much of an intervention in local democracy that they could go for it, will now send in the statesmen to test the municipalities on the structural issues. I record that both the Right Party and the Advance Party made choices to reduce the influence of the County State. Now they want to strengthen it strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1299	The center party is agreed with those who think that a lot of good work has been done locally. This is not because of the government's management, but because of the unyielding behaviour of the government. The fact that the Court’s political efforts in terms of municipal convergence over the past 30 years have not produced results has resulted in a lack of good arguments. The fact that the Right has spent 30 years does not give the local government plenty of time to deal with such important questions for the future – it is going to be urgent. The government reformer has not provided expected results in government agencies. The use of resources – a cork in the hub, in the police or in the defense – stands out as optimal. The state takeover of hospitals has also not been a success story. But instead of learning from errors and results that have not been achieved, one is running on with new reforms for centralisation and austerity. In the municipal reform, municipalities are required to create new maps – the new tasks did not come. And in the interview, the department presented a new, theoretical and partly incomprehensible proposal for income system, which created great uncertainty and confusion. It is unlikely that a reform for which the Right has worked for 30 years is so bad foreshadowed. The result is more and more a chaotic failure in relation to the dimensions of the right part. The behaviour of the government and the state councils towards the municipalities and the populace in the municipalities is disrespectful. But there is great respect for the work done in the municipalities. State Council Sanner said in the debate earlier today that people in the municipalities carry out these processes because they are busy providing good services for the future. My impression is that a lot of municipalities have shared the processes because the majority of them have ordered them to do it. At least that's what they're saying to me. On what do state councils build their statement? And does the Council of State have figures of how many municipalities that would carry out these processes without demands from the majority of the population and pressure from the state, which is now getting so much power? The official state is at full speed back in. Or is this simply – as so much as anything else – a loose claim from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1312	I almost have to comment on some of the greetings we have received, especially from the Workers' Party. When Pedersen's representative talks, he could almost get the impression that the municipalities get less money next year than they have this year, but it's the opposite that's the fact. We're spending more money on the municipalities. When a deduction from demographic and pension costs is made, they have more money left to go with. Presenting it as lean becomes a little bit special. The representative Pedersen was also involved in the care of the elderly, and that the Progress Party would put more money into place – she used the words ‘cost what it would cost’. We have said that we should try out the experiment scheme with an estimate, so that there is a need for the elderly to control what money comes to each municipality. I register that there are surprisingly few municipalities that have agreed to receive extra money for the care of the elderly. When the Workers' Party has more than 200 vocabularies, they have a large part of the responsibility that municipalities do not want to get the money. The workers' party leaders who are not looking for the scheme can not complain about too little money, because then they have said no when the Stortinget made extra money available to care for the elderly. So I also found it a bit funny that the Labour Party on page 13 of the setting criticises the government for taking the credit for a good tax intake in 2015. Leave a page out, they take the credit for a good tax intake in 2011 and 2012. In that case, one must compare the years with each other and not on the one hand say that this happened for any reason other than the government, while in their time only the government was responsible for a 10 billion. kr more in the two years. I also have to comment a little bit on the representative Lauvås, who is wondering what planet I am on. I think very well when I was a spokesperson. It was the same years that Lauvås was the spokesperson in Marker. I think they're both thinking back to the KS collections, where we're looking for the red-green government for many of the years. There was a debate not so very different from the one that is now: we should all like to have more money for our inhabitants. We didn't get what we asked for at that time either – as it has always been, that spokesmen and local politicians want more money to be available than they get. Then, of course, we had an enormous pressure on efficiency in the municipalities. I think very well that in my time we chose to streamline to remove the property tax. I would like to know that several municipalities had done as we did in Austevoll at the time, that a non-obligation of the inhabitants to pay property taxes, which are unfair and unfair, but that one rather operates more effectively under municipal law. When you see statistics on the number of municipalities that charge taxes on ownership and the number of municipalities that have outsourced services, for example, there is a great potential for municipalities to operate more efficiently. That we point to it in this setting is not unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1333	I have also recorded several posts in this municipal proposition debate where red-green politicians, for example. represented by the representative, Martin Henriksen, gives a form of illiteracy description of what is allegedly bad in our northern counties. It is true that we are doing the conversion of the income system to the county municipalities – an over-ripe change that the red-greens agreed should be done, but that they were just left in the drawer. But I want to remind you that Nav on June 3 reports that there are 2 psts. – record low – unemployment in Troms, and that companies lack skilled labour. Sometimes when you hear the Workers' Party, you should think that this is because the government has centralized away the jobs, and that almost there are no things going on – that there are neither workers nor other things there. But that's not why: it's because there's a policy in this country that makes businesses look after people, and there's a shortage of labour. So it's going well in many places in the country. You shouldn't think that when you listen to individual speakers from the red-greens. Then I must be allowed to comment on the representative Lauvås – this is more of a correction of something that must be a manifest misunderstanding. Lauvås gives me statements – I should have suggested that there are workers' party rapporteurs locally who have so-called turned the light off in the Labour Party's municipal reform debate. I haven't been close to suggesting it. On the contrary: I have used speaking time today to highlight skilled workers' party rapporteurs who want community mergers, but who are calling for clarity from their own party. That is what I have requested when the Ålesund rapporteur says that she has been critical of the Workers' Party in the matter – not proud of the Workers' Party's management of the municipal reform – or when the Harstad rapporteur, Marianne Bremnes, says: ‘I wish the Workers’ Party had guts enough to participate in this municipal reform. We have to dry to say that we want this." These are brilliant examples of workers' party rapporteurs who want something, but who have called for clarity from their own party. That's a clarity that several of us are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1347	For the Left, it's important that we keep talking about welfare. A high level of well-being is to be produced as closely as possible to the inhabitants of the municipalities. Over the next few years, we are facing major challenges in the municipalities, with an ageing population in the districts and fewer and fewer young people able to serve the ageing population. If we're going to get this going together, we're going to have to organize the map better. That is why we must continue to talk about how well-being is to be organised and produced. The 770 million. The Christian People's Party and the Left have provided health services and school health, the representative Karin Andersen, has led to far more jobs in that sector. It is not only health sisters who are employed, it is important that we consider other types of competence in these services. It is also time we organised other types of authorised health professionals to work in these sectors. In fact, we are now running out of health nurses who can work in a health centre and in the school health service. Of the 2.4 billion. kr that has been allocated to the escalation plan for waste is SEK 1,5 billion. kr earmarked for municipalities to provide housing services. For the left, it is important that we make sure that we get housing while we start treatment, and that we do not award housing as a premium because we have managed to get free. I was within these reforms, the responsibility reform, the HVPU reform, the cooperation reform and the 15 000 new places the Workers' Party promised to be built in the care of the elderly by 2013, which was 2 000. It's important that we also talk about the results that come from the means that we put on. So it's not just about billions more, it's also about how we organize. So since 1964, when we had the previous municipal reform, we've got ICT, and 428 municipalities are working hard to get an interaction between themselves, between patients they're serving, and between hospitals. The hospital reform from 2001 has been fantastic. You have, from 50 billion. kr in 2002, put to 140 b.w. kr in 2016. It has worked well for it, it also works useful to standardise ICT, where municipalities depend significantly on it. We have to start organizing this in a different way, and it requires interaction from us politicians, maybe a little less ambition in Stortinget on behalf of the municipalities, and a little more responsibility for a little larger municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1362	Helga Pedersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1365	I record that the Progress Party will spend more money on care for the elderly, but only in the municipalities that will do it exactly in the way of the Progress Party. So the vast majority of municipalities that want to do it the way they think is best based on local conditions are being fed off with a very lean community arrangement for next year. I record that the right-hand side accuses the opposition of misdemeanor descriptions. I don't think they have cover for that. The big point is that today the majority of population abuses the ability to equip our communities for the future. The government has added up to a record high use of oil money. We have 135 000 unemployed people in our country, at the same time the municipalities have a number of unsolved tasks and needs for labour in schools, care for the elderly, kindergartens and a number of other areas. That's why people and money should be set in motion to do those problems, instead of tax cuts. There is a different direction of the Workers' Party in the opposition from that of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1372	André N. Skelstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1375	A few comments at the end: No, it is not that the Labour Party people around the country are turning the lights off in the debate. On the other hand, they are propellors. On the other hand, it is the people that the party has in this Chamber, who are involved in talking both the reform and the municipality of Norway down, unfortunately. I think it is a bit sympathetic to such a description of misery, which I have barely heard of my husband. I see that there are many, many capable local politicians around the country. Unfortunately, many people are being talked down by their own party, and I think that is a pity. For 15 years, the Central Party has been in government. Nevertheless, centralisation has taken place. It's just as if this has blown over the country without the party finding out that it has also happened while they've been in position. I think it's amazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1382	The municipalities had a record financial year in 2015, and the government further strengthens the municipal economy for the year in which we are going to go, so that municipalities can also provide good welfare services to the inhabitants. Then I think it is comforting to hear both the representatives Juvik and Pedersen talk about that it is a weak economic setup. Then there's only one heading of it, and that's that rhetorical shadows politics, and rhetoric becomes more important than politics. We are therefore implementing a municipal reform to improve the welfare of municipalities and to remove obstacles to community mergers. Reform of this nature is a means and not an end in itself. It's about providing qualitatively good services, equivalent, to the inhabitants. The government also renews, simplifies and improves the public sector for the benefit of its citizens by making it more digital, simplifying laws and regulations and requiring less reporting. When I listen to representatives from the red-greens, who think that efficiency has been improved before, and that probably everyone knows a rapporteur – and I really hope so – I must say that it is not that efficiency has been made once and for all. It's just to mention some examples from the state simplification, which the government has taken on now, which is about finding time thieves, digitizing more and simplifying the planning and building law, and it wouldn't surprise me if there's still the potential to look for time thieves out in the municipal sector. We all know that, as rapporteurs or at all local peoples, when you look carefully and get new local politicians into it with new eyes and ask other questions, there is still the potential for both simplification and renewal, not because this approach itself is an objective, but because it just helps to release funds for better welfare services, childcare services, schools, technical services or even home services. The aim is to simplify, renew and improve the public sector precisely in order to create a simpler everyday life for those who live there, for the inhabitants, but also for the business community. Thus, the government has taken a solid approach to simplifications in the state sector, and now it is time to strengthen the budgets by further improving the efficiency of the municipal sector. It's not even done for everyone, and it's not done today, it's also a work for the future. It's not just calling for more money, it's important, too, but it's not just strengthening with increased funds in the municipal sector. It is also about looking at how to organise and how to use the funds that are made available. In short, a real effort to improve the efficiency of the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1391	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1394	I had two big questions that I hope to get an answer to in the debate here today. One thing I have fortunately been confirmed, because the Council of State has been quite clear, and has confirmed that the municipal reform continues to be based on voluntary activity, that the municipal government decisions are to be respected, and that the county officials are to sum up the local decisions. I am very pleased that we have been confirmed here today. The other thing I have not received a response to, and that is the logic behind the income system. If municipality A joins municipality B, it has suddenly become robust because it has become 2,000 inhabitants. Then it's no longer to be punished. A municipality with 4000 inhabitants will be penalised and less able to provide services for. The same applies to regional centres, which are now to receive a new grant. Those who become 9,000 inhabitants will receive a new grant, those who have 9,000 inhabitants will not receive it and will have less to go with to the production of services. How does this relate to the objective of equivalent services? I have not received an answer to that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1401	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1405	To Greni's comment: No, and that's enough because it's not related. I have to say I am very sorry that neither the government nor the majority here will agree with SV in removing these deadlines and the financial penalty for those who use local democracy to conclude different from what the government parties and the supporting parties do. If local democracy is to be strengthened, we have to listen to them, and then there are some deadlines that have been set, which have made it absolutely impossible for anyone to do this. I miss the respect for the democracy that you say you are for. I have also heard that the Council of State has put its trust in the rapporteurs, of which he believes it is too many – so it is very comical in this matter as well. But then the discussion about the big money. Yes, SV has greater ambitions on behalf of school and care for the elderly than the majority have, and we prioritise money for it. So I'm going to register that other parties are now saying no, you're not going to have any promises or ambitions. Well, then it says something about the priorities of those parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1412	It's a little strange in these debates that once you come up with criticism or have some critical remarks, it's the same as talking down. No one is standing on this pulpit and talking down North Norway – on the contrary. North Norway is doing well, and we should all be happy for that. But that doesn't mean that the challenges are getting smaller if things go well in North Norway, when you cut the appropriations for the county council, as you do in this case. Nor does it make it easier for municipalities to offer the best possible offer if you get less routed. And we are not saying this – although it has been said that it is a mantra from the Labour Party and from former rapporteurs from the Labour Party. No, then you might have listened – I assume that at least the members of the committee were at the hearing, where the KS leader was very clear on the significance of this proposition for the municipalities for next year. Gunn Marit Helgesen was able to confirm at the hearing — and said — that this does not allow for improving the quality of school and care for the elderly. And what have we discussed in this room lately? Well, it's just to strengthen the offer not least in school, and not least this hall is incredibly busy getting it to. I fully agree with that, but then we have to follow it up when we get to the budgets, and that is what is not going on. It's the same in relation to the county. It was just to be lacking that the county councils should not manage their finances according to the conditions they have, so I think it is good that they have managed to do so. The challenge is that the depression in 2016 and 2017 is gradually increasing, and if this hall or government doesn't do anything about it, they have, as I said, 282 million. less to be used for school, roads and boat connections from 2020. It's a reality, and it has nothing to do with how good or bad things are going in North Norway. It has to do with the economy of the individual county and the individual municipality. So it's just as if there's something new that you're going to start to streamline. I've been in municipal policy since 1987, and every year it was a struggle to get the budgets together, and not at least in 2003. During that period, I was the rapporteur and was given the main responsibility for this, and then we all know who crashed. Whether you want to or not, it became easier from 2005. It's a reality, and it also shows the numbers. So I think you should relate to the facts and not – as soon as you point out weaknesses in the bet – say that you talk down North Norway. It's going well in North Norway, and it's not because of the economy from this government to the county municipalities, it has other reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1421	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1424	The articles of the representatives Njåstad and Jenssen do not change the reality. The arrangement for the local economy that we are dealing with here today is too weak. Then the representative will go further and blame the workers' party rapporteurs and say that they will not accept any more money. They have said no to this elderly care project because they are better off counting on municipal economy than the Progress Party. It does not come as a surprise to me, it is possible that it does so at the representative Njåstad, but it has been shown that the municipality after the municipality loses money on the scheme that is being tried, and then they say no. Then the representative Njåstad goes on and talks about the efficiency is very good, but I understand from his next sentence that when he talks about ‘making things more efficient’, it is the same thing as privatizing. It was good that the cats came out of the bag. So it's like... there the time went out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1433	Yes, it did. That's absolutely correct. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1436	I can also be a true witness to local policy in the 1980s, but the instruments available in the 1980s are different today. These include: on digitisation and the opportunities available to improve the efficiency of both the State and the municipal sectors in order to release funds for other important tasks that citizens need. Digitalisation facilitates increased value creation and innovation and also helps improve productivity in both the private and public sectors, as well as in business. This year’s government budget has seen a significant increase in investment in this area, and it is important in order to improve the efficiency of the municipal sector as well. It's important that we take a central approach that also works locally. The work on simplifying the Law on Planning and Building is just that. We want to strengthen local democracy – as I hear some other parties, including in red-green clay, are busy – and eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy. I hope everyone's busy about that. As a result, attempts are now being made to coordinate and cut off objections from State activities. Simplification of building rules was introduced on 1 July last year, and the new rules make it easier for people to carry out small construction projects on their own property without having to apply, and the municipality does not use resources on smaller construction projects. What does that mean? That means you can use resources on other things. It's about improving efficiency, it's about a completely different type of community involvement. This type of construction activity comprises a total of one fifth of all construction works in Norwegian municipalities. It means something to people's everyday lives. Simplifications for business are important, and the government has had and aims to reduce the annual cost of business in order to comply with laws and regulations by 15 billion. kr by the end of 2017 – in relation to the level of costs we had in 2011. Work is on track and, as of today, the annual savings from work are 9 billion. kr. It may well be that some of those who have spoken before me believe that all this efficiency work has been done before, and that you do not have the same need – at least the government does not come up with anything new now. Then it's just saying, well, actually, the government is doing, you're bringing in new things, you're using new tools. So time has gone by since we were local politicians in the 1980s and until today. I believe that local politicians and many rapporteurs see and know to appreciate that efficiency in the state has a focus on what matters to the citizens of each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1451	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1454	This whole debate shows how the right regional reform is when the municipal map is to be maintained as it is – according to the red-greens. That was probably a reason why the red-green government itself started a regional reform. The ewe of asphalt and royal crabs has digested – that was the content of that reform. There were little warm hands, and there was little competitiveness in new regions that could relieve the state. What the red-greens get away with today is the basic subsidy to the municipalities. They have to explain to me, which is from Gjøvik, why six municipalities in Valdres with 18 000 inhabitants will get 78 million. kr in basic supplements, while Gjøvik with 30000 inhabitants is to be eaten by 13 million. kr. Some of these discussions we need to take – why it is to be premiered to have six municipalities with 18,000 inhabitants on an area that is not much larger than Gjøvik. That's when we come to the discussion about real welfare production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1461	The representative, Mr. Greni, said that she had not received an answer. Yes, the representative Greni has received an answer, but she does not like the answer she has received. That is the reality. We've answered the question of the county income system. Larger municipalities are also needed in central districts. A little south of Oslo, you can reach 13 town halls in 45 minutes. Old municipal boundaries hinder the ability of municipalities to achieve good social development as they grow. The changes in the income system are well-founded. It is about removing obstacles to bundling – which have broad support in the Storting. The second concerns the task of the county councillors. Mr Greni has also received an answer here, and the answer is in the Storting decision, namely that: ‘The government is asking the syta for the county councillors to make their recommendation on the municipal structure in the county after the municipalities have taken their decisions by 1 July 2016 at the latest.’ The county has the task of making such a recommendation based on the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy. The representative Helga Pedersen mentioned that it would be a pity for some municipalities that had the opportunity to reach a target, was stopped by a deadline of 1 July. They are not stopped by a deadline of 1 July. They may agree to spend some more time in consultation with the county. It is the municipalities that have already been given the opportunity. The representative Juvik took up the situation of the Northern Norwegian counties. Let me then show that when you look at the income of the county municipalities in the north and correct for the extra costs you have because of travel distances and other things, Finnmark actually has 122 pst. of the national average, Troms 120 pst. by the national average and the Nordic region 124 pst. of the national average. It's after you've corrected for distance problems. A county municipality like Nord-Trøndelag has 105 pst. There is good room for good services in the county municipalities in the north. Then I hear again that the Workers' Party wants to spend more money on the municipal sector – 3 billion. kr. Where is the Workers' Party going to get that money? Is it the way that the Workers' Party is going to spend more oil money, or you're going to increase the taxes on the companies by 3 billion? kr in the situation we're in now? It is a bad message for those who will create the safe jobs in 2017. In the situation we are in, we need more secure jobs in the private sector. We don't need increased taxes that make it harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1479	It was the representative of Lauvås who made me draw again, although I thought it was a pity that the red light began to flash for him, because he had started to be quite good when he got the red light. But he gives me the opportunity to answer some of the things he said. One thing that he said quite boldly was that the Labour Party is better off than the Progress Party. I don't get it to vote when it's pretty easy for us to spend more money on top of the municipalities that are involved in the care of the elderly, and when some municipalities are willing to pull out, there'll be a lot of money left over that one can dispose of in the revised national budget. It tells me that someone is taking money out of care for the elderly, and that the non-participating municipalities are losing money. They lose money for one reason: that they can no longer cut in old age care, which we do not want to contribute to. I think the Labour Party should count once again if they want to appear as a party more occupied with care for the elderly than the Advance Party. Then I used the word "competition exposure," and the representative Lauvås interprets it as letting the cats out of the bag and talking about privatisation. Then he hasn't seen the right cat in any case, because there's a big difference between privatisation and outsourcing. When we in the Progress Party talk about putting out competition, it's about the public being responsible for funding the services, but we don't have an allergy to those who are going to do them. It's a little strange that it's really good also for the Workers' Party to have private kindergartens. I think it's okay for the whole Storting to have private bodies -- most of them have fixed things that are private. But when one comes to some services, such as: services in the care of the elderly, it incurs a huge allergy to private participation and delivery of better services. They can challenge municipalities by enabling them to drive smarter and better. I think it's strange that one should have developed such an allergy that it's okay in some fields, while on others it's totally inappropriate to leave private. We found it exciting that private people are allowed to challenge the municipalities through smart solutions and by thinking about new things. It's not about privatisation at all, as Lauvås puts words on it. And then I'm going to record that there's a lot of people that have signed up, so maybe it's early to thank for the debate, but I'll do it anyway. I think it has been a good debate this year, too, which has been quite pervasive given that for the opposition there is a competition to deliver more money to the municipalities. Nevertheless, there is broad agreement that municipalities will receive more money for the next year than they have this year, and what they had last year. So I'll finally bring a little greeting to the press bench. When this committee dealt with the tightening package on Friday, the media made a small number of that there were few in the hall. Then I can allow myself to make a small number of that there are very few on the press bench today. In a matter so important for Norway, which concerns local democracy and local government in Norway, there should perhaps be greater involvement on the press bench to tell us what we are going to consult with local government in Norway next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1492	The representative, Kjell Idar Juvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1496	I just want to clarify a manifestly incorrect claim. There are people who are trying to form a picture that the Workers' Party is against looking at possible municipal mergers. Then they haven't come. Then, in the debate today, they have not heard our party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, who actually said anything else. Our Labour Party rapporteurs do their job, as they are required, in investigating and looking at the possibility. They have, also with blessing from us. But there's a difference between using carrots or whips. Now we're recording that you've gone over to whip, and we're against that. It has to be a voluntary scheme. And no matter what Sanner is trying to say, Nordland has to put down 282 million. in 2020 if nothing else happens. Then it must be as good a public job as a private one. In our reign, we provided 350 000 new jobs. Two thirds of them were in the private sector. It is good for unemployment that there are also more public jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1505	A number of claims have been made in this debate, among others. on the budgeting of the Workers' Party. We have recently reached an agreement on corporate taxation. Interestingly, the Right Party and the Advance Party make a point of ideologically based tax cuts, nearly 50 million. Every day. And what did that result in? Has this resulted in a fall in unemployment? No, it's not going down. Unemployment has risen, so it has no short-term effect, and economists say it has no long-term effect either. What it has a long-term effect on is private, large assets and large capital. One of the more interesting debates today, where I think the Stortinge can actually agree on some sensible principles, is the debate on quality in the care of the elderly. In the past, the councils of state in the municipal propositions have shown reason and listened, for example: when you were going to place municipalities under County County, almost under compulsion, by raising a loan. Then the council listened and turned. So let's try it again. This relates to grants for the rehabilitation of hospitals. In Trondheim, over 700 hospitals have been built and renovated in the last 13 years – 700 hospitals! It resulted in almost 350 new hospitals for older people in need of protection, who need help, and who have a right to it. What this removal results in is over 100 million. kr less in grants to clean up nursing homes. Does it not go beyond quality – not being able to get new ventilation and getting fresher air, not getting stretcher lifts that provide lower sick leave by making the promises easier, not providing modern solutions for the elderly, so you can order food, so you get the welfare technology you need? Don't they deserve it? Aren't they good enough? Of course they are. Of course they deserve that help. That's the futility of care for the elderly. The quality of care for the elderly is to see each one, to give all those who need it, single rooms, to those who want it with their loved ones, a double room — a clean double room. Then it cannot be said to those who have built out nursing homes, who have stood on and taken a local responsibility, that no, the elderly who have not been moved into a new home, do not deserve the quality, they do not deserve that dignity. There is a real cut of several billion kroner in the care of the elderly, which we are going to turn around on the day we get into the government offices in 2017. For the Workers' Party, the quality of care for the elderly and the quality of education for our young people are more important than ideologically based tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1518	It's probably not just this representative who gets a little skeptical when Municipal Minister Sanner brings up his calculator and presents the calculator. We've had a round of folklore around the country, where we see how people have believed in them. State Council Sanner presented here a calculation, which I wonder what was done in this debate. He had come to the conclusion that the Nordic states have too good an economy. It is perhaps my only question to the Council of State Sanner: Do you think Sanner has come to the conclusion that the Nordic states have too good an economy? And by noticing this – what has Truer intended to do further and further? We've been through a race of cuts in the north. And the complaints come in the north – there are no complaints from his own municipality of origin. They've been cutting down on nutrition, and everyone's talking about the green shift, so who's gonna stand for this? At least it's not the ones in the state that have to do it, because there's a solid cut here. Compared to the country-by-country effort that blue-blue politicians travel around and tell us about, it represents only two-thirds of the cuts they have made when it comes to business development. Either the blue politicians in the north themselves have not been able to assume that what they are now going around and presenting is a pretty bad package, or they realize that this is right to do: cut north and pretend it doesn't happen. So there's this point, as someone claims, that one shouldn't talk down North Norway. No, we certainly shouldn't! To put it this way, there's no reason. But here the government has to decide what they can actually take honors for. Is that the amazing fish? Maybe the blues can actually take honors because there are amazing gymnasiums in Lofoten, and that there are amazing growing conditions for the fish in the Barents Sea? That's what they say. When it comes to the industrial potential of countries in the north, the industry we have in the north is largely devoted to land and not to the petroleum economy. The blues go around and take the credit for it too! The situation in the oil industry is so bad that one gets a bad development for Norwegian kroner. It also takes an era for it. One travels around and says: See how well it goes in the north! And then take an honor for it on that basis. One actually has to decide which one can take honors for. The only thing one can take credit for is an actual do. There will be no more teachers in Norwegian school, and education will no longer be adapted with less money. If you really want to do this, you need another addition and another needed resources to get into Norwegian school. There will be no more competent and warm hands in the care of the elderly if they do not come with a better economy. It doesn't happen; one can have as many articles as you like. That's why SV also has 7 billion. kr in the frame in addition to what is the government's arrangement. I hope most of the parties can even support it when it comes to the piece of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1533	I didn't intend to engage so much in the debate, but after listening to the last sequence, I have to say it feels incredibly motivating to hear that it is said that the Workers' Party is talking down the municipal reform and that we are against the municipal reform. The Labour Party has been in the process of a municipal reform. Our rapporteurs around the whole country have been quite active in this regard. But we are not in favour of a reform in which one should use whips and threats. Then it says itself where this ends. What has always been a problem is that the rules of the game have been changed along the way. The last thing that came just before there was going to be reconciliations in many municipalities was the new income system where a distinction between volunteering and involuntaryness. As an old rapporteur, I have to say that I understand people very well, and I understand very well people in Kvinesdal. They negotiated an agreement of intent, but they negotiated 92 pst. of our residents said no in this context, and it comes from the way this process is done. When you have asked the people for advice, you must also deal with that advice – that is my opinion. That's Sanner's way of running the reform, I think, is why this reform is collapsing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1540	It was the representative of Njåstad who made me take the floor. What he says about state funding for the care of the elderly is simply not right. It's not like the municipalities get a lot of money on top of what you have. No, the state takes an extract from the municipal council, and then you convert it to a state rate, put on a shard of up to 4 p.m., and then you give back to the municipalities – which then have to build up a bureaucracy to report on this money. In Model A, the preferred model of the Advance Party, this is kept in very tight timbers. It is such that Trökstad loses 6 million. SEK, Tønsberg loses 44 million. kr, Narvik loses 40 million. kr – and the Health Directorate has confirmed the figures. I have never heard that the Minister of Health has managed to refute it – he has not even tried it. When Njåstad and others talk about that it is the Workers' Party that has tried to get the municipalities not to participate in this, I think that yes, that is approx. 100 bourgeoisly overthrown municipalities, and the greatest of them is Stavanger. There is the Progress Party and the Right in the governance of the city, and they both said, so Stavanger Aftenblad heard and quoted: No, thanks, Siv Jensen, we don't want the state care, because the truth is that we lose several hundred million dollars if we're going to be involved in this. It was the head of the Living Corps Committee, Kåre Reiten from the Right, who said it. That's why I think you should be a little honest at least. If there is anyone who can show that the municipalities are not losing, at least there should be on the table, because now there are six municipalities left of 18 that had signed up, and there were both red and blue municipalities. Here you have thought a little – or what you have done – but at least the municipalities have realized that this is not a very good idea to be part of, and at least there is no better care for the elderly. So a little comment on this with private actors. As I see it, there is a very big difference between a private practice doctor or contract specialist, who works first-line in a company that maybe he or she has, and large capital investors who go into vulnerable care for the elderly with one main goal: the maximum return on each invested crown. It's not going down on private investors, it's just telling what are the actual relationships. It's always trying to the right to say that's not the case, but everyone knows that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1549	I record that some people have a strong need to characterise the work of the community reform. Of course you can, but I think it's disrespectful. It is disrespectful to the many local politicians from all parties who work well and thoroughly to create good municipalities for their inhabitants. I believe that this matter is too important for us to come up with lightweight characteristics one way or another, because this is about the well-being of our citizens. I think we all in this room know that the challenges of the years to come are growing. That means that we have a responsibility to facilitate a municipal structure that allows us to get strong welfare municipalities even in the years that come. This doesn't go over. We have to deal with this, and that's why we're doing the work. My job is to cheer on the many local politicians from all parties who do a good job. The representatives Juvik and Knag Fylkesnes clearly fall to the chest that I point out that the states in the north have corrected free incomes, that is, after taking into account distance constraints, which are far above the national average. A county municipality like Rogaland has 93 pst. of the national average, and a county municipality such as More and Romesdal have 99 pst. These aren't Sanner's numbers, these are official statistics. It's just an indication of how it really is when you're concerned about finding out how bad everything is. The reality is that it's in North Norway now it's happening. More roads and transportation are being built than ever. Mineral and industrial activities are facilitated. It's flowering. Unemployment has fallen over time. We're also going to lift this up and continue to facilitate it. It's obvious that the Workers' Party doesn't fully understand the economic challenges we're facing when you say you're going to spend $3. kr more than the government proposes, on the municipalities until next year. The question remains: Where will that money come from? In a situation where we lose profitable jobs in the oil and gas industry, the answer seems to be that we should increase taxes on other private businesses. In the current situation, we need more profitable jobs in the private sector. We need more jobs that contribute to the state budget, not even more that survive the state budget. For this reason, governments and cooperation parties have been concerned that we need to facilitate private business, while addressing the short-term challenges. We have done so through the revised national budget and the budget for 2016, with 5 billion. kr in the package of measures and much concretely addressed to the South-West.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1558	It's interesting to hear the government parties' criticism of the Workers' Party in terms of the municipal reform. If you go out into the country, you can see that our trust-elected people have been very positive about the community reform and the work to be done. It has put a lot of work into it, but the process that has been set up by the government, the content of it and the income system has not been particularly successful, as we see it. That's why it's also hard to get this country. If this is as provocative as the government parties in this debate refer to, I think it is very strange that no more municipalities join together. It's the way people really don't want this solution. In the election campaign, the representative Helge Orten, from the Right in More and Romesdal, went around and said that with the municipal reform we would have reduced the number there from 36 municipalities to 4–5 municipalities. It seemed to me like a hairy goal, to say it like that, but that there is absolutely a need to look at the structure, there is no doubt about it. Unfortunately, perhaps 4 to 5 municipalities will merge after this reform, and I would rather say that it has not been a success – a package of carrots that people want to buy. Actually, a lot of people say no to this. To Sanner, who talked about oil money, I would say that in our budget we have managed to spend less oil money than the government. We're able to prioritise better than this government, which is actually just spending more and not being able to cut anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1569	I want to make a little admission. It is that I am a fan of municipal convergence. I've believed that Norway can benefit from a major community reform, but not the reform we're observing right now. I think that's what's happened -- people have studied what this actually is. They have managed to merge two different sizes, such as borders and local economy. I believe that this reverses the work of a proper municipal reform – a proper, good municipal reform – presumably by 20–30 years, because one has entered the process here as one has done. One has used the municipal reform as a means of driving through other things – centralisation, ideological projects. Had the municipalities and people around the municipalities had threatened that this was a genuine desire to organize Norway better, create better services, I am absolutely sure that people had joined in. Then I had joined in. But that's not what's happening. Make this a Trojan horse of a kind. It's very bad, because then we've missed out on a historic, amazing possibility because it's handled this way. I found that very regrettable. So to North Norway: Yes, Sanner does as his party traps in the north have also done. One reduces North Norway to a question of asphalt. As long as they can point out that a little more road is built, the northern countries must be satisfied. That's an honest speech! Well, we've cut a lot more into business development. Well, we've cut more in the municipal economy. But they've got asphalt! I'm not afraid of Truer's numbers, and it doesn't matter to my chest to right his interpretation of public data, but what I'm asking is, what does Truer want with their numbers? Why does he have this in front of him right now? Why does he look at the numbers from the north? It should not just worry people on the left, like me, or people from North Norway, like me. It must be absolutely a concern to people who are elected to the Storting from Sanner's party to see these developments and see how their own part of the country is treated. I also think it's going great in North Norway, but as I tried to say in the previous post, it's not because there's a problem in the policy that this government is running. To take the spawning grounds and the crown price: Sanner can control a lot in this country, but that's exactly what I don't think he controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1582	I think that if we had measured which debates in the Great Britain are most relevant to people, then I think this debate will be very high on the list. It goes right on everyday life to people – do our kids get good enough school, get the older well enough care, is it a good child protection, are people taken care of, can we help people back to a good and decent life if they've ended up out somehow? I fully agree with the municipal minister that we must have a responsible use of money, that is something that the Labour Party has always stood for. That's why we were very surprised when the new government, which has now been sitting for three years, went to the oil fund at every crossroad and collected more money. In fact, oil money has almost doubled since Solberg took over in 2013, and oil money has been spent as much in three years as the red-green spent on eight. I guess that's not what you expected when Erna Solberg criticised the oil money usage in the 2013 election campaign. In a situation of 130,000 unemployed, it is right to spend money. But when you're going to spend so much money, you have to ask yourself critically, what are we spending the money for? How do we make the most of our work at the same time as we do important societal tasks? The government has made its choice: 20 billion. kr in tax cuts. It is an honest choice, it is believed that it stimulates the economy and that it contributes to investment and more jobs. Fair enough. But after three years we might have to start asking, when will this effect come? We asked the Central Statistical Office, and they told us that their calculations show that 200 million. In tax cuts, there are three jobs. What can you get in the municipal budget for 200 million? Do you really want to delete this item? Well, you can get a difficult school, you can get a couple of hospitals, you can get investments in roads, you can get investments in building stock – which are private jobs, not public. It's activity in the economy – it's entrepreneurship companies, construction companies, electricians and others that come into operation. And they equip us for the future. How do we equip ourselves for the future – because we know that we will have a great wave of old age that will need care? Now let's use the free capacity to make the investments we know we're going to have to make. It's estimated that we're losing 35 billion. kr in the year that we have the extraordinary high unemployment. Let's use that capacity to make the necessary investments. One thing is the Right and Advance Party, but the question goes to the Christian People's Party and the Left too. Terje Breivik and Knut Arild Hareide from Hordaland, Iselin Nybø and Olug Bollestad from Rogaland – what have these tax cuts done for their counties? How does it – with large tax incentives instead of investing in the local economy, in school, care for the elderly, infrastructure and construction – help to reduce unemployment? You do not have to answer that question just to the Workers' Party, but to their voters, and I think the answer is going to be clear: You want a different course.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1593	I have to answer the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, who has a touching concern for our part of the country. No, it is not the case that Nordic politicians chew asphalt and thank it. It is quite simply that North Norway got a regional road reform of the previous government, where a large amount of road was left to the counties without sending money. The re-priority we have made from what is called RUP funds and over to the road, maintenance resources, is a completely necessary re-priority for which business is grateful, as we are a part of the country that in these times in particular depends on having the infrastructure in place and logistics in place so that we can care for the markets we have out there. It is petty, in my opinion, to salve a debate that way. It is quite simply that the representative Knag Fylkesnes can travel northwards, contact the business organisations, contact the companies in the north and ask if they want to return to worse roads, if they want to return to the road budgets they used to have. They don't want to. What else have you done? There is a reform of continuing training for teachers, which is going to lift this part of the country. Finally. The most important thing about our part of the country is that we get so good teachers in school that our youth can take the education they need so that they can realize their opportunities. It should not be like a former half-maoist society, where politicians are to decide what opportunities young people should have. We're going to have so good schools that the young people from North Norway will be able to exploit their potential, take the opportunities they have, if they want to take them. That's the school effort we're doing right now. Billions of money are spent on getting good teachers at school, and it is a shame that the representative Knag Fylkesnes cannot take it with him when he mentions the bet in the north – simply. Otherwise, with his philosophical considerations and his easier academic approach to things, this theme should lead to him going up here and saying thank you, and did not hesitate with the bet. Then it's like this in the field of business development, that it's not the public and politicians who pick the winners, it's the businessmen who create values and become the winners themselves. The nicest create good business, create values and succeed. It's not like it's a public machine that automatically picks the right ones. It is the framework conditions and tax laws that give us a robust business that creates values, creates profitable jobs, creates safe jobs – also in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1604	Saying that something is a shame is not parliamentary language. The representative Torgeir Knag County has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1610	Within the parliamentary language: I wonder what the representative Bakke-Jensen would say on the street, if he had spoken there. We can just imagine that. Let me just ask two simple questions to the representative, Bakke-Jensen. The repriority, as Bakke-Jensen mentions, from regional development to regional development: has it been a one-to-one relationship there? Has Nord-Noreg received as much money as has been taken from industrial development when it has been transferred? Well, yes, no to that. The second question relates to continuing training: it is a one-off increase that is behind the reform of continuing education and training. No matter how academic reference length I'm in this room, it's a fact. A unanimous growth is behind this, and it was SV, when we were in the government, that started that project. There's no disagreement about that. But when it comes to the other cuts in the district, which Hill-Jensen doesn't mention, it's all in the blue what he thinks about it. It seems like he just didn't learn how to use the famous calculator for the right calculator part.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1619	I have to say that the representative Giske's contributions were marked by a lot of tax fraud. This government has never considered that tax relief is suitable for the rapid emergence of new jobs. But the Workers' Party actually agreed when the State pension fund was set up, that oil revenues were to be used, among others. for tax incentives that promote growth, i.e.: creating jobs in the long term. The working party also agreed that oil revenues should be used to strengthen the infrastructure and expand transport. The working party also agreed that oil money should be used to strengthen research. Wherever the State may make a difference, and only the State may make a difference, the Right and Government shall put in place instruments. In addition, the government has put on the table 5 billion. kr for a package of measures. It is a classic counter-cyclical policy which the Labour Party should applaud. It seems strange that the tax level of the Workers' Party is on, it is the tax level that, after all the sunmarks, should be the right one. Tax economy and tax policy are not an exact science. I would recommend the Workers' Party and the representative Giske to perhaps be a little more humble for others' approaches to tax policy and look at themselves in the mirror and remember that the Stortinget has recently concluded a broad tax settlement, where the Workers' Party and the Right agreed on the main features of Norwegian tax policy, and where tax relief is an essential element. The personal tax is now to be reduced from 27 pst. until 23 p.m., the taxes on wealth are reduced and the company tax is to be reduced to 23 p.m. It is actively using fiscal policy to ensure that we have more jobs and higher employment in Norwegian competitive industries and activities. Because it's the exports we live on, not the imports.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1626	The term 'tax haven' is a funny expression, but it is not parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1629	It is probably possible to go in the budgets and say that there is not one krone from RUP funds replaced by one krone for road maintenance. But it's simply that in the budgets we've been delivering over the last few years, we've increased investment in road investments and increased road maintenance spending so much that we're now reversing. The roads are getting better and better, it's far from what was delivered by the previous government. To further education for teachers: No, it's not like it was the red-green government that started it. With SV in the State Council chair, a system was started where you picked out one, two, and three teachers, maybe two from a municipality. The scheme was so expensive that the municipalities could not use it. There was no professional boost for teachers around the municipalities. On the contrary, we had a queue of rapporteurs who said that this is a system that is so expensive that we do not have the opportunity to use it. We have provided a teacher's lift of dimensions, which promises colleagues, with several thousand teachers each year taking part in continuing training. It gives a better school. It takes into account that we have students who depend on good teachers in school to take the education they need, to have the basic skills they need when they leave primary school, so that they can go to high school, and so they can take advantage of the potential of each individual. It is the intention of the reform of continuing training for this government. It's far from what was delivered by the red-greens. They didn't think a thought very well, even. It is a debate on the local economy we now have. That's why it's a point that you can travel around from the left so easily and decorate yourself with what works, and say that we all agreed on this, then we also thought about it. No, it was not for the Swedish Government to think of such a reform of continuing education when they were in power and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1640	I think the article from Riveres was quite descriptive of how the Right is about 135,000 people in Norway now leaving without a job, that 42,000 young people under 25 are out of work, that 70,000 young people under 30 are neither in education nor work, that people lose their livelihood, that people have to take the kids out of school, maybe move somewhere else, maybe experience that they don't get a job. The only thing he has to come with is that the discussion about how we spend the money best to help these people is tax jokes. 20 B.C.E. kr – I fully respect it. Now Riveres says that this is not intended to stimulate business in the short term. It is possible to have a long-term effect. What is the long term for these people? Is it three years, is it five years, is it ten years? How many years do they have to leave before these measures work? We must be able to have a serious discussion about a record high use of money from the oil fund being used in one way or another. Our alternative is to use oil money – not as much as the Right spends on tax cuts – a little more to upgrade schools, build hospitals, invest in children and young people’s education, provide good care, make sure that both private and public jobs around are actually established. Stavanger is a municipality The Workers' Party is not close to governing. It is a municipality that has tight budgets, which has shaved its school budgets and has had it tough to get the ends to meet. Tromsø and Bergen are also municipalities that have been right-headed, and are now experiencing tight municipal budgets. I don't think we're going to get there that the municipalities are going to be satisfied with any budget, but does it make sense to cancel the teachers, cut the crews in the nursing home and postpone the refurbishment projects when 135,000 go free, and in that these people are going to join a line that's too long? Isn't it better that we do the things that we know our society needs? I know that Erna Solberg at Højre's national meeting said that the government's economic policy now works vigorously against unemployment. Let no one tell you anything else, she said. Well, 135,000 people can tell something else. If these votes do not reach the National Council of the Right, if these votes do not reach the offices of Akershus Højre, if these votes do not reach the government offices, they shall at least be heard here. In this room, the 135,000 people will be heard. We see them, we hear them, and we have a better policy to help them. Let's end the waste of oil money, let's end the waste of labour. Instead, let's connect the money we have with the people we have, and do sensible tasks, solve problems in society, and build Norway further. It would be a much better option than solutions that, in some way, could possibly work somewhere. Concrete answers are what the unemployed require. Concrete money is what the municipalities need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1653	I cannot find another response to the eye-catching approximateness of the representative Giske than that he has read the large-scale documents very badly – i.e.. revised national budget. I allow myself a little repetition, a summary that might help to raise the level of information of the representative Giske. The government has set a total of 5 billion. kr for a package of measures. 250 million. kr is earmarked for maintenance measures in municipal buildings in the South and West. 257 million. kr is earmarked for maintenance of the railway and the introduction of new management systems. The period of receipt of daily allowances has been extended from 30 to 49 weeks. 1 000 new action sites have been established. It was a short review. Time does not allow for a longer review. How the representative Giske could interpret my statement as a lack of respect for the 135 000 people who are currently under work, only the representative Giske himself can answer. Government policy works. We're already seeing results. Today, Manpower presented its barometer for the food temperature in Norway, and there is growing optimism in the South and West. Things have turned around, and the government's policy works.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1664	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1678	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1683	Then the speech rates were used up, and we can go over to the fish quotas. Saka me now has to deal with a proposal by Mr Knag Fylkesnes for an immediate freezing of the Minister for Fisheries's instructions, which, contrary to Stortinget's wishes, opens up to the transfer of fishing quotas. Saka was born in Stortinget on 9 June. The Committee gave its opinion on 13 June. The Committee has gathered on a joint proposal on the subject, which we ask the government to consider implementing the proposals from the Fiskerlag and to report back to the Stortinget. It would lead too far to do good for all sides of this case, but in short, the question relates to the location of participants on ships with large sizes other than those to which they belong. A little bit simpler, you might say, is a question about what kind of conditions and what kind of frame you can place fish quotas on larger boats. Over time, a little uniform practice had been developed by the different regional offices in the Directorate for Fisheries on how to understand the conditions of compliance. In order to remedy this, the Minister for Fisheries shall send an instruction on 12 January on how to deal with matters. The Committee states in its opinion that it was right for the Minister for Fisheries to give such an instruction. That is what I expect the Minister for Fisheries to remember. The Committee further states that the Committee cannot fully agree with the material content of the instructions. I expect that the Minister for Fisheries has noticed. The Committee is engaged in facilitating a differentiated size structure within the coastal fishing fleet and stresses that the ‘finland model’ before cod fishing is established. The Committee agrees with the intensifications and clarifications contained in the instructions for the smallest fleet group. Otherwise, the Committee refers to the decision of the Fiskerlagen on 4 February of this year, with a proposal for an adjustment of the instructions. The Committee believes that the recordings of the Norwegian Fisheries Team better capture the balance between the concerns of the smaller fishing vessels and the desire for an opening for movement between the different groups than that of the Minister of Fisheries. I believe that the Council of State has noticed that, while asking the Minister for Fisheries to consider the proposal of the Fiskerlag, Stortinget emphasises that the proposal of the Fiskerlag is better than the Minister for Fisheries's instructions. I have a expectation that the Minister for Fisheries will clarify in the debate whether he has noticed the signals from Stortinget. The cause has created great commitment out there, and in the process of the Storting there are many parties that have gone far to come to an agreement. And there's a joint committee that emphasizes that we believe that the holistic discussion on the future system of allowances should be taken as part of the follow-up to the Eidesen selection, which suggests NOU in the fall. Finally, in the event of an incursion following the accelerated procedure, the last sentence of the last paragraph of a comment from the Committee’s multiplicity has three words: ‘as its own matters’. The three words were never meant to be there. I would like to thank the Committee for a very busy and good process. I would like to thank the Council of State for speeding up the implementation of the issues raised by the Committee. And not least, I would like to commend the members of the committee for their willingness to find a common solution. Now it is the Minister for Fisheries and the Government that must take action, and this should be done as quickly as possible. Let me add that there is a clear expectation from the Central Party that the Council of State will change the instructions as soon as possible in line with what is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1709	One of the first things Per Sandberg did when he became a fisheries minister was that he introduced a new instruction on 12 January this year. The instruction concerns the management of requests for replacement of larger vessels in the coastal fishing fleet. The situation before the instruction came was that applications were decided by a discretionary assessment within the fisheries management. This led to a large gap in the discretionary assessments of the different regional offices, and relatively similar applications were treated differently. That's not good. It was therefore right that an instruction should be introduced with more unambiguous guidelines, which could ensure non-discrimination. The instruction, however, goes too far in our opinion, and allows allowances to be moved from small to larger boats without being subject to any management assessment. There was therefore a lot of debate when it came, and many called for it to be stopped and changed. In early February the Fiskarlag was aware that the matter was of such a high level of fisheries policy that the Ministry should have conducted a consultation session in the industry before the instructions were laid down. The fisherman asked the department to adjust the note on several points as soon as possible, without doing so. Also from the Labour Party we have raised this matter several times with the Minister for Fisheries, without any willingness to do anything, first in the Question Time on 2 March. Fortunately, there is now an overall committee – all the parties are behind it, including the governmental parties – that informs the Council of State that this needs to be reconsidered. When the instructions arrived, the government sent out a press release justifying the instructions with simplification and greater freedom of choice for fishermen. In my view, it is probably an example of the government making changes that are justified by simplification, but in reality it introduces new policies. When you don't have support in Stortinget, you try it that way. Although this instruction is primarily about which boats to use, there is no doubt that it affects the fleet, and therefore also the structure of the coastal fleet. We therefore agree with the Fisheries Association that this matter should be subject to a completely different procedure and are therefore pleased that the Committee has taken the decision that is being taken here today. In order to avoid any doubt, the working party agrees to the introduction of a bulkhead for a vessel of less than 11 metres, and the Committee has also pointed out that this tightening is supported. It is a liberalisation towards those who are 11 meters, which needs to be changed to ensure that we still have a differentiated fleet. It is also very gratifying that a joint committee determines the importance of both a differentiated fleet and the so-called Finnmark model. Finally, I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the committee for their good cooperation and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1728	This matter, which we are discussing today, is an instruction given by the Minister for Fisheries to the Directorate for Fisheries on 12 January this year. First, I was not aware that the Storting intervened at such a level in the administration. Such an instruction is an administrative hood to ensure a level playing field in the administration’s follow-up to law and regulation. And secondly, suddenly, after six months, SV wakes up and thinks that the instructions are not right – six months after he comes into force, they wake up. And thirdly, the prompt handling of such a case is required – it is simply not to be believed. Then I have to say that I am proud that we have a big deal that enables us to deal quickly with matters that are important to the nation, but this is not such a matter, in my opinion. I have once boasted by committee leader Pollestad for his work. Unfortunately, I cannot do that today. Today, I will have recorded the most comprehensive criticism that it is possible for a committee leader to get for his work. Firstly, there has been only one formal committee meeting on the subject – it was the presentation on Monday – and secondly, the Committee was not in a position to adopt its rules after the Stortinget meeting when a few representatives from the Committee gathered in an office and set out both the progress plan and the draft document 8. In my opinion, the chairman of the committee should take this into account. So it was probably also claimed by the committee leader that there were leaders from the presidency that the matter should be dealt with quickly. As I see it now in retrospect, neither does it. This was the criticism of the process, for which the committee leader has a great responsibility. So to the very thing: it's an old Western saying, "Up like a deer, down like a shit." There must be an appropriate description for the representative of SV who produced this document 8. The machine of a belly pie shall search for a long time - from the failure of locking all the allowances within the home group of the Eidenen selection to the support of the government party in asking the government to implement the proposals of the Fisker team and report back to the Storting itself. I can't help calling it a political magnetic space SV. SV's curvature in this matter shows that they have not had enough knowledge of the matter, the background of the instruction, the content of the instruction, and not least the effect of the instruction. I think this has been a learning process for several, and therefore this matter should have been handled in an entirely ordinary way in the committee, and not as an urgent matter. One would think it said about the security of the kingdom, but it doesn't do it in this case here. So to the material at hand. After receiving several relevant documents and good information from the Ministry, there was broad agreement in the Committee that something had to be done and that the practice that existed until 12 January 2016 was unfortunate. The Council of State received support for the introduction of an instruction. In 2015, the National Meeting of the Fiskerlag asked for changes to ensure that the access of participants to vessels below 11 metres was no longer permitted for vessels longer than 15 metres. This has the instructions in mind, and the first draft instructions from the Ministry were very much as liberal as the Fiskerlag’s national meeting requested. In addition, in the Ministry of Fisheries's first draft for tightening instructions, it was suggested that admissions of less than 15 metres in length should not be given to vessels over 21 metres or more and that admissions of less than 21 metres in length should not be allocated to vessels of 28 metres or more. The Fisheries Association therefore proposed more liberalisation than the Ministry proposed in its first draft, and the Ministry adjusted the draft in line with the Fiskerlage's input. But then there was a rainstorm along the coast. So send the Fiskerlagen letter dated 5 February 2016 to the department and ask for adjustments that are more in line with the original draft from the department. Now, however, the Fiskarlag asks us to make a change to allow participants to access less than 15 metres no longer to be given to vessels over 21 metres. When the Council of State is now considering this matter again, I urge him to look at the first draft from the Ministry of Fisheries, which was sent to the Directorate of Fisheries before the implementation of this regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1751	It has been a strange experience to see this matter from the point of view of urgency, until the committee setting was delivered and presented to the media with an oversalk from the opposition that lacks similarity. And I have to say it surprises me to find the committee leader Pollestad in a press release that is directly misleading, yes she's actually false, as it turned out. The NTB message stated: ‘The size stops Sandberg’s quota instructions’. That was the heading. It's wrong, and it's not true. And SV proclaimed: «Fiskeri Minister Sandberg tried to give our fish away to the richest shipowners. Today, the Storting stops him." Bug! make-hint Actually, that's not true, too. In addition, SV says: ‘This is a long-term victory and marks a turning point in the fight for the fish to belong to the people and to benefit the coastal communities.’ Wrong again, for it has never been unsavory that these are national resources belonging to the Norwegian people. So here you're trying to make a story story on completely wrong premises, and then you're bluffing out that we've now arranged this. So the Socialist Left Party agreed, if we go back and see, in a practice that led to great injustices for seekers, where some got yes and others got no – on completely identical applications. That was the reason why the Minister for Fisheries introduced an instruction that there should be equal treatment in a case where one saw that injustice flourished. And that's what's happening here: the administration couldn't continue with the arbitrary processing of these types of applications. A collective committee writes in its configuration that it is busy to facilitate a differentiated size structure within the coastal fishing fleet. And so does the Progress Party. But this mistrust of coastal fishermen coming from several places, where a fisherman is to be controlled in detail from cradle to grave, is striking. So the slope is that the fisherman doesn't know his own thing. So if the fisherman finds himself wanting to buy a slightly larger boat for reasons of safety or equipment, or for some reasons of well-being, then more people want to take this option from the fisherman. This is so embarrassing that it reminds us of the debate when you would choose whether to go from black and white to color television. The fact that the professional fisherman also manages to perform a leader with the headline “Per’s defeat” shows that the professional foundation fails once again in this editorial, and is soon professionally in line with Watch and Listen. There seems to be a greater commitment to taking the Minister for Fisheries than to appear to be a solid, professionally good professional body for one of them – if not the most important industries in the country. Well, the conclusion is that one has a multiple behind it: a joint committee asks the Minister for Fisheries to consider whether one or more of the points in the letter from the Norwegian Fisheries Team are appropriate for any adjustment of the instructions and to ask him to return to the Storting in his own way. So the question goes on to the Center Party and Pollestad: Has Stortinget stopped the instructions? The question also goes on to the Socialist Left: What fish did the Council of State try to give to the richest? It might also be good to know: who is among these rich sarcsayers who would get this fish? Finally, what is the proposed freezing of the Storting, as the original proposal by the representative of Knag Fylkesnes was? No, described as a ‘political stomach patch’ is a good and comprehensive description of a proposal that received an emergency treatment that was not anticipated but accepted. When one makes a proposal for an 'immediate freeze' and one is on a proposal that simply asks the Minister to consider the letter from the Fisker team, one has gone from one ditch to the other, at least politically. I think everyone sees that today. And it's a shame that the media has let themselves be bitten by the presentation that Knag Fylkesnes and others have been behind. This case is too important for her to experience such a fate. It shows that when it comes to the content of this case, very few people have understood what it is actually about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1784	A brief remark from the undersigned: First of all, the Christian People's Party gives its full support to the contribution made by the case rapporteur in terms of both content and process. It was a well-worked and good article. The Christian People's Party is engaged in a sustainable fishing industry, which I believe is a total accumulation. This matter concerns fishing quotas and the size of the boat. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have a boat size that is adapted to the biological industry of the fishing industry. Through today’s suspension, we have supported the fact that the practices that were, with different practices in the various district offices, were unfortunate. So we give our support for the Minister of Fisheries tightening up and getting to a similar practice. There's no doubt about it. It is also an important signal for the Christian People's Party to give that we fence about the small boats, depending on where the fishing resources are and what fisheries policy we think this country should have. But it's also the way that safety and technology always go up in size, whether it's fish or other areas. This is precisely why policy-makers need framework conditions, such as fences around areas where it is possible to be small and good. And then we believe that the Fiskarlag had good input into the letter that was sent in February, and that there are important shades, and therefore we gave our support to point 11 in the letter. I started by saying that this would be a short remark, and I thought it would be. But after hearing the representative Trellevik and the representative Grimstad earlier in this debate, I ask them to think through the language they choose, the story they make. So it's not like Grimstad says, that it was "accepted" to deal with this matter quickly. It was a majority for that. The Christian People's Party and the Left could have voted down the Right and the Advance Party in this case during proceedings if we wanted to, but we thought that this matter should be dealt with now and not wait until October–November. It wasn't something that was 'kept accepted', but it was a majority for. Then we have no voting on that matter. The undersigned asked in meetings that this matter be retained at committee level, because I thought that this matter – an instruction that we really don't have anything to do with, but that we have to go into sometimes – could be retained and resolved at committee level. Nevertheless, the representatives of the two parties choose to raise this issue. It tells a lot. And it was not only lifted, but in conversations before it was lifted, there were clear signals as to what this would mean if we didn't come to an agreement. I, the undersigned and the Christian People's Party, have gone a long way. Then I expect a completely different language, a completely different story from the two parties to which the Christian People's Party is a constructive opposition party. This has not been constructive from the representative Trellevik and from the representative Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1797	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the implementation of the procedure in the Committee in a constructive and good way. It's been necessary to do it this way because there were few, hectic days to treat it. I would also like to stress that the Left wanted – I say the wish – to deal with this matter as it was done, and join in what the representative Hemdal of the Christian People's Party recently presented. This is not an instruction for the Minister of Fisheries to modify the instructions. But it is a message to the Minister for Fisheries to look at the matter in the light of, among other things. the debate and input that have come in the last few months, both politically and from the industry. Politically, it concerns both the examination by the Storting of the notification of the marine food industry in April and the examination carried out by the Committee on this matter in the last few days, which is currently being discussed in the Chamber. So fit dynamics we have to stick with. This issue is about a regulatory framework that has given a great deal of impetus to discretionary considerations and potential inequalities, such as: how you have been treated according to where you live in the country. It gives the individual fisherman and the individual operator too weak predictability. The desire and the demand for maximum predictability of its operation are something like fishermen, such as other nutritionists, must expect us as politicians to take seriously. That is why it was right for the Minister of Fisheries to give an instruction, as he did in January. I give honor to the Council of State that he would ensure this non-discrimination, which is the purpose of the instruction. The fact that the instructions are being debated and dealt with may not be a reason for making such a great deal of progress. On the contrary, it shows a desire and a willingness to find sensible solutions. The proposer addresses an important issue on the movement of quotas between coastal size groups. That's good. For me and the Left, it is important to debate the basic principles of the fisheries policy, the basic principles of why and how there should be room for both large and small fishing vessels in Norwegian fishing fleets. For there should be no momentary doubt that the Left wants a differentiated fishing fleet, and no one has been more clear that the quota allocation between the fleet groups is fixed than what I and Left have been. Then I'm talking about the main distribution of the entire fishing fleet. That's not what's at the heart of this case, but it belongs, and it's important to say that. I have had the sense of the Norwegian Fisheries Team's approach to the matter as it was given in February, and I still have it, because it balances the need to take account of both the smaller and the larger ships in the coastal fleet. There is a good dynamic in the proposal from the Fiskarlage. That is also what the Committee says in practice in this matter. For the autumn, the sample that has been entrusted with the overall task of investigating structural issues in the fishing fleet shall provide its position or investigation. The overall approach to structural issues in the fishing fleet shall be addressed by the Stortinget after that time. The members of the committee are well-informed people who are certainly involved in the debate on fisheries policy, not least on structure. Nor will I be surprised if they are involved in the debate that today's case brings. But first of all, I am concerned that the sample continues to work unrelentingly to present its assessments and settings on how we should judge ourselves for the future, so that the Storting can carry out as quickly as possible a comprehensive – holistic – treatment of structural issues in the fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1812	I must first say that I am completely in agreement with the representative, Mr Hemdal. There are very special posts from Trellevik and Grimstad, and especially when you know the background history. It was originally Frank Bakke-Jensen who was supposed to be the case spokesperson in this case, but he could not. Pollestad took over that job, reluctantly, and did well. Then I thought it was pretty bad to come up with such a sudden criticism that had not been made in the process at all. I want to start by thanking the presidency and the party groups for opening up to deal with this matter urgently. It shows that one has ears on the Storting, and not the walls that are here are as thick as some want. One has listened to the commitment that has been on the coast, and it has been a great, great commitment around this matter. For this is a matter of great principle importance which lies hidden in a forest of complicated rules. An instruction may seem small, but he actually intervenes in one of the major issues in the Norwegian fisheries policy: who is going to fish the fish? Since the introduction of the structural quota system, where one could split and move fishing rights from one boat to another, there has been a great deal of agreement that this trading system should not be allowed to become a driver in itself for a completely different composition of the fishing fleet. Therefore, a Finnmark model established, where a grouped fleet of different sizes, linked fishing rights to it, and set strong limits on how to move straight up and down in the system. In this way, it is ensured that this structural quota system did not lead to the full adoption of key ideas in the Norwegian fisheries policy. Quota ceilings and county bonds and various other types of rules are expressions of the same intention. What is the central idea of Norwegian fisheries policy? The marine resource laws clearly define the purpose in § 1 and § 2: The fish belong to the community and shall benefit the coastal communities. If we are to be able to create a fisheries that achieve this overarching social objective, fishing must also be effective. Although there are different perceptions of how far you want to go, there is, in any case, agreement at Stortinget that Norwegian fishing needs large, medium-sized and small fishing boats. This gives an important strength for Norwegian fisheries. A variety of fishing fleets are able to exploit more of the vast wealth that exists in the seas and fjords, while helping to strengthen settlements along the whole coast. If the smallest coastal fleet is submerged, the coastal communities, the reception structure and the potential to exploit the smaller populations of the fjords are also weakened. The generals are losing a lot of money on it. This is precisely the consequence of Mr Sandberg's instructions of 12 January. In his eagerness to create a system that is robust, as the result of the request to move and split quotas varies from region to region, he creates an instruction that allows you to move quotas from the very smallest boats to the very largest ones. And how big are the biggest boats in the coastal fleet? Since the length limits of the coastal fleet were changed from 28 meters to 500 cubic meters, the largest boats in coastal fishing are now the same size as the very largest sea-going trawlers. A childhood friend of mine who's in one of the big jets told me recently that they're considering moving to the coastal fleet. As he said, that's where the big expansion possibilities are, that's where our business can grow. If Sandberg's instructions work for a while, it could lead to a concentration of fishing, fewer coastal communities will participate in the closed fisheries, it will weaken coastal communities and weaken the proud coastal culture that is a central ingredient of the Norwegian identity. What I think is directly at odds with what they are overarching with the Norwegian fisheries policy. On this basis, I am very pleased with the Committee's position on this matter. Correctly, Stortinget does not go as far as SV wants. We want to frame the different home groups much more closely while waiting for the Eidensen selection. But the fact that a consensual magnification clearly says that one does not agree with the parts of the instruction that say that one should be able to move quotas from the smallest boats to the largest ones is very, very important for us in SV. I also think it's very important for our coast. The decision further states that the solution to the Fiskerlag is better than today’s instructions. Can't say so. I think this is both a signal to the Minister and a signal to the various selections and distributions that are currently taking place, about what is actually Norwegian fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1831	First, just so I can lower my shoulders a little: when the proposer from SV, the representative Knag Fylkesnes, in his post now twice claims that the instruction, or that in any other context, I have opened to move allowances from the smallest boats to the largest, it is, with all due respect to report, error. There are errors left. When I advanced the instruction on 12 January, I made the shot between 11 metres and upwards. I tightened up and it's in the instructions. But again – today – these claims come from the representative of SV. So it's a little interesting, because in the proposal from the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, he will come back to the function before 12 January. Then you actually opened up so that the allowances from 11 meters could move up. Now the representative from SV is involved in moving allowances from 11 to 15 meters up to 21 meters. I'm going to try not to comment on it any more, because the fact is that I prescribed an instruction on 12 January 2016 – simple and straightforward – on requirements for proportionality between the operating base and the size of the vessel when granting participant access. It wasn't any harder than that. Now I am very pleased that the committee and the committee chairman – the case rapporteur – and others say that it was absolutely right to give the instructions – that was quite right. I'm very happy about that. That is why I am also very pleased that the Committee has rejected the proposal from SV. All SV proposals are rejected. That proposal would have created dramatic conditions in view of what the Committee is now actually agreeing on. It is not more difficult – if I am allowed to go through the four points that the Committee wants me to review, which came from the Fiskerlag: In the case of point one, participant access with a base length of 11 to 15 metres is now assessed up to 21 metres. I have no problem assessing it. I also said that on the day the instructions were promoted, that you must always have that kind of thing to assess. Point two on the treatment of participant access below 11 metres was set out in the instructions, so there is nothing more to consider. I hope the committee does not think that I should review it again, because there we all agree, although I am somewhat in doubt that the representative of Knag Fylkesnes agrees. In the case of point three that it is not considered necessary, it is stated in the instruction – it has been taken care of. Paragraph 3 is taken into account in the instructions. Point four might be a little bit complicated in terms of fishing for mackerel etc. I should not be surprised if it was also taken care of, because in May I changed the regulation on fishing for mackerel. It may well have been taken care of. But, of course, I'm going to evaluate it. I'm going to evaluate all of this, and I'm going to have dialogue with the committee, I'm going to have dialogue with the Fiskerlage – I have no problem with it. But there is an impression – I also have to say that, even though I have learned to live well with it – that you are more concerned about Per than you are about facilitating a business to grow. When Per is going to suffer a defeat, and Per is going to be instructed, I think someone is on the wrong course. Because it doesn't benefit the industry out there. I don't even have a rubber boat. The only intention I have is to follow the decision of the Stortinget, that this industry should be invested in it. Then, with all due respect to report, the phrases I see today, which create enormous confusion out there, are a little sad. When you stand out there and shout that this instruction is stopped, and that I am instructed and have gone on a loss, I think I am a little sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1843	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1846	The instruction came in January, as the Council of State says, and on 4 February the Fiskarlag asked the government to make an adjustment to this instruction. Ingrid Heggø asked early in March Councillor Tord Lien in the Questionnaire whether the Council of State was willing to make changes. Then the council said that it was willing to do if the Fiskarlag were also concerned about this. But the State Council itself, which is the Minister for Fisheries, has repeatedly said that you may not be interested in it. Now there's new tones here, so I'm a little bit unsure about what to deal with. But does the Council feel that he has handled this matter well?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1853	Yeah, I definitely think so. It's handled in the right way. I have listened to everyone who has been interested in this instruction, both before and after, and I have listened to the Fiskarlaget. But even if there are implications for policies of different kinds from different organisations, it's not like any government does. You make political judgements, and I've always said that this is under assessment. So now we've got the numbers on the table. This instruction has not led to any dramatic change at all. Remember, for less than 11 meters, we have an average of 300–400 cases every year that relate to conversion and change. So far, after that instruction, we've found six cases, and they might as well have been promoted independently of the instructions, because it doesn't go into the individual cases. That's what I've been saying all along, ever since the instructions were promoted: if we see dramatic changes here, of course, I'll also have to adjust. But there have not been dramatic changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1860	Then it is interesting to ask whether the Council of State considered having a preliminary hearing on that change of instruction. In addition, we are interested to know when the Council of State will actually follow up the unanimous recommendation of the committee being presented here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1865	There is no consultation on instructions, but consultation on regulations may be considered. But in this case it was up to me, and I haven't heard that someone wanted to change the regulation. If someone wants to change the regulation, it's completely different. But as for the discretion to tell what the regulation does: that's what I've done – I've changed the discrimination that's been in the regulation. That's what's done here. Then I hear that they all, most of them agree with that instruction in that area. That's what I've done – I've listened to everyone who says: Get rid of this unfair treatment. And if you are going to return to before 12 January, you have to accept old practice. The policy has always been there, it's just that it's been bureaucratic, difficult for both industry, government and government, because it's been different from state to state. Now it's equal to treatment, and that's what I've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1872	The maximum content of the Fish Layer's input is point 1, which allows them to be placed on a vessel between 11 and 15 metres in length and that one shall have a length bulkhead of 21 metres. That record has been made by the Minister for Fisheries for several months and has probably evaluated it. My question is: when a Joint Nutrition Committee writes that one thinks that the Fishlayer’s performance is better ‘catching the attention of smaller fishing vessels while providing a certain opening for movement between the different size groups’, and when the Committee and the Stortinget support it, will it have a bearing on the assessment to be made by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1879	Everything that the Storting does has an impact on my work. I think I have said that clearly in the past. There is a clear communication from the Industry Committee on the introduction of a new frontier, if that is the case. I think that I was also quite clear from the pulpit now, while mentioning the other points that I think have been taken care of. Then we are left with a proposal for a decision by the nutrition committee and the Stortinget, which asks me to consider introducing a new limit of 21 metres. Of course, I'll assess that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1886	As the Council of State said in its speech, there have been relatively few things so far. What's scary is that this over time will lead to a change. My question, then, is this: To ensure that it is precautionary, and that the least possible has taken different steps to adapt to the legislation, does the Council see the need to amend the directive quickly, if it is to be amended, in order to clarify as quickly as possible what legislation is in force?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1893	If the regulation is fixed and I see a dramatic change in the movement of allowances or splitting, I have the instruction, and it can change much faster than a regulation. I will follow this carefully in the future, while taking the message from Stortinget seriously. I want to re-assess the whole problem around this by 21 meters. But if there are dramatic changes here, I have the tool that is needed to quickly change the instructions in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1900	The proposal which the Committee on Fisheries, which I believe is a better solution than the one on which the Minister for Fisheries has landed, is a proposal which is very, very much like the original starting point of the department itself, which was then aired with the Fisheries Team. Then the Fiskerlage managed to mess it up a little bit, but finally landed at the same position that the department had originally had. This is found in the e-mail exchanges that we have access to. That means that this is actually evaluated; it was kind of the position that the ministry initially had. How will the Minister deal with this now? It is simply in many ways the original proposal of the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1907	At least I agree that this is a significantly better proposal than the one put forward by the SV – a proposal 169 representatives now say definitely no to, including the author himself, who does not agree with his own proposal, but now joins a compromise in the Committee which is much better. I can just repeat it: in terms of what's left here, based on my assessments, there's a point one relative to this with a base length of 11-15 m and up to 21 m. There I have said, and I repeat it: I will review it, as the committee asks me, and then I will come back to the Storting in an appropriate way, for that is what the Storting asks me to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1915	I don't need to hoove. I don't care about Per, I care about Norwegian fisheries. I think Per is busy with Per, I'm busy with Norwegian fisheries policy. In this case, we have simply managed to see a bomb for what could become, in the long run, a large transfer of fishing rights from boats from 11 m up to the very largest boats of up to 500 kbm cargo space. It could be the reality. It could have very fatal consequences for Norway and for coastal culture. We know that there are 28 applications within the new system that are based on this. There are already few participants in the fish. Small changes could get a lot of results. So my question to the Minister is, Did the Minister see that this could have consequences for the structure of fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1924	I changed the instructions to get equal treatment. No changes have been made before or after the instruction. I would like to send it in writing to Knag Fylkesnes. But it is clear that nothing has been passed on in his proposal. The proposal by the representative of Knag Fylkesnes and SV has been rejected. I must be allowed to say that I am also a little surprised by that proposal, because the proposal first asks for the immediate freezing of the Minister for Fisheries' instructions, which are in conflict, as something wrong, and then asks the government, pending the Eidesen Committee, to lock up all fishing quotas. All of this is rejected by the Storting, and I'm very pleased with that. I am very pleased that politicians can cheer for political victories. But this is the first time I've ever felt that someone carelessly goes out and shouts for a proposal that has been rejected. And then, in the next round, when you join a policy that you at the starting point are opposed to, it's also a strange form of cheer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1933	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1938	Why are you moving quotas? One refers to a number of applications where business owners or boat owners would like to perhaps modernise the vessel, or perhaps buy a slightly larger, safer vessel. We know that the fishermen with the smallest boats have Norway's most dangerous profession. There we have the biggest accidents that we have most deaths. A lot of young people today will have a bigger boat, both for safety reasons and for creating a modern job. You collect rights on a ship, and then you want a bigger boat, a modern job. Maybe you want to make the space so safe because you want to hire someone who can be involved? If you are two men on board the boat, there is a completely different and much safer job than when you are a one-man fisherman on a one-man scarf. The big stories that these are shipowners with supertankers coming down and sneezing in their quota are not the whole truth. It was important for us to get equal treatment. It is for predictability, it should not be that you feel that where you live or who you know in an office, you should determine whether you can develop your business, your boat. That's why it was important for us to do something about this instruction. It has been claimed in this debate that in the maritime food industry communication we stopped the instruction. No, it's not like that. Nothing in the notification of the seafood industry has retroactive effect. The instruction was signed long before that, so it is also empty political rhetoric. Then to emergency treatment. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, here claims that I said no to the Procuratorate because I couldn't, I was north. No, it's wrong. Yeah, it's true that I was up north. Yes, it is correct that I was asked to take the matter before the panel. I talked to the committee leader about it and also got an answer to questions about whether there were leaders from the presidency that it should be dealt with urgently, because I wondered what was so important about this that we had to take it now. I only have seven years in the committee, and many can do more than me on these things. But it has always been that in the matters we have dealt with urgently, the committee chairman has taken the case-presidentship. That is why I said that if the presidency has said that this should be dealt with urgently, I believe the chairman of the committee should take the case-presidentship. And then it turns out in retrospect that that's not right, that's not how it was. That, I believe, is an unworthy treatment. It doesn't do anything good for the political opinion that we get those events. Now the matter has been discussed, we are debating it now. There are a lot of people, including me, who have learned a lot, a lot more about allowances, participant access and quota move up and down. A lot of people have learned a lot more than I did about what the Fiskarlag meant in January, and what they saw in February. My concern is that it should not be too easy for partner organisations to record a quick proposal and then get it dealt with on a little rough terms in Stortinget, and I think that unfortunately has happened here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1951	It is with some wonder that I have heard some of the representatives of the position criticise the process relating to this matter, and I would like to say something about this, even though the representative Odd Omland has to some extent made clear the position of the Workers' Party related to this. We see that there was a need to give instructions, but that you actually give a mission here to the government on the content of this, and I understand – fortunately – that the Council of State is handling it quite correctly. He'll do that, he doesn't have a choice, but I feel it's very correct. At the same time, I need, for the part of the protocol, to give recognition to the job that the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee have done. I think it is a little elegant from this pulpit to come now – after a very intensive procedure – and signal it as the representative of Trellevik and also far on the way the representative of Grimstad actually does. To the material content I believe that SV is in its full right to promote this type of proposal, and I think it is a little strange to hear the reaction to it. Although one does not necessarily agree politically with one another, it is parties who now sit in the government who like to present themselves as both critical and critical of the 'The Establishment' and want to have lively political debates. Yes, then I must say that this round we have had here is the least one should tolerate, and that is important political fields. As far as the proceedings themselves are concerned, I believe that the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee have dealt with this in an exemplary way and have actually contributed to the swift resolution of this matter, and not least that we have managed to bring together all parties. Now, if you say that this is some kind of gastric plaque, then it's a gastric plaque that everyone is involved in, but which, in any case, the Workers' Party's opinion has a political significance, and is an important part of the fisheries policy to discuss. When it comes to the process itself, I have to say that I was present at the delivery meeting and should not refer from it, it is not good cuty, but you have all the possibilities, if you were so dissatisfied with the process, to promote objections to the process during a delivery meeting. Section 23 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament provides an opportunity for a minority in the Committee to raise such an objection; only one third is required to do so. I am somewhat surprised that it is promoted in the Chamber when no procedural objections were raised when we were sitting in committee. It's a little elegant. I will give tribute to the proceedings. I also mean that the choice of the case rapporteur was made quickly, but in a correct way. It was flexible, I think the procedure was out of order, and that there was also a constructive outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1964	In fact, the President finds reason to draw attention to the fact that the only thing the presidency has done is to object to Stortinget that this matter should not be dealt with under § 39(c), that is to say that we decided that it should be sent to the Committee. Of course, it was up to the committee to deal with it on this side of the summer. There's been a discussion about which issues are going up Thursday and Friday, not to talk about Wednesday, and that's the way it is in an interaction between the administration and the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1967	I feel the need to make some comments about the criticism from Trellevik and Grimstad. I think the criticism is grossly unyielding and erroneous. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Workers' Party and – I expect – SV provide support for the process that has been ours. Just to deal with the process that has been taking place: it is the meeting of the Committee on 9 June, and the protocol states that the next meeting of the Committee was not decided, but that it should probably be 15 June to present this matter, so all at that time it was made clear that this matter was to be dealt with quickly. So it's like this, as I have seen – and here I'm not supposed to be sloppy – that when it was accepted that the matter was not to be dealt with according to § 39(c), she would be treated according to § 39(b), but decided before the summer. That was because SV did not go against the procedure that was. It is in any case that I perceive that there was a number in the committee who wanted to deal with this matter, and there was a number in the committee who said at the meeting on 9 June that we should have one meeting in this matter, and that is when we were going to file the case. I'm going to take self-criticism at one point, and that's that I didn't propose myself to speak in the meeting on 9 June. If I had known that Frank Bakke-Jensen was in North Norway and was unable to take on the job at such a short notice, I would have done so. Then the representative says Grimstad that there was a press release from Pollestad. No, no press release from Pollestad has been sent. According to NTB, the Stortinget informed the Council of State that ‘there should be greater restrictions on the possibility of moving allowances from small to large boats’, and that we provide ‘the Council of State with an opportunity to adjust the rate’. I think it's quite possible to read it from the setting here, where we say that we're not some of the material content, that we have a greater sense of the Fishlayer's input, and therefore the government is asking you to change the instruction, so give us a chance to adjust the course. That's how this thing is. If others want to stick to other truths, we get to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1984	I think this case shows us the old British expression that 'the devil is in the details'. Sometimes a deep dive into complicated rules is necessary to find the big fundamental discussions. Why do fishers move on quotas? Frank Bakke-Jensen asked that question, but made a mistake – I don't know if it was intentional or unintentional. We're now talking about that system, or the instructions, where you can move the quota that's in, for example. group 11 to 15 metres. There are questions about which actual length of the boat one can move it to. Here it begins for most people to be difficult to follow. When one found a time of interception at the end of the 1990s, one decided: ‘Okay, those who are now fishing, they get the right to fish.’ One looked at the length of the boats they were then and grouped them after that. But time has passed. People have replaced their boats, and people have gone out of the fishing. Someone has accumulated more allowances after the structural quota system was put in place. That means you can have a boat or a quota that's in the 11-15 meter group, but the actual size of your boat can be over 20 meters, and you're still fishing in the 11-15 meter group. That means that what we're dealing with today is not about people replacing their boats to get safer boats etc., or that one takes your base quota and just swaps the boat. That's not what we're dealing with here today. What we're dealing with is when people structure, when people move from their own boat, for example. part of the quota and splits it into other boats. What we're dealing with is when participant access goes down, when you deposit the years, when you get old or you want to get out of the profession, or the price has become so high that you're tempted to sell your quota. That's when this code comes in. I was at the extraordinary annual meeting of the Fiskarlag Nord on 3 June in Tromsø. It was one and only managed because of this instruction. The race and the mind had only grown and grown. Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag was also present and said the exact same thing. I have also attended the annual meeting with the Minister for Fisheries of the coastal fishing team. We got that same message there. It just happened to me that now we have to do something, because when the fishermen, who actually can personally think of it being possible to move allowances – when they respond to it on behalf of the coastal communities – then I think that we, as big-scale representatives, have to listen and act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e1993	I record in the debate that the representative, Mr Hemdal, does not like my use of words that the proposal for a representative was accepted. Now it is that committee leader Pollestad also used the word «accepted». It was a matter of dealing with this under § 39(c), or was it 39(b). If the representative Hämdal still thinks we should change that, I will take that criticism, but I must admit that I do not fully understand her. I also record that the Christian People's Party and the Left think it's okay that a person goes out in the media with a production that is completely wrong. Not in one word does he criticize the opposition or those who went out and presented the matter completely wrong and on the wrong premiss. So that's okay, but to criticise it in harsh order, he has to save the Storting for that. I'm a little surprised at that. My criticism was that it was wrong and untrue what was presented. I'll keep doing that if it happens later. "Like it or not," in good news. So a few words about the proceedings. I have not said one word, I, but I am criticized for opposing the proceedings. I have not said one word about the proceedings. I haven't said one word about case spokespersons. That doesn't mean I don't have a clue about it, but I don't have a word to say about it. But one thing I'm going to say: I'm glad that a joint committee found that it could only be about a decision that is appropriate for all parties, because there are many who have an interest in this matter. It's not that there's a unique fishing environment behind it, that balance was necessary. In addition, there was an injustice there before the instructions came into place. That one got rid of this injustice that was in the arbitrary treatment from these five offices, I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2004	The President shall not rule on this matter as President, but shall draw attention to three points in his Rules of Procedure, so that there is no misunderstanding as to what they say. One is Section 39(c), which states that the matter should be reviewed for at least one day, and then put on the agenda. The Stortinget has voted down. Paragraph 39(b) simply states: ‘Sended to the Committee’ and that is what has been adopted. Then there is a provision in the last paragraph of Section 23 that one third of the members of a committee may appeal to the presidency if they disagree with the progress plan of a committee. These are the three points referred to in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2015	Of course, I don't want to comment on any process in any way, but I have to say that I'm satisfied. This case has actually shown that it is possible to act quickly, and that it is possible to have a dialogue. I don't remember when it was, but the case rapporteur at least called the undersigned – I don't know if I was in Italy or in Russia. What has been obtained after this case is a comprehensive communication between my department, the Council of State and the Committee, where a lot of documentation and facts have been exchanged, which I think have actually helped to raise the competence both here and there, and which might make it easier in the future, when we have to deal with bigger issues. I fully agree with the rapporteur that there is to be a proposal for a representative. I have been at Stortinget for a long time, and it is an initiative that I would like to welcome from more people, because this is also how differences in policy are made visible. Here we have been shown that SV's policy is not up to date, and that is very good. But it always has to be the way to have access to promoting policies. It is always the case that when you change policies, whether they are in a regulation, in a law or in an instruction, it also gives a bit of a look at the policy. What worries me is that from the Norwegian big business, something is being expressed that creates a huge enthusiasm out there among organizations, businesses and individuals, which is completely wrong. When you now in Nature and Youth cheer because the Storting has stopped this instruction, someone has to correct it, because the instruction has not stopped. When the Fiskarlag believes it is good that I now follow up their proposal, someone has to fix it. When someone actually thinks that I have been defeated because the instructions have stopped and all the quota sales etc. is stopped, someone has to fix it. When it comes to this, I think we all have something in common. I have to repeat that, because the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, is back on this with the purchase and sale of allowances: this is not an instruction for the purchase and sale of allowances. This is an instruction that, alone in the first round, is about how far the state will go in determining the size of the individual vessel to be allowed to use – over 15 metres. When it comes to stopping quotas, there are other areas where you're dealing with it. There we now have a quota selection that looks at it, of course, but here it's all about vessel design.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2027	I only feel the need after the round that has been, to focus on what has actually happened, namely that there has been an initiative from SV that probably did not have multiples in Stortinget. It has been a political process in which the parties have gone a long way, and the committee has come up with a consensus. That's the one we're discussing today. Even though I understand that both the rose can sit a bit far inside a few times, and that it is tempting to wonder that SV's proposal has been changed along the way, I think we should rejoice that we have had a good process. I have spoken to both the leader of the Fiskerlag and the Secretary-General of the Fiskerlag, who I know has read the Committee's settings. They're not based on any reputation, they've read the settings from the committee. They are outstanding people, and they appreciate what the committee had done. Finally, I would like to say that I have never wanted to argue that the representative Grimstad has criticised the process. What I mentioned there was the question of whether it was sent a press release or not. That hasn't happened. But let's think it's soon summer vacation. Perhaps the debate here has shown that several of us may need it!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2038	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2041	I'll try not to say anything that can lure speakers into the list here. Yes, that's right, SV didn't get our exact will. I must honestly admit that I did not believe it entirely either. We wanted to make it so that it was only possible to move within these home groups. Now, where the situation with the instructions to the Minister for Fisheries is that one can move freely between the groups, we will only lock this up within the groups. Then the result was that one can only move within the next group – that's it, no more than that. To say it like this, it's acceptable to me. It has stopped the large rashes this could get. Yes, we're going to right the fishermen, but this is also in the general interest, because it's the community's resource. It is not that only the fishermen's views on this matter are important. It's actually in the general interest how we're going to distribute fish resources in this country, and I think we've found a good balance with this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2050	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2056	The Stortinget is then ready to vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2063	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Helga Pedersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, by Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, 5 and 6, by Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 7-9, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 10, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposals No. 11-19 and 21-24, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that proposal No. 20 have not been taken up, and therefore will not be paid over. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 12–14 and 24, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget for 2017 to increase the income of the municipal sector by a minimum of 6 billion. SEK in addition to the government’s proposal in the municipal proposition for 2017.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for a stronger anti- income bias in the income system of the local government sector.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to earmark funding for care, psychiatry and school health services.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government of the 2017 budget is asked to submit proposals to enable the Husbanken and Kommunalbanken to finance a larger part of the municipal loan portfolio.’ The voting boards showed that 95 votes were cast against and 4 votes in favour. [[(The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.07.55) (More than one representative indicated that they voted incorrectly.)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2118	The president sees that there are so many people who have voted wrong, that she wants to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2129	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the necessary State co-financing in the municipal framework so that the municipal sector can achieve its greenhouse gas reduction target and make the necessary climate adaptations.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to demand competence in the climate and environment of municipal administration.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2152	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–17 and 21, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget for 2017 to increase the State co-financing of the special resource-intensive services scheme.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget for 2017 to submit a plan for stepping up low-threshold psychiatry services in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget for 2017 to strengthen county councils’ income for regional development.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the municipal sector has a financial framework and has built up sufficient facilities for patients before drug and psychiatry are included in the interaction reform.’ The Central Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2185	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 18, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the budget for 2017 to assess and provide a model of how exceptional state resources can be deployed during periods of increasing unemployment in order to reduce the maintenance run in the municipal sector.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to investigate and propose that the financing of the growth grant and the big city grant be made as a purely premise to the municipalities concerned, without recourse to the framework.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2208	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget for 2017 is requested by the Government to report on the financing of child protection in municipalities with overall responsibility for the 1st and 2nd lines and, where appropriate, to propose amendments to make the expenditure coverage in different municipalities equivalent.’» The Labour Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2224	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase of 3 billion in the income of the local government sector. kronor so that the growth in revenue for 2017 is set at 6 3⁄4 to 7 billion. crowns.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2240	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to withdraw the proposals to spend 100 million. crowns of the discretionary means of an arrangement of infrastructure measures for collapsing municipalities. Similarly, not implementing the 200 million additional transfer scheme. kronor to municipalities with more than 9000 inhabitants after aggregation that form a new regional centre.» [[half-yearly effect of 100 million. crowns for 2017]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the implementation of the revised income system for municipalities to be postponed. As a basis for the promotion of new proposals, a wide-ranging public body is set up to assess the criteria of cost-balancing and regional policy subsidies. This is the subject of a wide consultation before proposals are submitted to the Stortinget.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2017 is asked to reintroduce the 100 pst scheme. reimbursement of the costs of child protection measures in addition to the municipal excess.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2268	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for EUR 300 million. crowns for escalating plan in the field of waste.» The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2284	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget for 2017 to increase the income of the municipal sector by a minimum of 3 billion. SEK in addition to the government proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2017.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2301	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stress to the statesmen that their role is to guide the municipalities and sum up the processes and not to review local democratic decisions.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2317	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative proposals which, irrespective of municipal or non-municipal operations, ensure full transparency around key quality indicators, including the manning situation, in the provision of services for which the municipalities are responsible.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the government to continue corporation tax as a State tax.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to phase out the state-funded elderly care experiment from 2017.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-15.ana.ud513e2397	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – It doesn't. Then it only remains for the president to wish everyone a pleasant evening. - The meeting's been cancelled.
