ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e32	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus County: Anne Odenmarck For Busherud County: Lavrans Kierulf For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek The Socialist Group of the Left-wing Group has requested the permission of the representative of Kirsti Bergstø from 13 December and until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the commodity, Johnny Ingebrichtsen, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Johnny Ingebrichtsen is present and wants to take a seat. The Group of the Progressive Alliance has been informed that the licence granted to the representative of Tor André Johnsen on 14 and 15 December has been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. From the Prime Minister's office there are two letters to Stortinget. The first letter, dated October 21, reads: ‘Temporary Management Board of the Ministry of Knowledge The Council of State on 21 October 2016 decided that the Council of State Anniken Hauglie will take over the Administrative Board of the Ministry of Knowledge, in addition to her current responsibilities in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, for up to 4 days in the time when the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will terminate maternity leave.’ The second letter, dated 12 December 2016, reads: ‘See kgl. Res. of 21.10.2016, showing that Torbjørn Røe Isaksen is planning to terminate until 4 days of maternity leave. We are now informing you that the Council of State will terminate the care leave in the period from Monday 12 December to Thursday 15 December 2016. State Council Anniken Hauglie shall take over the Management Board of the Ministry of Knowledge, in addition to her current responsibilities, for the same period of time.’;» The President proposed that the letters referred to should be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e103	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e116	In my view, the centre party's alternative budget is the best climate and environmental budget presented to the Stortinget – the greenest budget. For our alternative is Custom Norway, it's convenient that it carries people throughout the country, and it's convenient that we have businesses throughout the country. It is a budget for a practical environmental policy and an active industrial policy. Some parties seem to believe in an environmental policy that deals with air, love and high fees, well adapted breakfast meetings at restaurants around Stortinget and to interest people in the many thought tanks. It's not what companies need, nor is it what the environment needs. The centre party's green policy is to a large extent about putting nature into work and creating jobs based on natural resources. The centre party is a renewable energy champion. We must have framework conditions, but also the will to say: Yes, we are going to give business cheap and green power, but it will have consequences, because without windmills no wind power, without power lines no renewable effort, without pipelines and dams no hydropower. Similarly, it is not possible to bet on bioenergy and biofuels if we do not agree that we must have forest roads, that we must tolerate the fertilisation of the forest, and that we must tolerate the maximum. It seems that some parties believe that the primary purpose of the forest is that we should look at him. These are not good environmental policies. Our alternative budget also provides for building the long value chains to use natural resources – for the benefit of the climate and to create jobs. When it concerns bioenergy, we have a green investment fund that has seen a capital of 10 billion. kr, because we see that when we are going to build a bioenergy and biofuels industry in Norway, we need a capital injection. This is what the Centre Party does in areas by region. We develop long food chains – linked to the mineral industry, forest industry, agricultural industry and energy industry. Another example of an active industrial policy is our approach to space policy. That's where the key to a greener policy lies, and that's where the key to a forward-looking business policy lies. Norway has the best cheese in the world, a married child of Norwegian agricultural policy. Norway has Europe's lowest antibiotic consumption in food production, a married child of Norwegian agricultural policy. Nevertheless, we have a government that does not recognise how wonderful Norwegian agriculture is and that uses every opportunity to move Norwegian agriculture in Danish direction. Such a government is fast to be replaced. Today Norwegian seafarers demonstrate outside the Stortinget. They will have Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters. The central party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, has a proposal to sort this out. The government won't. But the most eye-catching thing is that the Progress Party's big group also says no to this. One would think that that party had hearts for the seafarers most. Has it now been such that the Progress Party does not have a problem with Norwegian seafarers being competing with cheap foreign labour? I would strongly urge the representatives of the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to support our proposal. It's about a deal. Knowledge has never hurt, and when we know the room for action, we can discuss what kind of policy we want to use. I would also like to thank the Committee for an effective and good budgetary procedure. I believe a whole committee agrees that for future years it could be an advantage to get the finance debate and the setting up something in the past. But we've gone a long way, and we've got an attitude that I think gives a good impression of what's the political position of the different parties. It's because we've had a good cooperation in the committee, and people have said that this is what we're going to do. We have achieved political results, made changes and have been given political clarifications and broad pluralities, including on the Investinor. I would like to thank the Committee very much. So I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the Central Party is behind. I would also like to show that we have submitted a proposal today that mentions the commercial fishing for royal crabs from 1 January 2017, and hope that several parties will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e135	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e142	An overall committee agrees that Innovation Norway is the country’s and county municipalities’ main tool for realising value-creating business development across the country, and that the objectives are more good entrepreneurs, more high-growth enterprises and more innovative business environments. The centre party is involved in a comment that says that: ‘fears that a one-sided focus on innovation effects, without taking into account local ring-effects and value creation, could be at risk of a division of innovation funds, thereby weakening value creation in parts of the country’. What does this mean, and does the Centre believe that Innovation Norway should have objectives other than promoting innovation and industrial development?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e152	The central party's objective with Innovation Norway is to help create jobs, but it should help create jobs throughout the country. But it will also say that if we are to be happy with it, it is very important for the Central Party that there is a close anchoring between Innovation Norway and the community and the region in which the creation of value is taking place. If one comes to the conclusion that there is one that has the greatest innovation effect, where we put all the money into the big cities, then the Center Party disagrees, because we think that the very best thing for Norway in the long run is that we have a smooth geographical smooth outing and new jobs in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e157	One of the proposals behind is that the government should require standard contracts for the processing of plans for the development and operation of petroleum expansions, the so-called PUDs. Today it is the case that the companies are responsible for making the commercial decisions on a Norwegian base. The fact that the Storting will enter and impose upon companies the contract format to be used by the companies is not the way to go, and that is contrary to providing predictable, stable conditions for the industry. Companies themselves are responsible for reducing the cost of becoming more competitive in a demanding global market, regardless of the oil price. The fact that the Storting is going to take the lead in this is not necessarily something that contributes neither to more Norwegian yards getting more work, nor to becoming more competitive. I thought the Center Party was for nutrition and stable conditions on the base. When did you change your position?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e166	I am concerned about the situation we see on Norwegian pedestal no, where the supplier industry is very pressured, mainly because of the low oil price, but the player relationship that one has on the pedestal and in the case of expansion is also a contributing factor. The centre party is busy recognising Statoil's significance, but we see that there is a need for policies to change the power relationship in order to scare the important Norwegian supplier industry. The fact that a PUD is provided, a plan for development and operation, is nothing new, and it is common for some policy leaders to be put in place. It has happened before, and it will happen in the future as well. For example, a required landing is required. Now we want to demand standard contracts, simply because we think it will improve the power relationship between oil companies and the supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e173	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e178	Norway is in a difficult situation. Employment in 2016 is expected to be the lowest in more than 20 years, and unemployment seems to be falling at a high level. We actually have higher leave than the United States. Unemployment has hit us differently in our country – the South and the West the hardest. The working party believes that the government has not gone offensive enough with funds for action packages, and has therefore added 1 billion. kr more in the coming year. Under the government of Stoltenberg II, 360 000 new jobs were created in Norway — two out of three in the private sector. So far under the government of Solberg, 32 000 new jobs have been created – two out of three in the public sector. One thing is that the government is late and has too weak a policy against unemployment, but when almost no new jobs are created, we can say after three years that this government does not succeed with the most important thing: work for everyone. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is no. 1, and that applies to the whole country, not just parts of it. We have some unique advantages here in the country. We're rich in natural resources, we're rich in skills, and not least we have a working life with trust between the parties, a trust that makes change and innovation possible. If we are to translate this into new growth for Norway, we need a government to facilitate it. We must bet on the community and an industrial policy that works, not as the government does, through tax cuts that increase differences without creating new jobs. We must ensure an organized and orderly working life, not undermine what the government is doing, when they add up to more temporary employment and so-called permanent employment without pay between assignments. We have to see the whole country, not just parts of it, as the government does when they build down district policy instruments by hundreds of millions a year. We need to rebuild public bets that make it easy for new businesses to grow, not build up what the government does when they cut in Investinor and the pressure grain system and bottle Argentum. We politicians must give priority where we have priority, not leave it to the bureaucracy, as the government does when they give priority to general schemes. During this period, the Labour Party has driven a targeted and active industrial policy from the opposition, and we are betting where Norway has special prerequisites for success. We have investments in the bioeconomy, the sea, environmental technologies, tourism and the mineral industry, and over several budgets, the Workers' Party has proposed a systematic effort to transfer skills from the petroleum industry to other industries. We have called for a strategic effort at sea to exploit our world-leading environment for new value creation. The Labour Party will invest in the sea space, but there is a crucial difference between us and the government – we will do it in a way that creates jobs, and we will do everything we can to make it work with proper pay and working conditions. That's our ambition. Then we have to have an investigation of the action space in the ocean room and use the tripartite cooperation. Today, the rest of the Stortinget has the opportunity to support us in it, by voting for the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. To create new values, the research community and industry need to cooperate more closely. For this reason, we propose research centres for the marine environment, using the model of research centres for environmentally friendly energy, where research and business are part of long-term cooperation. Close cooperation is needed between enterprises and across industries. That's why we're betting more than the government on cluster programmes, and we've proposed a top industrial centre where Norwegian businesses and research can work together to meet the digital future. The Labour Party is concerned that the government is not doing enough to prepare us for the future. Technological change is accelerating and is taking several sectors of society. The government is lagging behind in ensuring the necessary competence to achieve this. The Labour Party has put in 1000 new study places and facilitates programming in primary school. The Workers' Party will pursue an effective climate policy that works for the business community. That's why we have a climate package that provides new opportunities for industry and that cuts emissions. Let me finish where I started: Norway needs new jobs. Many of these will come from established enterprises, but a significant proportion will have to come from new companies that are also large. The Labour Party will strengthen the growth potential of Norwegian start-up companies, among others. through early stage capital. In this budget, the government will do the opposite. The government proposes to withdraw 1.25 billion. kr from Investinor, without being able to say anything about whether this would have weakened the growth capacity of Norwegian enterprises. I think we need a new direction and a new government, and in doing so we take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is with others or alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e197	The representative Else-May Botten has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e206	The government has significantly strengthened, simplified, improved and expanded the takeover order for seafarers since it stood still after the previous government. And now, the Labour Party will be able to improve the generalization of Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian shores, while wanting more activity on Norwegian shores, and at the same time wanting more goods from land to sea. More goods from land to sea are measures that the Labour Party has strongly supported, but my question is: How does the Labour Party see that this measure – more goods from land to sea – will be affected if we introduce Norwegian pay and working conditions for all those who transport goods along the Norwegian coast and to and from Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e211	I'm very happy to get that question. It is important to get more goods over at sea, and there I would say that the government has come up with a system of measures, which is the conditioning system, but we also see that it does not hit. The working party will have better arrangements to make it actually work, and we also want to have an incentive scheme for commodity owners to focus more on it. In the case of working conditions on a Norwegian base, it is important that we find out that we get the skills we need to see what we can do about Norwegian pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base. And this is nothing new that the Workers' Party has come up with now, we presented a package of measures 3 in 2013, where we said that we need to find out, and we want to take this into account. Then there was a change of government. Monica Mæland, Minister of Industry, has set up a sample that has looked at this and has pointed out that this should be done. Why the Right is afraid of that knowledge, they must answer for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e218	Right is never afraid of knowledge, nor in this case. However, the experience with the generalisation of tariffs from other sectors is that Norwegian jobs are not necessarily favoured. The jobs will not be represented by Norwegian workers. The experience is that the costs go up, we see all the places where this is done, and then my question is, again: Does the Labour Party not see that this will have negative consequences for the action to get more goods from land to sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e223	What the Labour Party sees is that there are major challenges to this, and when we hear episodes that people get 35 kroner per hour on Norwegian pedestal, it must be important to get this information and that knowledge, and I hope that both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party will be among the minority to look at this investigation. What's going to happen afterwards, no one has said anything about it, but acquiring that knowledge will help us to get more information and a better basis for finding out what we're doing. The parties in this context stand apart for miles, and it shows that there are major challenges in the industry around this, and that it is important to put in place good solutions. Then we have to take responsibility for doing what we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e228	The size has said that we should reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Stortinget has also said that we should have 15 pst. Organic consumption and production areas, and the Stortinget has said that we should increase food production as population grows. According to the trade unions, conversion to organic farming results in a reduction in production and greater greenhouse gas emissions due to rotation in production. How will the Workers' Party meet the three objectives of organic production, increased food production and reduced emissions? And does the representative believe that Stortinget will continue to spend more money on producing less food and releasing more greenhouse gases?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e235	This is a discussion we've had in Stortinget recently. I think yes, we should have increased food production. Then we have to put the whole country into use, and then we have to have an agricultural policy that helps us to take advantage of the land around the country and not just build up under great use. The channelling policy is important in this context. In the case of organic farming, a broad majority of the Stortinget has said that we should increase that production by 15 pst. by 2020. Then we have a common responsibility for it. We have said that the government should come back to the Stortingen with measures, and that this should be discussed in the Single European Act now in the first place. But the Council of State has promised that he will come back to Stortinget with a strategy in which we have the opportunity to discuss the various measures to achieve this goal. We also see that consumers are now focusing more and more on organic food.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e242	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e248	Conversion is a worn term. That is the rule and not the exception in the modern world. Station is the start of the recurrence. The government provides a budget that focuses on work, activity and change. An offensive business is at the heart of meeting the challenges. In business, the jobs that carry our common well-being, our capacity for publicly funded well-being, are created and developed, and that give protection and social belonging to each of us. I deeply disagree with the Workers' Party's figures. It's easier to increase public spending and finance it with tax increases than creating the private jobs of the future with a value creation in itself that can bear our welfare level. The oil price drop has fully illustrated the challenge. It's probably only in retrospect that we're going to fully realize what a fantastic period of oil activity has given Norway over the last decades. This applies both to each of us and not least to the Norwegian state. You don't want to find new industries with the same tax potential as oil. This period is hardly coming back. The oil price drop this time differs from the previous case. Very few believe that the oil engine's power comes back with the same strength. It is noted when workplaces with a value of between 8 and 10 million. kr behind each workplace disappears. The government has, ever since the accession, met with offensive policies to build our long-term competitiveness. Infrastructure, transport and knowledge are at stake as never before. This provides opportunities for the whole country and increases the flexibility and ability of the workforce to meet the new challenges. It simplifies and improves and invests in industrial research through SkattenFUNN, Renew 2020 and BIA, and the industry responds. It is not called for precisely by more regional development funds. It is called for more by the same policy. Innovation and innovation are at stake. The founding activity records, and the number of start-ups is increasing. Norway is an innovative country, but the challenge is to drive ideas until they become larger businesses. There are also offensive initiatives here, whether on seed funds, cluster programmes or lowthreshold offers through institutional grants and loan schemes through Innovation Norway. What surprises me is that the opposition continues to hold on to the mantra on property taxes and discrimination against Norwegian ownership of Norwegian jobs when the reality is that the promising ideas are too easy to be moved and sold out of the country. There are considerable regional differences in developments in Norway right now. The south and west continue to experience a decline with an oil industry that is struggling. The budget contains targeted incentives for this part of the Norwegian economy. The rest of the country is experiencing recovery as a result of a policy that focuses on competitiveness. A weaker Norwegian krone is part of this and shows that the rest of the world and markets at least consider that the government balances well between using oil money to invest in Norway’s opportunities and stimulating new activity and spending money on public budgets. There is optimism in the more traditional, competitive industries, and it promises well for the future. The budgetary agreement between the Government and the Christian People's Party and the Left has made improvements to an already good budget in the field of business. There is a willingness to invest in competitive measures. Norway has a fantastic starting point. We have a solidity in the Norwegian economy that other countries envy us, and the government is now using the freedom of action it has to meet the need for conversion in the Norwegian economy offensively. The main message of the budget is to stimulate long-term enhanced competitiveness. It works, and it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e272	The main project of this government is tax cuts. Now we hear that they're doing it to create new jobs. The problem is that only the government itself believes in this. When they came into government, the experts warned. Only 3 of the 20 economists that VG spoke to agreed that the wealth tax code would work. In 2015, economists again warned that cuts in property taxes were not the right medicine. We have asked the government many times without getting any answers. One thing is that economists, government officials, state councils and state secretaries are unable to find the results of government policy, but even more important is the fasitancy: employment has not been so low in 20 years, and new jobs are not created in the private sector. When are the tax cuts going to work? When do the workplaces come?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e277	I think the representative believes the employment rate when she talks about employment, because Norwegian employment has increased in the last 20 years. I am reasonably sure of that, but we can go in and check it out afterwards. It is a fundamental belief in the right that locally anchored ownership is important for innovation and innovation. The fact that the Workers' Party to the degrees speaks down the local private ownership and at the same time is concerned that companies move out of the country and are bought by foreign investors is simply quite incomprehensible to me. We have a basic ideological belief that having contact between local ownership and those working in the company has a value in itself. Any report that says the opposite, I'm going to put a big question mark on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e285	We have a bureaucracy: new directorates, new supervision, and bureaucracy are growing. I want to focus on something called the Board of Rules. Next year, one is going to add 8.6 million. to appoint bureaucrats with the aim of fighting red tape, it is said, but in practice they have the responsibility to ensure that the distribution instructions are followed. They very often give red cards to the government, but the government doesn't follow them. The director of the Board of Rules, Sandra Riise, has said to today's industry that unless the government listens to their recording, she fears that the Board of Directors can become a soup council. My question to the representative of Gundersen is whether he believes that setting up more bureaucrats to look for the distribution instructions is the solution to defeat the bureaucracy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e292	I think the rule board is a good idea, considering that we might need someone to keep an eye on what's going on. We'll see. In Sweden, regulatory experience is very good, so we are allowed the Norwegian Regulatory Board to start up before we start discussing how they deal with the situation. In other words, there is also a balance between the creation of control bodies in a market economy. There's a lot of confusion around it with the free market. It's not free. It has to be monitored that things happen according to laws and regulations, and you have to make sure that all the actors behave well. So that balance is demanding, but I think the government is doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e299	Goliath is a platform in the Barents Sea. It's owned by Eni and Statoil, as we know. They produce for 50 billion. kr per year. The cost of bringing this oil into the markets is between 700 million. And 800 million. kr. It's divided into three tankers. None of the crews on board those tankers are – as far as we know – Norwegian. There's a very good economy in this -- they're loaded with money when they leave the Barents Sea. It benefits society, but not in terms of transport. Then my question to the representative Gundersen is: is it not right to adopt Norwegian wage and tariff conditions and is it not right that we should have Norwegian standards – including for safety – for Norwegian seafarers, who are not allowed to rent on board because they are too expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e306	This is a major challenge – we can agree on that. Stoltenberg II added to the investigation, because it was simply not feasible. Well, that's a little bit of a statement. It's a choice in a dirty year. The adoption of Norwegian pay and working conditions for Norwegian ships would be the same as trying to set up a wall around Norway's most international industry. Consider a situation in which a ship will go to seven different ports in seven different countries within a few days, and then operate under different conditions unless Norway also states that it is the flag country that determines pay and working conditions. But we agree that this is a major challenge. I just noticed that the previous government – the red-green – added to the investigation precisely because they concluded that this was too complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e315	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e320	Norway is essentially a good country to live in. The standard of living is high, and the Norwegian dream, which is actually much easier to achieve than the American dream, lives in the best of order. When my father was born, life expectancy for men was 63 years. A few decades later, when I was born, it was increased to 75 years. We have a well-developed healthcare system, which sees every patient, and consists of fires that go to work every day to save lives. We have an education offer that is getting better and better, with competent teachers and assistants, who are going to be able to fill in with even more knowledge and competence. In a relatively few years after Siv Jensen and Øystein Djupedal found a common nursery tone on a committee trip, we have achieved what is perhaps the world's best kindergarten offer, at least in terms of quantity – but it also maintains a high quality level due to many dedicated and dedicated employees. We even have the opportunity to pay families that do not use kindergartens. Not many countries can afford it. The main reason we live in such an amazing country is – believe it or not – not completely insanely capable and foresighted politicians. It's because we have workers who get up every single morning, put on the kettle or the medical coat and go to work. It is because we have employers in the private sector who have chosen a different path from the safest one. They are the ones who have invested what they had, who have met the wall many times, yet have never given up. It's these that pay for the fun we have in these days to distribute benefits and burdens and distribute billions to more or less good measures. These are the backbone of Norwegian society, and these are the ones we need to help, motivate and facilitate to contribute even more. The cake has to get bigger in the years to come if we're going to have enough pieces for everyone. At the beginning of October, the government presented a budget for work, activity and conversion. The Norwegian economy as a whole and a large part of our business life is now in a demanding period. It requires action, and it requires action. In 2017, the non-socialist parties prioritise action that promotes more jobs, that improves well-being, and that ensures the daily life of most people. However, the switchover is not new. Sometimes it seems that we politicians believe that businesses only now know what it means to adapt to a changed market or to create new products. The difference now is that the large conversion has come much faster than many saw separately. Of course, the most severe fall in oil prices of 30 years has created uncertainty in important parts of the Norwegian economy. Fortunately, the oil price has almost doubled from the bottom of the line, but we all know that there are tough years ahead of us. New jobs must therefore be created, and those already in existence must be secured. The main measures are the long-term ones. They shall ensure competitiveness and adaptability and stimulate growth in private, competitive business – the economy that delivers to the State budget and that does not live under the State budget. Government parties opted to simplify, renew and improve Norway. We've kept that promise, and we're going to follow it up in next year's budget. We make everyday life easier for businesses and people most. We've reduced the cost of business by 11 billion. kr in total. We have reduced and simplified forms and increased electronic communications between companies and the public. Employment taxes are falling, taxes on Norwegian ownership are falling, and labour input taxes are falling. We get better public communication and construction. Since Stortinget got a new majority, the appropriations for travel have increased by 50 p.m., from 40 b.m. NOK 60 billion. kr. The maintenance run on the road and track goes down after many decades for the first time. It means something to our business. We're going to bet massively on renewal. Since this government took over in 2013, the resources for industrial research and innovation have increased massively. The investment in research, innovation and entrepreneurs – transition in practice – has increased by 2.7 billion. kr. It means something to the jobs we have today, and the ones that businesses will create tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e337	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e342	Seafarers, ship officers and engineers are the backbone of Norwegian maritime competence. The working party fears that there will be fewer of them, and that young people will not be willing to be part of the industry, because they see an industry with poor working and pay conditions. In our third action plan on social dumping, which came in 2013, we proposed to explore the possibility of demanding Norwegian terms and conditions of pay and work on shipping that carry out missions off the Norwegian coast. The government has refused to follow up, but today the Progress Party has the opportunity to contribute. All they have to do is vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV for an investigation. The Progress Party will vote in favour of this, and if not – why is there a fear of getting more knowledge about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e347	I think it is touching that the Workers' Party has finally received attention and shows care for Norwegian seafarers. Unfortunately, I believe that this proposal is to throw blues in the eyes of a large profession. We know from the past that in practice it will be very difficult, almost impossible, if not illegal, to get to. So I also believe that we should ask ourselves a control question in these kinds of matters: do we want other countries to do the same? What if, for example, China, Indonesia or Malaysia decided that no one working in their waters should earn more than the average in that country? That would have hit Norwegian seafarers massively. Then I believe that the measures you know have to be taken, especially in times of stress. The Progress Party wants a fully-fledged, good net pay system in line with what our neighbouring country has. We know that, and we want to develop that further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e354	The Norwegian seafarer, seafarers, is the basis of the maritime industry. Traditionally, the Center Party and the Advance Party have some say that we must have a policy that reaches both the seafarers and the mariners. It may now appear that government cooperation with Right has led to the closest of the ranks to the heart of the Advance Party. In the previous answer, the representative said that this was difficult, impossible, maybe it was illegal. I would like to remind you that when it comes to the transport industry, on the highway, the Progress Party has been a champion in fighting cabotage and getting clear rules for it, while when it comes to seafarers, it's a fear of gaining knowledge. What is the fear of progress in such an arrangement that a person cannot vote for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e359	Of course, the party of progress is not afraid of knowledge. We are not in any areas, nor are we in this area. As I also said in my previous answer, I believe that we should think carefully about, and that in demanding times you should choose what you know to work. If that's what we know to work out, it's that a good, full-fledged net pay system solves many of the challenges that exist at sea today. The Progress Party wants to further develop the net pay system we have already improved and strengthened, to become a fully-fledged, good net pay system in line with the one we have in, for example. Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e365	I must honestly say I am disappointed that the Progress Party is not willing to lift a finger for Norwegian seafarers. Here we have a big vision about the port of Norway, about the sea space, etc., and then we see a development where fewer and fewer of those working on Norwegian boats are Norwegians, Norwegians. It is because one does not offer the conditions that Norwegian workers must have in order to live a life in Norway. So I want to ask the representative, when we're going to make a vision about the port of Norway, bring a message to the spring, etc.: How do I know the Progress Party that the big sea bet will take place in Norwegian hands, with Norwegian seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e370	SV uses both this question and the previous question from another SV representative that we should have a Norwegian offshore industry, that we should have oil and gas activity. I think the most important thing to keep Norwegian seafarers is that you actually have offshore activities, that you have oil and gas activity. It is an industry that SV is largely opposed to by definition. I'm not sure Goliath would have had life's right if it was SV who ran in this room and in the government offices. When SV and the representative Knag Fylkesnes say that we have not lifted a finger, that is obviously not correct. We have repeatedly strengthened the net pay system, from the moment we entered the government offices, and we intend to continue to do so. I mean, as I said, we're going to do what we know works, and that's what we know works, is that a good net pay scheme helps to strengthen Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e377	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e382	Last year’s new word was ‘green change’, this year I think maybe many people feel that they have heard ‘green change’ sometimes too much. The green shift has been central to budgetary work, and it has also been important for the Christian People's Party in the work on the food budget, because if we are to cope with the green shift and the transformation we must undergo, we need green, sustainable and viable industries for the future. It has been the starting point of the Christian People's Party for our alternative budget, from which we can now see results in the budget unit. Finally, we have started to start up a CO 2 fund for business. Such a fund, which has long been sought by industry, will be important to ensure the financing of more environmentally friendly technologies and to contribute to the replacement of fossil fuels. In the budget agreement there is also agreement on a flat CO 2 tax. I am very pleased that an important preliminary derogation has been made for the agricultural and fisheries industries, as we know that an increased CO 2 tax will have serious consequences for these industries. The agricultural and fishing industries must also take their cuts and be part of the green shift. For this reason, two party-consolidated samples should be set up, which should look at the possibilities that exist without going beyond the overall objectives: that we should be the world-leading seamat, that we should increase food production, and that we should have agriculture across the country. When I'm on a farm visit, I meet innovative farmers who think new about how they want to run their farm and produce greener today than yesterday. They'll be part of the green shift. Agriculture itself has wanted to put in place a climate advisory system under the direction of the Farming Team. It is now in place, and such advice will provide advice based on the situation and conditions of the individual farm. That's how we get the most effective measures put out in life. This will result. Other important climate measures in this industry are feed and fertiliser research that will contribute to greener and more efficient agriculture. The bioeconomy we know will play a more important role in future business. The OECD has assessed the value creation potential of the bioeconomy as high and global initiatives are now being taken to promote the bioeconomy. Therefore, it is very gratifying that through the budget agreement, we have managed to double the year’s allocation to bioeconomy under Innovation Norway: 50 million. kr in addition to the 40 million. kr which was there by the government. I am sure this will contribute to new and green value creation in the future. Biomass can give us food and energy and in addition replace many of the products we today store of oil. Then, once again, Stortinget saves three-based innovation program. It is a targeted programme and an important programme. Fishing has been and will be an important cornerstone of Norwegian coastal communities, and one of our most important export industries, which is becoming increasingly important. To have sustainable governance, we need to know how much we have and how much we can take out. That is why it is very good that the government initially wanted to spend more money on stock research in 2017, and that – through the negotiations with the Left and Christian People's Party – this allocation is also increasing. Knowledge is the key to getting enough and proper fish resources. Finally, I would like to state that non-governmental organisations are an important resource for society. They do an important job for the community. As a politician, I want to facilitate a strong civil society. The government's proposal to change the support to the organisations of the Ministry of Agriculture from basic support to project support will lead to more bureaucracy and less predictability for these organisations. It was therefore important to stop this conversion that the government offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e415	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Christian People's Party on an important impact. That's for real. It concerns both three-based innovation programmes, support to organisations, etc. These are important things. But we see a turnaround in Norwegian agriculture, where aid favours the big ones to a greater extent. There will also be new proposals, for example: amending the regional breakdown of milk quotas, which could mean further centralisation and a strengthening of the trend towards larger units, and the fact that more area out in the peripheral zone is actually out of operation. I will ask the representative of the Christian People's Party whether this is a development that the Christian People's Party will support in the future – that is. the conversion of the regional allocation of milk quotas, but also the strengthening of support for the very largest, and the reduction of the number of victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e424	First of all, thank you very much for the praiseworthy words that the representative believes. I take them seriously. Yes, we have managed to take important action for agriculture in this year's budget, both by increasing measures right to farms and by enabling us to take out more forestry, which I also know the representative is concerned about, by increasing timber brands and forest roads. I can also assure the representative that the overall goal of the Christian People's Party is to increase our food production, and that we will have agriculture throughout the country. Then we need small, good farms, we need the medium sized ones, and we need them a little bit bigger, because our resource base is like this from topography. We don't want to reduce the number of milk regions to ten. It's unacceptable to us, because we're going to keep the grass where it is, and have milk production there. We know what unfortunate experiences we had when Akershus and Østfold were together. It tells me that here we're going to be careful.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e435	I would like to be like the representative of Storberget to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for what has been achieved in the budget negotiations. I also get to be clean and say that I give the rose in a somewhat more moderate form than the representative Storberget did, but the rose is still real. My question is about the maritime industry, of which the Christian People's Party has been busy. I register that the Christian People's Party in the vote does not support the proposal to settle Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party does not? Could it happen in the course of the debate that the Christian People's Party comes to the conclusion that a person wants to support such an arrangement and get that knowledge on the table, so that we can decide when we know what action room Norway has?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e442	I also thank the rose representative Pollestad for giving, however, in a little less embrace. I'm going to think that in a few months there's a choice, and then we're going to meet in other arenas. There is no doubt that agriculture through the position of the Left and Christian People's Party in the last four years has come out well, because it helps little to be in opposition, which the Centre Party has chosen to be, and sit and shout. It's in the position you have your hand on the steering wheel, and then you get control. Turning to the question: In the government where the Central Party was holding hands, it was said that the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement contribute to the protection of Norwegian economic interests and Norwegian welfare, both directly and indirectly. I think it's a good support board that we can take along. An investigation can question such important carrier boards, and there is no Christian People's Party so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e451	The landing order was the agent inside. It's very good, when we're going to harvest from nature, that we have control of what we get in, and what we produce and sell out. The landing regulations have worked a little, and we're going to adapt it, but the industry says – I've even dealt with the slohans on my hands with company managers, and they've told me how detailed this is – that neither large nor small companies are able to follow up all the details it requires of them. Then I wonder whether the Christian People's Party and Hemdal, with their focus on the soft values, are obscene at these detailed points of the landing regulations, that they can be too detailed and too rigid – yes, so much that they can even work against their purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e460	Thank you very much for a detailed and good line. I have great respect for having a co-representative who has the slohans on. Unfortunately, I can't say that I've had this last week. Yes, I'm aware that it can be a very detailed regulation. We have also received assurances from the government councils and parties that the hearing that has taken place will take this seriously and that the design of the regulation will not be so detailed. At least that's my hope. Then I'll follow up on it later – over the rest of this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e468	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e473	Greater commitment to marine research and development has been one of the most important issues for me during this major period. In the 2014 alternative state budget of the Left, we introduced a sharp increase in funds, for example: file research. We still have that every year since, including for 2017. It's the kind of bet that's needed to make sure that we're the world's leading seamate. I am making this happen because the fishing and aquaculture industry and all the other parts of the marine sector are creating enormous values. It provides food for Norwegian and foreign food tables, and Norwegian seafood has a major and outstanding impact on Norwegian coastal communities and the Norwegian economy. That's how I want it in the future as well. Many tens of millions in value creation are lost because we haven't invested enough in stock research. That's how we'll lose in the future if we don't bet any more in this area. One extra crown for stock research will give you multiple returns. This also applies to other marine research. More research, Nofima and others are fantastic resources, which I hope can provide even greater albuero space in marine research for the future – whether we are talking about salmon research, luxuries research, market research and research on low-exploited species and other marine organisms. A majority of the cooperating parties’ comments refer to the setting up of joint committees to assess the possibility of introducing a phased CO 2 tax, including for fisheries and agriculture, provided that the objectives of rural policy, agricultural policy and fisheries policy are met. I am pleased that it is established that these samples should be broadly composed of representatives from different parts of these industries, and that other positive climate effects of these industries can also be seen. I know that the organisations work well on both the fisheries and agricultural sides to reduce climate emissions. It is affordable, and this work in the industries must be made clearer. Work on sample groups of parties will contribute to this. There is a certain distance between the Left and the government parties in agricultural policy. It is reflected in the work done on the Storting throughout the year, including in the budget. For my part, I am satisfied with the budget that is now being presented to agriculture, because the final result is close to the Left. Not least, it is important to me that the ecological effort at Tingvoll, which we agreed on last year, is continued. The work done by the ecological environment at Tingvoll at NORSØK and NIBIO must be central to achieving the ecological objectives of the Stortinget. I expect it to involve research and development in the years to come, as was the intention of last year's budgetary agreement. Green transition, more environmentally friendly jobs, more risk capital for early stage investments – there are important messages in Left's industrial policy. As well as Sivas incubation programme, the eco-innovation scheme under Innovation Norway as research and development contracts are examples of good targeted schemes Left will strengthen. At the same time, new measures are needed. I am talking about new, targeted seed funds, a dedicated technology transfer programme from oil and gas to new industries, health and care innovation and a global focus on ICT both in the public administration and in the school sector. It is particularly important for me to ensure risk capital for early stage investments through the public instrument. Finally, I would like to stress that I am satisfied with the way in which we have addressed the issue of Investinor and the three-based innovation programme, and that support for organisations under the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture continues as before and is not linked to project support.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e504	The left has a long history as a green party – and often adorns itself with it – and has good measures in many fields that need to be characterised as green. The forest is one of them, the development of the forest as a truly new growth industry in Norway, the creation of biofuels. The representative Farstad addressed the issue of tree-based innovation and put that programme in place. I'm very happy about that. But there's one thing I'm wondering about – and I've taken it up before – when I read Left's alternative budget. It's that maybe one of the prerequisites for getting more tree-based innovation, getting more biofuels that are of a healthy generation and a healthy alternative, is that we get the timber out. There, the Left goes into its alternative budget by cutting not only a little bit, but 72 million. kr. How does it relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e511	Thanks for the good words about the green profile of the left, we've talked about that before. With regard to the matter of forest roads, there is a question that I have repeatedly received from both Storberget and others. The left has decided, through its consideration of that matter in our bodies, that we should cut in that area. It's climate considerations that come first there. Now we have an agreement with the government parties that I think is very good, and with which I am very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e520	Although I have a great sense of the representative of Farstad, this debate is not free-lance. This is the fourth budget left to form, and we're already starting to see in a way the phase of the cooperation agreement that one has had. The output doesn't go down, they go up, and the number of green workspaces has to be really looking with magnifying glass to find. What assessments does Pål Påstad make of the budgets we have behind us? Has it been a success to cooperate with the Progress Party and the Right in Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e527	The left has gained a great deal in entrepreneurial policy, in environmental technology and also in having a green profile on industrial policy. I can't see that we'd gotten a better profile on it with a different alternative than what we have today. We have shown through our alternative budgets that we are even more ambitious than what we get through the agreement and through the budgetary agreements, but I feel that we have come quite far from what we experienced when other parties ran into the government offices. That's left-wing satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e534	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e539	The Left and Christian People's Party turned to the Right and the Advance Party after the elections, overstated that there would be more green conversion. Today, three years later, when the fourth state budget of their country is immediately finished, we see that emissions are increasing, and there is a long way between each new green job. The question we can ask ourselves today is, where did it go wrong? The first thing that the blue alliance did was give billions to the richest. This increases the differences in Norwegian society, which in itself weakens business. The OECD has demonstrated that the long trend of income inequality in almost all OECD countries has damaged economic growth. The theory of blue-blue was that taxes were anti-growth, but they couldn't find economists who thought it would be growth-creating. The second thing that the blue alliance did was give artificial impulses to parts of the oil industry instead of turning this competence and technology into industries for the future. The oil price drop is a major challenge for an oil economy, but the crisis is increasing if one does not turn available capacity and competence into other industries. The result is that many skilled foreign workers have now left the country, a jobless person is in the process of becoming established, and great opportunities for industrialisation are lost. The third that has identified the industrial policy of the blue alliance is resistance to active industrial policy. The market shall be crude, the State shall withdraw. There are different situations in which: the sale of state-owned companies; reductions in Investinor and depreciation rules liberalisation in fisheries, agriculture and forests absence of ICT strategy the weakening of laws protecting workers and seafarers, etc. The common feature of this line is that Norway, Norwegian coastal communities and communities, are losing. The big investor environment wins. A larger part of the value creation goes out of the country. Who really fights for the blue alliance, the question is more and more asking themselves in the Norwegian community. Measured in budget crowns, SV has the most active industrial policy of all at Stortinget. We think it has to be done now if we are to get to the great transformation that Norwegian society has to make. The commitment made by SV shall be on the premises of the environment and the people. We choose consistent industries that tolerate the Paris agreements, and a policy based on value creation benefiting the Norwegian people, not that Norway should become just a host country for the big companies. Norway is a sea country, and no matter how the future becomes, the sea is going to be central. We therefore propose that a comprehensive innovation programme be set up, which we have called the future of Marine, to create an industrial and sustainable future at sea, combined with a yardlifting effort. Furthermore, we propose to start work on electrifying the coast through various schemes to phase in electric ferries and electric scarves, general electrification of coastal transport and shore-side electricity. Norway has great opportunities to go from being an industrialised country in fisheries, agriculture and forests to becoming an industrial nation. Therefore, we will set up a dedicated innovation programme within the bioeconomy. The major x-factor in society and business is technology. Nothing changes again. Technological developments are progressing more rapidly and digitisation has begun. The digital approach to services and production has gone from a curiousness in the office props to becoming an integral part of such diverse areas as health, education, industry and the police. Norway is not involved in development. Globalisation has turned around with these technological developments, with the emergence of the next generation of industrial technologies. To meet all of this, SV proposes a faster transition through a new digitalization program in Innovation Norway. We provide 1 000 more ICT places of study in higher education and a package of training measures for all occupations, which goes under the title Lifelong Learning. We want to facilitate the conversion of Norwegian industry by making the depreciation rules better, investing even more in the Katapult programme than the government has done, and having different schemes to lift business across the country. I would also like to mention our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e583	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e590	It is sometimes a bit remarkable to hear the representative Knag County describe the desert of the coast. He is very correct in his remarks when he says that ‘Norway is a sea land’, and that regardless of development, ‘the sea will be central’ — dot — perhaps with the exception of the variations in tides and feathers. But we have to leave it. I read in SV's notes that recruitment to fisheries is falling, and that the Minister for Fisheries is increasingly excluding young people from participating in fisheries, although we can provide both figures and stories that show the opposite. The inaccuracies in the mention of what is happening on the coast are quite large. I'll quote a little bit: ‘The price of allowances has gone up and it may be more expensive to get a fishing quota than to get a house. This member will reverse these developments.’ I have two questions. One is, how big is the house to get? The second is, how much cheaper than a house should a fish quota be?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e603	Yes, what are we going to answer to that? It should be cheaper to get into a profession than to buy a place to live. What's a little bit strange about the question of Hill-Jensen is that he adds that it's really good with the developments we're now seeing. What we've heard enough from the blue-blue and from the Hill-Jensen is that it goes sour along the coast. It is quite right that exports are increasing, but what we in SV are concerned about is what value creation is going to do. Are the common people along the coast values going to, or is there any other environment? What's a fact about the policy that the blues are pursuing is that more of the value creation is going to pay debts, and it's going to be more expensive for young people to get into the fishing industry. One must have a much more nuanced view of this than the representative of Bakke-Jensen, if one is occupied by the people along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e608	In all debates, the SV representative is quite one-sided when it comes to the coastal fleet and the oceangoing vessels. He is very one-sided on the coastal fleet's side and is concerned about the coastal communities – which can be good enough. But it's now such a time today that 70-80 pst. of what is taken from the sea is taken by the coastal fleet. The rest is taken by the ocean-going fleet and we have a fairly smooth supply of fish on the market throughout the year. We know, among other things: that fish being fished, which are ice and so-called fresh, can lie up to three weeks on board, ice, while a boat with freezers on board, a so-called seagoing boat, freezes the fish, treats it, and after three hours he is frozen and taken care of. The question is: what would the representative prefer to get on his dinner table: a three-week old so-called fresh fish, or a fish that was frozen and treated after three hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e613	It beats me when we're standing here on the floor in front of the president, that this is a classic Sunday morning meeting-north landing situation. Here we have all the ingredients. It's sea fleets versus coastal fleets, etc. Now also frozen fish versus fresh fish have emerged as a new element in the debate. I think we have to get past this. SV is not 'anti' oceangoing fishing fleet, but we think there must be clear limits to where the oceangoing is going. What we are critical of – and as it may well be that the representative Grimstad can agree – is the size limitation that has been on the coastal fleet, the increase that has been there. There's now a whole 500 cubic in cargo space volume, and it's been negative, because it's actually led several of the oceangoing boats to get into the coast as well. This has been a negative development for the exploitation of local species, etc. The basic principle of SV's policy is that we need to have the best possible bet on fresh fish, and then we have to set up the entire infrastructure after that. That's how we get the greatest values for society and the most value creation on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e618	I will continue a little bit in the same track, to the representative Knag Fylkesnes. Norway has a diverse and widely complex fishing fleet, a varied fishing fleet, coastal and sea fishing fleets. Not least, we have a sea fishing fleet that helps to assert our rights in international waters, which is important in terms of quota negotiations, etc., that we are engaged in. We are constantly seeing reports from Torgeir Knag County where he fences over the coastal fleet and in practice attacks the sea fishing fleet, for example. by talking down frozen raw material, which was a bit of the theme in the previous line. Then I should be specific and ask: What does Knag Fylkesnes think about frozen raw material delivered to Norwegian plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e623	It is obvious that much of the fishing has to go to the sea to get the values, because they are far out of the ocean. Then the products come back in frozen form. If we can build an industry in Norway that can accept the frozen products in Norway, and create values here, it is perfect, fantastic – I will support that. I'm not a militant opponent of the frozen. There is more to what really creates values along the coast, which this representative is busy with. What perhaps the representative of Farstad can agree with me is that the wind is not blowing the way of coastal fishing for the time being. The wind blows in different directions. These are the big boats that take over the fishing in Norway today, and the debates here in Stortinget have more of an impact on the interests of the large oceangoing vessels. The fact that there is then someone who speaks the coastal fleet and the coastal people's business is entirely in place in a coastal nation like Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e628	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e633	We live in a country with great opportunities. We have a well-functioning economy, we have a highly educated population, and we have great natural resources. Then we've known for a long time that we have a two-part division in the Norwegian economy, and it's made us vulnerable. And from the fact that all the arrows pointed upwards for very many years, over the last few years, we've had a negative development in parts of the economy. The most serious fall in oil prices in 30 years has shown us just how vulnerable we are. This has led to a faster conversion requirement than anyone could imagine. However, since accession, the government has been clear that increasing competitiveness for Norwegian business would be one of our main initiatives. And we already saw at the time of accession the need for more legs to stand on. The State budget also has a two-part facility for the following year. We continue with targeted measures to create activity in the regions and sectors most affected by the oil price drop. On the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, the 2016 package of measures is mainly proposed. The measures contained in this package shall ensure activity and jobs in the short term, while facilitating a long-term transition to the Norwegian economy. In the 2017 government budget, the government continues to give priority to measures to ensure work, activity and conversion. It is about creating a stable framework for business, improving competitiveness and contributing to a high level of transparency towards international markets. This priority is maintained and strengthened through the budgetary agreement with the Cooperation Parties to the Left and Christian People's Party. I travel a lot around the country visiting businesses, and there's the feedback very clearly: they want more of the policies we're running. They want more for transportation, they want lower taxes and taxes, more business simplifications and, more importantly, for research and innovation. There's not a cry for increased taxes out there. That is why we have a historic commitment to trade in next year's budget. We're lowering taxes on business, and not least we've increased the investment in research and innovation. Since the government took over in 2013, the funds for industrial research and innovation have increased by nearly 3 billion. kr, including the estimated tax deductions from the tax FUNN scheme and from the budget agreement with the cooperating parties. And we see that it works: the growth of business R & D is very high in 2015 – for the second consecutive year. The economy uses about 13 pst. more on own research and development carried out in 2015 than in 2014. Through the government's maritime strategy, we propose, through 69 measures, that several ships may have Norwegian flag. This is important for us to have a large Norwegian fleet in the future, and to ensure Norwegian jobs and our maritime competence. The subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers is the main instrument for maintaining maritime competence in Norway. In these days, the government also submits a legislative proposal to ensure that the scheme is passed on. We are also continuing to invest in green shipping in 2017. Both the Eco-Technology Scheme, the Condemnation and Innovation Facility contribute to more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly shipping and provide the industry with development opportunities and competitive advantages. Furthermore, we strengthen the government's investment in the marine industries by 25 million. kr. The government is also continuing to work on important business simplification and digitisation, and we are therefore proposing 172 million. kr to start up a new registry in Brønnøysund. In 2017, the government prioritises measures that provide the basis for more work and activity today and that will take Norway safely through the transitions we need to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e666	State ownership is important for the country's economy, but it is also important for the state budget we are now adopting parts of. We collect dividends from, among others. Telenors, which are significant and which come along well when the government is going to negotiate with eager partners. We know that there has been a difficult situation in Telenor, which must be handled by the company's bodies. I would like to ask the Council of State if it results in correctness, what has been said in the media, that the Council of State has been informed of that situation and has had an ongoing dialogue with the Chairman of the Board in recent times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e671	It is true that dividends are important to the government's budget, even though this government is making less profits than the red-green did in its last years. With regard to our dialogue with the companies, we have regular and regular dialogue with all the companies where we are on the owner's side. That dialogue is, of course, confidential, and it is important that it is. They should have confidence that we are professional owners, and all parties should have a dialogue that they know is not publicised. I've had dialogue with Telenor that I have with other companies. There we receive information, and we can ask questions. In general, we don't express opinions in the dialogue. We don't give advice, and we don't have opinions. If we have that, we're going to follow the ownership principles we have, and we're going to express it through the organs we're going to. In the case of Telenor, Telenor has a business meeting, a general meeting and a nomination committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e678	The media review of Telenor in the last few days makes it necessary that I also ask the Minister of Industry about it. The country’s ten principles of good ownership, set out in the 2013–2014 Communication of Ownership, states in principle 2: ‘There shall be transparency in the exercise of ownership by the State and in the activities of the company.’ And in principle 10: ‘The Company shall work intently to discharge its social responsibility.’ My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State feels that Telenor has lived up to these two principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e684	I record that the director of Telenor this weekend stated that the company is now in a very difficult situation. It's easy to agree. But I'm also very clear about the role we have between us as owners and the responsibilities of the board. The Board of Directors is responsible for this situation, not least for taking the decisions necessary for the company to move forward. Then we do our assessments of the board's work, but so we do it in the right forums, which in Telenor's case are the nomination committee, the business meeting and the general meeting. I trust that the board will take the situation seriously, and hope that they will now find work to make the decisions they will make.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e689	I would like to follow up on the Telenor theme. It is true that such a conversation and dialogue should be probable. At the same time, this is a listed company where equal treatment of shareholders is an important principle. Another important principle is that it is the Governing Board’s task to assign and, if necessary, set aside the group manager. In the light of that, I wonder if the Council of State can confirm that it has not had any dialogue with the Chairman of the Board of Directors about trust in the group leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e694	When I say that the owner dialogue should be confidential, I believe so. That means I'm not referring from that dialogue. But let me repeat what is our principle for our ownership dialogues with all companies: we receive information. It's the boards that decide what to inform, when to inform, and how much to inform us, in the same way that they inform other owners. That's how we receive information. We can ask questions about the matter, we can ask questions about the work of the board, but we do not express opinions, views and advice. In that case, we will do that to the bodies we are going to – it could be a business meeting, it could be a general meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e701	When it comes to the dialogue, it's probably. I think the Council of State should be open about this. Then my question is very direct: has the Council of State in any way expressed to the Chairman of the Board of Directors its view of the group head of Telenor?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e706	I intend to hold on to what a total mass has thought about this, that the owner dialogue should be confidential. I'm not going to go into the details of the dialogue. I can just repeat: we don't express our point of view, we don't give advice, we don't have opinions. We're receiving information, we're asking questions about that information, but if we have a point of view, we're doing it through the bodies we're going to in all the companies where the state is on the owner's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e711	I'm going to ask a question about something the Council of State certainly has an opinion on. Two years ago, the Council of State put forward a maritime strategy, and in its contribution now to the pulpit, the Council of State said that she would come to the Stortinget with a proposition on the legalization of the net pay system, as I interpreted it. Can the Council of State say how far you have come to deliver on the 69 measures that were in the maritime strategy, and when do you get this proposition to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e722	That proposition goes to the state council this week if everything goes according to plan, and it does hopefully. In the case of the 69 follow-up points, we had, the last time I checked, followed up about 65 of them, and the others were working. So we've been working on implementing all of those follow-up points. I understand today that the red-greens have got a new symbol case. In December 2016 ‘general public’ is the new case for the red-green. After eight years in government where no statutory net pay scheme, no strengthened scheme, no action on the rules of the field of traffic, public disclosure is now the answer to the challenges we have. That's where I think the red-greens are wrong. I think they knew that when they were in government, and I think they know that now. There are both legal and political reasons for not implementing such changes on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e729	Norwegian industry has sought a clearer strategy from the government in the industrial field and has been crying long after an overarching industrial policy. This is particularly true now, where so much is happening in the field of technology internationally, and when Norway is obviously unable to comply adequately with it. Many of the reasons why there is a passive state. My question is really about the industry message, which we expect will come just over New Year's or something like that. Then she will be treated beyond spring, before summer. Is it right that the roll-out of the policy – which comes into the industry message, and which the Stortinget will then agree with – will have real effect only in 2018, that is, after this ageing period, and that one has gone for four years without a new policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e736	I disagree with the premises. It hasn't been like we've been sitting passive and looking at business. We recently launched a bioeconomy strategy, we're working on a travel news, last year we put forward a maritime strategy, 100 million. NOK in addition to the SEK 1.9 billion. NOK we use on the net pay scheme. In a number of areas, the government has put forward strategies that we intend to follow up with concrete action. I don't know where the representative has his information. But already in the budget there is a proposal for a catapult scheme for Norwegian industry, an action in a strategy that has not yet been presented. We are impatient to implement policies. We've been doing that for three years, and we're going to do that in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e743	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e749	We are well on our way to new elections in Norway, and we have three years behind us. For some of us, it is actually the last budget debate we are going to take part in, and it must be allowed to make some overall thinking about it working, the policy that we have now been explained over three years would give more employment, more growth and better quality of life for most of us. It doesn't look good. If we look at the unemployment in Norway, as several speakers have said, we are facing a historically high unemployment rate of 135 000 people. We also know that much of what we don't like about employment and unemployment is getting stuck. I am aware that the government points to all sorts of factors other than its own to explain high unemployment rates, but three years into the period it must be allowed to ask: why are the results not coming? If you ask those who run out in business, there's not exactly any optimism to track either. On the news today early, we were presented with a study from ManpowerGroup that shows that Norway is really coming out very badly on the issue of pessimism among employers. Only 8 pst. Norwegian employers will employ people in the new year. We are far below both the United States and Sweden – which we often like to compare with – in terms of what we all want to mobilise, namely optimism among those who want to feed. That's where we're getting bad. I am surprised that the instruments chosen by the government do not actually create more optimism out there. It is said that there is no ‘suck’ or ‘call’ after tax cuts. No, I can see that. However, it must also be said that many of the instruments that have been used through taxes and, to some extent, through a levy – but significant tax relief – have not created the hurricane that might have been expected when we debated three years ago when a new government was set up. The third aspect that we're looking at, and when we adopt this budget, is that we've become more than ever dependent on oil money, despite the fact that the government, the right parties, signaled very strongly that one of the most important tasks was to reduce that dependence. So we put a record into the use of oil money, and I read – really to my dismay – that the Left is out in today's business after the budget conciliation and points out a lot of the same thing. It's kind of special. A fourth point – which is relevant to how people feel – is a report from Nav, the Nav report Poverty and Living Conditions in Norway 2016, which shows that differences in Norway are increasing. It's like some of the speakers have said before, that if we're going to be able to get up production, get up the growth, it's important that we keep reducing the differences among people. This is true in business, but it is also true in politics. It's important that we manage to create a society with less differences. For them under 30 years, it looks dark. They feel that it looks dark. They get out crooked in terms of distribution, and this is just one of the results of perhaps the most central tool the government has chosen, namely, significant tax relief for those who have a lot of money, and who favor them with capital. That's what the Nav survey reflects, and we see that the sustained low income in Norway over the last three years has grown from 7.7 pst. of the proportion up to 9 pst. This is no sustainable development. That is why I believe that the option presented by the Workers' Party is better on the issue of distribution, look at the tax profile, it is better on the issue of measures against the unemployed, but it is also better on reducing oil dependence. And I also believe that this will create more optimism than what we see out there with those who are currently feeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e762	Due to the high supply of fossil energy and thus lower oil and gas prices, the need for conversion to Norway was clarified and materialised more quickly than many dared to predict when we stood at the beginning of this collapse period. The importance of marine food in such a transformation economy was very much pointed out, but how quickly this industry was going to grow economically was probably harder to predict. The right has been aware that one of the most important tools for conversion is a business that masters research and development. And the seafood industry has responded to this challenge in every way. We promised growth-promoting taxes, and the industry said yes. Now we see actors from all walks of life using the SkattenFUNN, the User-Controlled Innovation Arena and our other research programmes. These tools are also used by businesses that will move from a lower-activity oil industry to a growing, innovative seafood industry. We see a flow of knowledge, capital and technology from the energy and maritime sectors to sea food. This is a joyful development and a good sign that our policy is working. Access to many and good markets is also important for success. For a country as dependent on exports as ours, most of the value chains start somewhere out there. In order to extend the national part of the value chain and increase our value creation, it is important that we start off in the market. Good market access to many markets makes us less vulnerable to changes outside and at home. I record that there are voices that attempt to place themselves in the category of nationalist, protectionist, populist and market-oriented. On behalf of the Norwegian maritime food industry in particular, but also the university sector, the research sector, the justice sector and the other sectors in general, I must be allowed to warn against such developments. Norwegian solitude, especially with such thin reasons as what we get in the daily debate, can never bring anything good with it. Today, Norwegian business needs more international cooperation, not less. In the last ten years, the aquaculture industry and, in particular, the salmon have been responsible for the increase in value in Norwegian exports, as well as now. But behind the Norwegian maritime food export forecasts of over 90 billion. In 2016, we can also read happy numbers for the whitefish sector. This too is due to good market work. The whitefish industry has learned a lot from aquaculture, and we see that today's results. The dry fish from Lofoten receive as the first Norwegian food product certification of origin and a special screening certificate. As champagne and cognac must be produced in their original districts, the dry fish from Lofoten must also be exactly that: it must be from Lofoten. The whitefish industry has understood that value creation begins in the markets. What will consumers in France have? What will consumers in Portugal have? And the most important thing: what will the young consumer, the next generation of French and Portuguese, have? It has been recognised by the whitefish industry and the products are now delivered. This has been done by the availability of research funding for product development. This has been done because we've put the boundaries of the industry so that it can develop itself. You stretch the national value chain, we increase the value creation in Norway. Climate is also an important part of the budget debate, and it is then a good thing to be able to mention the maritime food industry. So it's world-class food production with a climate impression so small, so wait and fluent that it's a good thing to discuss green shifts when you can represent the seafood industry. Then I hear some strange representations of the situation in Norwegian working life and Norwegian business from this pulpit. The red-greens created 330 000 jobs, two thirds of them in the private sector. Well, it's strange that the LO leader could say in 2013 that this development cannot continue, because all the growth in the private sector has gone to labour immigration – the labour force we've picked up. And now the statistics show that the labour force has moved out again. It was Swedish waiters, Polish carpenters and Yugoslav electricians. When it gets lower, when it gets lower, people move back if they just come here to work. We're going to be careful about lifting and yelling too many flakes and using flake-like phrases too much to describe what the situation is like. When I travel around, I meet a business that is forward-looking. I'm meeting a business that wants to research and develop, and I'm meeting a business that says yes, we've been oil marinated, but I guess we're going to take that place, hunting we're going to stand in front of the nation of Norway, and hunting we're going to stand in such a way that we have a sustainable welfare state in the future as well. That's what this is about. It's about people who put their work and savings into creating a job, creating a business, filling more of the common welfare fund we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e787	The government's draft budget for 2017 is about work, activity and conversion. Marine nutrition is a very important industry that contributes to jobs and activity along our long-distance coastline, and needs good framework conditions to grow. Leadingly sustainable growth in the fisheries and aquaculture industries strengthens our competitiveness and creates good jobs in the future, and we see that the demand for safe, good seafood is increasing. The government follows up the fisheries policy with a focus on measures that simplify, streamline and enhance innovation and conversion capabilities also in the maritime food industry. It provides the basis for profitable future-oriented jobs for future generations. Although demand is high, we also have significant ambitions for growth, and the government is very aware of the importance of focusing on the work on market access for Norwegian seafood. The right-hand party government is also committed to investing in the aquaculture industry in order to increase production in accordance with the production regulation regime to which the Stortinget joined in 2015. The new production regulation regime provides a strong incentive for aquaculture industries to develop and implement technologies that ensure that the environmental footprint is kept within acceptable limits below the agreed volume of production. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries signalled that they aim for the first capacity adjustment after the new system to take place in 2017. The industry, which currently has record earnings, cannot, unfortunately, be said to be problem-free. Escape and lice have our challenges over time. In particular, the lice problem has been demanding, and this is why the industry and the research community are working to develop measures to reduce the incidence of this fish parasite. There is every reason to believe that this will be resolved, but until then the regulations will still have to be strict in terms of the impact on our wild breeds and aure trunks, all of which are concerned about taking care of. Research for increased and more efficient and profitable use of marine resources in the bioeconomy has also been proposed in 2017. Norway has a tradition of being at the forefront when it comes to using bio-based resources, and the government's bio-economic strategy shows that it is still going to be invested. So the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have concluded a budgetary agreement where the introduction of equal CO 2 tax in the non-quota sector has been adopted in 2018. Fisheries and agriculture are currently excluded and a partisan-set selection is to be set up to assess the possibility of the gradual introduction of the CO 2 tax for these sectors and to propose other climate action. I am pleased to stress that this work is to be carried out with a view to achieving rural, agricultural and fisheries policy objectives. The landing regulations of 1 January 2015 shall be put into effect from 1 January 2017. A joint committee would call for the enforcement to be flexible and flexible, for businesses to be given sufficient time to get the necessary systems in place, and for solutions to be found which will also be acceptable to small businesses without too much red tape. This regulation has been adjusted 11 times in all, as far as I understand, in the light of dialogue with fishermen and reception, but still there are challenges, we are given a signal. Although the Minister for Fisheries will answer for himself, there has been a considerable effort to achieve the objective that the Committee has indicated of minimal additional work and bureaucracy. So some words about the seafarers I was lucky to meet this morning when I came to the Storting. Let me just make a statement immediately: the party of progress has ours and is the party of seafarers. Since Anders Lange's time during the meeting at Saga cinema where there were a lot of people in the hall who just came from our fleet. As a young man, I myself sailed in the merchant fleet, and there were Norwegian sailors on all the seas, and they were popular and well-known to be capable of working. It'll be a little artificial for me now that the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens give the impression of being concerned about the seafarers and will solve this through an outlay. The right-wing party government has done more for the Norwegian seafarers than it did for the previous eight years. They weakened the net pay scheme year after year by not regulating the ceiling of the scheme, so that it became less and less valuable. This led to Norwegian seafarers being replaced with cheap foreign crews. Some of the first thing this government did was raise the ceiling for net pay, just to counteract this negative trend. Going for a series of distribution proposals now, after the work of the Speed Committee has been completed and will be carried out, we fear in the Progress Party will lead to the postponement of this important work, and while the fleet is being lost for the Nordics and women. We in the Progress Party want a fully-fledged net pay system. The Progress Party will legislate fully-fledged net pay arrangements based on the arrangements of our neighbouring countries – for example, as it has been called, the Danish model – and will be the best solution to secure the jobs on board and ensure that proud Northmen and Women continue to have their work at sea in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e827	The numbers' speech is ready. There are hardly any new jobs created in the private sector under this government. After three years, we can state that this government is failing with the most important thing: work for everyone. This government went to the choice of action, but there is just action this government lacks. Instead, they must use their forces to keep the flock together. The inaction of the government creates insecurity. They have left the active business policy of the Stoltenberg government, and in my view the government has used every opportunity to empty the toolbox. In its comments, the Right Party and the Progressive Party state correctly that their definition of an active industrial policy is general instruments, as well as tax and tax cuts. During the debate on the top industrial centre last week, the representative Gundersen strongly stated that we need more of the same in order to succeed. It must be allowed to ask: when is this policy to begin to work? How long are we going to have a high level of unemployment and almost no job growth before the representatives from the Right and the government will admit that they are wrong? The numbers speak for themselves. Policies don't work. A number of experts have – as we have heard earlier here – warned against this, and now the results show that they got it right. Not only does it not work, but the 21 billion. Tax relief granted by this government, mostly to the richest, means that differences are increasing, and we are getting less for well-being and Community solutions. So we're not rigging for the future. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is no. 1st@item: inlistbox We want security in work and for work. Then, in the view of the Labour Party, we must have an active industrial policy. As a small country, we must give priority to where we should bet, and as a long-term country, we must ensure that there is growth throughout the country. That is why we have allocated 1 billion in our budgets. This is why we have strengthened the Eco-Technology Scheme by 1 million. kr, therefore, we focus on increasing value creation in marine industry and the bioeconomy, and we focus on mineral industry, tourism, more clusters and top industrial centres. We are facilitating new businesses that will grow through the accelerator program. Where we are betting, this government is building down. It builds up district-oriented instruments, slows down specific programmes and sets of general instruments. But the priority is in any case. If the Minister of Industry does not want to, if the Storting does not want to through the budget, then there is a priority. The difference is that it happens in bureaucracy. It is particularly important to note that Innovation Norway has spent the whole year arguing that Norway needs to pool the forces and bet in specific areas. In the evening post on 24 October, Anita Krohn Traaseth writes: ‘A small economy like Norway cannot invest as much in everything. Therefore, more of the efforts need to be directed towards areas where the world’s challenges cross Norwegian competence.’ Is this not exactly the job of the Minister of Industry – to give priority to where we should focus our efforts? Tax havens are the main industrial policy project of this government, with one exception. There is one group that is constantly getting tax incentives: those that are going to produce safe and safe food for us in the future – agriculture. Every year there's something new. In the past, this government has proposed increased taxes on the sale of farm use within the family, which would make the generational shift considerably more expensive. This year the proposal for a tax on investment funds under the BU scheme came, a scheme that will reduce profitability especially in rural agriculture. Fortunately, the support parties have stopped several of these proposals in Stortinget. Finally, the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen said that all the growth in employment came with immigrants under our government, and that they have now moved back. But the numbers of leave have to speak for themselves. Those who are here are at least free.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e856	The sea has always been an important resource for Norway, both throughout history and today, and the future will show that the sea will have an even greater impact on Norway. We're already good at sea, but we're going to get better – and we're going to develop an even stronger cluster of oceans. Norway has a strong global position in all major maritime industries, such as oil and gas, shipping, fisheries and aquaculture. In several of these areas, Norway is in fact the world leader in technology and competence. We have a good starting point to be in the driver's seat in the further development of these industries. That is why we have decided to launch a work on a sea strategy to be presented in 2017. We are already seeing initiatives to transfer knowledge and technology from the offshore industry and maritime industry to the aquaculture industry. This is important for the further development of the aquaculture industry, but also for the maintenance of competence. And not least – which many have been concerned about so far – it is important for future employment and migration. This government has always been concerned that Norway should have more legs to stand on next to oil and gas. In the last two years, falling oil prices and increasing unemployment have been a strong reminder of this. However, I would be allowed to say that in 14 out of 19 states it has been a long time since unemployment has been so low, especially in North Norway. At a time when the rest of the business is undergoing a change, the marine food industry goes down. This year, when we talk about value, a new record will be set in the export of fish and fish products – maybe we will pass 90 billion. kr. I should like to say that the government or the undersigned takes credit for this. When the government and the undersigned get criticism of everything that's wrong, you might also have the credit for everything that's good. But I don't, because the reason for this is not just currency and what goes on competition. It's because we've built skills and we're good at fish for decades. Seafood can be described as an adventure today. Everyone can agree with that. And the industry has a potential to get significantly bigger, but there are some challenges. To do this, we need to be on the knowledge front. In the 2017 government budget, the government proposes to increase the funding for marine research by 62.5 million. kr. In the budget agreement, this has increased considerably. Thus, marine research has increased by 370 million. kr since the government joined in 2013. Norway has good access to renewable biological resources, both at sea and on land. We can use the resources we have in a much better way, but it's also a great potential for new species. The government therefore proposes a 50 million bet. kr to the bioeconomy through the Norwegian Research Council. This can contribute to significantly greater industrial development. In the budget agreement, this is supplemented by 50 million. kr. Last year, the government proposed a new growth regime in the aquaculture industry. This shall be governed by rules of action based on environmental factors within geographically defined production areas. The purpose of this is for them to act as geographical units for the regulation of production capacity at permit level. I have proposed that the coast be divided into 13 such areas. Leaktus is what we're supposed to be dealing with. In the draft budget, the Directorate-General for Fisheries has increased by 12.5 million. kr. I am happy to be able to implement the new regime and the supervision of this. The budget agreement strengthens the commitment to sustainable aquaculture by a further 5 million. kr. The new regime gives the aquaculture industry strong incentives to develop and implement new technologies and new forms of operation. I'm optimistic and positive about what's happening. The objective is for the first capacity adjustment to be made in 2017. Hopefully, the new Maritime Fund will create new revenues for the municipalities, which are very important in this way. The government’s 2017 priority is work, activity and migration measures. Marine nutrition has a key role to play in the transition we are now undergoing, and the draft budget facilitates further growth in industry through research and strengthening supervision in order to ensure sustainability. In both of these areas, the budget is strengthened by the budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e891	‘To create uncertainty about the EEA Agreement as the Progress Party does in the work on a new batch programme is simply frightening’, says Kjell Ingebrichtsen on behalf of the Maritime Authority. One thing would have been that the Council of State Sandberg, who has warned its EEA resistance, had not understood the consequences of cancelling the EEA Agreement, but the Council of State wrote in a letter of reply to the signature that if Norway leaves the EEA, goods from Norway will be treated as imports from so-called third countries. Norwegian seafood will include: be subject to the veterinary requirements of the EEA and to full border controls — in addition to a deterioration in competitiveness, as a result of the abolition of customs exemptions. Norway loses customs exemption for most white fish products to the EU. The Council of State is therefore going in with an open eye to weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian maritime food. Is the Council of State comfortable creating a worsening competitiveness for the industry he is seen to be suited to?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e900	The condition for this question is incorrect. Governments stand loyally behind the government statement. The results will show up – and they will show up. We have better results by negotiating with the EU than we have ever had. This Minister for Fisheries is running 100 pst. in respect of what is contained in the Government Declaration. I understand that the Workers' Party and the representative Heggø are not able to sort government participation from the party – I understand that well – but I record that the stakeholder organisations, like the Fiskarlag, such as Sjömat Norway, are able to distinguish between the hats. I run the program process in the game. It is very interesting that the representative Heggo wants to throw me as a fisheries minister because I am an EEA opponent. I think it is more serious that the Workers' Party will now exclude 50 pst. by the Norwegian people from participating in government cooperation because they are skeptical into the EEA. It is a serious attack on democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e907	The Minister of Fisheries Party has announced the fight against bureaucracy. In this area, we must be able to state that the government is not doing it entirely. The bureaucracy is growing under this government, contrary to what was to happen. In the opposition, the Progress Party promoted proposals for budget cuts, including: The Fisheries Directorate, where they thought there were great opportunities for efficiency improvement and tighter priorities. In the position, it is precisely the Progress Party that proposes to grant more to the operation of the Directorate of Fisheries, but in the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, there was agreement to cut these operating costs. Can the Council explain this reversal? Is he satisfied with the results so far in the alerted fight against bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e914	If the representative Botten had checked it out – they have also been cut in the Fisheries Directorate. But I think that is interesting, because I listened to the main contribution from the representative Botten earlier today, where it was said that the Workers' Party under Stoltenberg II provided 360 000 jobs – two thirds in the private sector and one third in the public sector. This means that Stoltenberg II was hired 120,000 in the public sector over its period. So Botten said that this government had provided 32 000 jobs, two-thirds of which were in the public sector. This means that this government has increased the number of employees in the government sector by 20 000, while Stoltenberg II increased the number of employees in the government sector by 120000. There's a significant difference. I think we also have to see this in a larger context. This government has got huge tasks, especially in aquaculture, where we have a potential to grow five times. It is then natural that we also get more control over, through the Directorate of Fisheries, the Food and Veterinary Administration and the Veterinary Institute. I hope – and believe – that the Workers' Party agrees when we grow in the way we should.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e923	One of the Christmas greetings given to the Business Committee points out that 2017 could be a record year for fishing. We're going to listen to the industry, but what we know is that it was record year in 2014 and 2015, and the Council of State said that we might also set new records in 2016 in terms of fish exports, measured in value. We know that the industry is very busy getting more market share. If we put the government platform at the bottom, my question to the government council is now at the bottom of a year and – I hope – with a new, good year ahead for all of us: What concrete action will the government council take to increase Norwegian market share, so that the record year leads to a lot of fish on Norwegian plates and also much more exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e931	I think that's a very good question. This government is not just working to strengthen our market shares and our position within the EU; we are, of course, working in parallel in significant areas to enter other markets. Among other things, India is a big market that we want to get into, but there we have some challenges, because it's the EFTA we're negotiating from. As one EFTA Member State, it may be a challenge for Norway to get on with it, but we have been working on this for a long time. We also work with significant markets beyond this in order to obtain markets in addition to the EU. We must realise that once the EU has now reached a free trade agreement with Canada, among other things, where Canada can export freely to the EU, it will be a challenge for Norwegian maritime food exports. TTIP is currently set aside, but could be a challenge for Norwegian maritime food exports. That's why it's important to also look for other markets to sell this amazing quality seafood we have. Then it's a little interesting when the Workers' Party is also very concerned with my position as Vice-President, because if we're going to negotiate this outside the EU, we must at least be allowed to... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e936	The recommendation to the Minister for Fisheries may be that he is the Minister for Bureaucratisation of the times. The proposal for the introduction of the obligation to keep records in accordance with the landing regulations meets massive resistance. The Minister for Fisheries defends himself that this could have been so much worse. But there has been a thick guide to this reporting obligation, which is due to be introduced from 1 January. It says: ‘Journals shall be provided as a separate integral part of the production management and logistics system of the recipient.’» It is also said that the company should be able to retrieve information from the other information systems of the enterprise. This is a reality in which many fishing companies and fisheries recipients in the country do not recognize themselves. We are now writing on 13 December, this will come into force on 1 January. My question is: does the Council of State seem to have enough time to adapt? Would he like to take the initiative in postponing the regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e948	The reason I pointed out that it could be worse is that the red-greens sent out a regulation that would have become a disaster for the industry. It was a regulation that was actually rejected because it would create a disaster for the industry. It was so complicated and wanted to have such a control regime that the reception had almost stopped. Since I became a fisheries minister, I have had several rounds of industry, directorate and department to simplify. I have made 11–12 adjustments. Last Tuesday last week, my department and I had a meeting with the industry, where we made four very small adjustments, among other things. adjusted for 2 million. NOK 5 million. kr. I have also said that when this is to be implemented from 1 January next year, it is not that everything should be implemented immediately. You have to have a moving transition, and I've told those who are going to control this. I have taken this seriously and have adjusted it all the way to the industry's concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e955	After the annual budgetary negotiations with the cooperation parties, we have had less of a resource research every year than my and the Left's ambitions have been. The government parties have simply not been as ambitious as us. But after the budget negotiations, we have at least put in place a greater effort than the government originally put forward. So we've got something similar to an offensive bet in this area. Also in the 2017 budget there have been additions, but once again it is the Left and Christian People's Party that has fought this addition. The question is: why does the Minister for Fisheries and the Government not use the opportunity to be genuinely offensive in terms of resource research?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e964	Let me immediately say that I'm very pleased that we have a Christian People's Party and the Left on the Stortinget that gives me assistance and security so that we get increased resources for resource research. I can say as much as that when I sit in various government conferences and in government budget conferences, I work hecticly to get more resources in place for resource research, because that is absolutely necessary. I think the results that the government has now achieved together with the Left and Christian People's Party in general in terms of research, and especially in terms of resource research, are good. We could probably get even more in place, because I see that there is a huge potential connected to the bioeconomy strategy. Not least with regard to the marine strategy we are going to have next year, it is important that we have considerable expertise both in resources that exist today and in finding new resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e969	It was now very appropriate that a fisherman could take a line on the Minister for Fisheries – that is the way it should be. The Minister of Fisheries is in the right boat and has the right wording when he talks about the large increase in the value creation and export of seafood. That's one record after another. The Minister of Fisheries may have to share it with others, including me. When we get to land by loaded boat, the young people who want to go out into the industry, on the deck and on the dock. They know that for a small quota on a small boat of approx. Ten meters, it's $2.50. kr, which costs between 2 and 3 million. NOK for the boat. Then I say, can't you just start like fishermen, you want to do that? How are we going to make it financially? The question to the Minister for Fisheries is: What does he intend to do to make young people not just count money – count billions? We have to count the young people we get into -- to get into -- into the industry. What will the Minister for Fisheries do to get it done?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e980	Now, the Stortinget has just asked me to investigate or present a strategy for recruiting more young people into fishing. That's what I'm going to do in terms of how to recruit. But I also see, through my extensive travel activity as a fisheries minister this year, that there are positive signals out there. There is an increasing number of fishermen in Finnmark, among other things, not much, but we see some signs. And we have a number of measures today that are recruiting young people, we have recruitment quotas, we have it in school, we have it in a number of areas. All these areas can certainly be strengthened. But now I will also present a strategy on whether there are new grips, including: whether you can recruit young people for winter fishing. I see that someone has concluded that Stortinget has said that it should be done now, but my message from Stortinget is to investigate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e985	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e990	First, a message to the government party: the policy they are running is almost not creating new jobs. Talking is time-consuming. Then it doesn't help to continue with the same medicine, in larger doses. Norway is a sea country. It is important to ensure good knowledge of the sea in order to be able to absorb more and increase value creation based on the sea. I am therefore very pleased that the Storting has given the government of Marsjordre to invest more in stock and resource exploration. Fortunately, through the budgetary agreement, this was increased by 2 million. kr extra, while the Working Party has 10 million. additional to this work in its alternative budget. In this way, the REDUS project of the Marine Research Institute, which uses data collected by the industry itself, is an important project. A required collaboration to get in place, but it will be useful for everyone if it succeeds. Researchers, fishermen and politicians all have an interest in a better management tool and secure stockpiles at all stages. If we're going to be able to fall off the blue field for generations to come, we need a research-based green management policy. When it comes to the question of free research, which is particularly important, I am pleased that the conflict between the researchers and the Minister for Fisheries now appears to be shattered. It is also important to invest in new technologies. Our two most important industries, oil and gas and seafood, must work together if the green shift is to succeed, and we can learn from each other. Offshore activities include: are the very best in the class on the development of new technological solutions. In this context, I would like to mention that the first asteroid has all come, that the Storting has asked for a quota bonus for the asteroid. The landing order has been extensively mentioned in this fall. It seems very bureaucratic, and I am pleased that a joint committee is in favour of a healthy peasantry being used in its enforcement. It is important to demonstrate flexibility and good judgment and also to try to find good solutions for smaller businesses. Simplification may be a keyword to include it here. I would also like to be close to the Maritime Fund, which would ensure long-term and sustainable income for the municipalities. The main challenge here is that almost no funds were brought into the fund. Fortunately, the Minister made sense at the annual meeting of the Network of fjord and coastal municipalities of the NFKK and agreed with the Labour Party that it was the time of payment that was decisive. We also have a cross-political agreement to see more about the Maritime Fund tomorrow. The climate crisis is a fact, but the introduction of a CO2 tax on fishing boats can quickly become a symbolism policy, at worst with the opposite effect, such as delivery elsewhere, longer sailing time and more emissions. I have more faith in an environmental fund based on the model of the NO x fund. There is cross-political consensus about ensuring quality in all terms, but we need to find good tools that can guarantee this. It is a challenge for the entire seafood industry when quality is not as expected in the market. Norwegian fish is our main export product, and it is a sought-after product, especially in Europe, our largest market. Great was the wonder when the Minister for Fisheries flagged his view of the EEA. I am willing to fight for the EEA Agreement ‘to the bitter end’, which it is called in new Norwegian. He secures the competitiveness of the seafood industry, he wants to give us market access, we drop border control on the fish, and we get access to the ports. Here I stand on the Right in government. The resource interest rate will also be discussed. Here's the working party's basic vision as before. Employment and value creation around the coast are the best resource rate. Then, of course, we'll see what the Eiden committee will do tomorrow. I'm excited about what the selection suggests for the distribution of resource interest rates, and whoever pays how much, or whether value creation and employment on the coast are still superior. Storting gets big and important things to handle this spring. Even if the Workers' Party wants to seek a broad term to give the industry good, long term terms, I'm not in doubt. Fisheries policy is managed both on a safest and best course if a government with the main color red is left at the helm.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1016	The budget we are adopting today is a good budget. It is a budget for more jobs, more foundations and more competitiveness. The right has always given priority to research, transport, innovation and competitiveness, and we are well pleased with the budgetary agreement we have had with the other cooperation parties. The government has used targeted measures to create a stable business environment. The initiative on founders also gives good results. Never before have we registered so many new establishments. The SSB report Innovation and value creation effects of selected industrial policy instruments, from April 2016, show that government policy is working. We've got more entrepreneurs, we've got more new jobs, and we've got more value creation. In the maritime industry, the government’s maritime strategy was well received, and in the 2017 budget, the wreckage mechanism is being continued, but the scheme should also be evaluated and further developed. The measure for more goods from land to sea is worth more than 50 million. kr. In the budgetary remarks, the Labour Party criticises this measure because it is too small and too late, but it is well-known empty rhetoric from the Labour Party. In fact, what we adopt today is far more ambitious than what the Labour Party proposes in its alternative budget. In addition, the government has got the system approved by ESA, which the previous government did not get. The budget will also give us a competitive advantage in the development of green shipping, with a significant strengthening of environmental technology systems and Enova. The cooperation party is also some of the people who want to develop a strategy for developing and commercialising liquid wind turbines, which can help electrify more on a Norwegian base. The Labour Party and other parties have previously taken the view that the government has to outlaw the competition conditions on Norwegian pedestal. The background was that several thought Statoil was too large, one-off, and dominant. I think that it is so important that the good work is done to get more activity on the Norwegian base, so that several Norwegian players can grow and at the same time make Norwegian socket more attractive to several foreign companies, and thus get more competition and greater shortages on Norwegian base. It is good to register today that the government has announced 87 new search areas on the Norwegian base. This is very pleasing, but if we are to achieve our goals, the costs on the Norwegian base must also be reduced. So today, the Labour Party is taking the order that the government should outsource the possibility to impose Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters, also on Norwegian soil. It is worth noting that the Stoltenberg II government did not complete such an arrangement when they were in government. That's a lot of good reasons for that. Publicising Norwegian tariffs will increase the cost of Norwegian competitive business. It would also put Norway in a strange smile internationally if we were to do this. We're a small country, but we're a big maritime nation, and we're totally dependent on transporting other nations' goods, and we're totally dependent on access to other countries' ports. Protectionism isn't at all what we're excited about. A fundamental principle in the law of the sea is that the flag of a ship determines the jurisdiction to which the ship is subject. Consider whether all countries should generalise their pay and working conditions. It is not realistic, nor is it possible to implement a ship like this. Visiting seven different countries in seven days, seven different nations shall deal with their wage and working conditions. Seafarers’ organisations have been given the theme and one of the conclusions is that such an action will be a very unusual step for a European country. Several also claim that the generalisation of tariffs would be problematic in view of the EEA Agreement. The right has threatened the Norwegian sailor, and the Right believes that the incendiary arrangement for the employment of seafarers is the most important instrument for maintaining Norwegian maritime competence on Norwegian ships. The government has significantly strengthened and simplified the backlog since it stood still under the previous government. The Government has removed the maximum disbursement limit for Norwegian coastal ships, fast route and international ferries in NOR, Norwegian Ordinary Skips Registry. Access to the bottom-up system of NIS, the Norwegian International Ship Register, has been facilitated and a specific arrangement has been established for NIS design ships. In sum, the government delivers good maritime policy, while the Labour Party is at the disposal stage. They didn't deliver into government, and now they mean that the time is ripe to figure out a completely unrealistic solution, which didn't happen in practice. Even in a line change earlier today, the Labour Party was willing to discuss the negative aspects of such a generalisation in practice. For me, this is only good election campaign rhetoric from the Workers' Party – in a familiar style.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1050	Let me start with a brief remark to the representative Trellevik, who is concerned with the fantastic incentive scheme to get more goods from road to sea, where the government managed to get in place 30 million. kr in 2017 – a scheme that has also been criticised by industry because it has the wrong device and does not target the product owners. Well, the Workers' Party held 3 billion. available during the period in the national transport plan. That's a completely different sum than the poor 30 million. this government received until the last year of the period. Norway — and the rest of the world — are facing a fundamental shift, often formulated as the fourth industrial revolution. Digitalisation is now addressing all sectors and changing the way we interact, the way we create values, and it creates many new opportunities and many challenges. Norway is relatively well equipped to meet these challenges and these changes. We have a highly educated population, relatively well-developed infrastructure, and we are using new technology early on. My great concern, however, is that we underestimate the significance and consequences of the upheaval. The prerequisite for a successful transition is that we can get ahead of ourselves, that we can prepare for what's going on, and that we can take control of the development and social consequences and not just passively wait until we get them caught. This concern has not diminished during the harvest. Last month, the UK Government’s Digital Agenda for Norway – ICT for a simpler everyday life and increased productivity. It is full of beautiful objectives on how we can use digitisation as a tool to further develop the public sector and strengthen innovation as part of the public sector. The problem is that the government does not follow up on its own ambitions. It's both disappointing and cause for concern. Let me take three examples only from this harvest and from my own county: The Klara Clock Health Information Service provides quality information and guidance to young people. The themes are body and health, emotions, intoxication and sexuality – regardless of who you are, and where you live, because Klara Klock has been digital from the beginning of 16 years ago. The municipality of Nordland and the municipality of Bodø took responsibility for starting a service that later became national and has answered hundreds of thousands of questions. In 2014, there were 54,000 questions on their own. The government is now proposing to close the service to build up a new digital prevention service for young people. As I understand it, this offer is to be placed in Oslo. Why is there no reason for this? It cannot be economic, as wages are higher here, the employer's fee is higher, and the office rent is higher. Competence cannot be the basis, for over 16 years an environment is built that has good competence on this service. The impact of the Decision is further centralisation and reduction of the potential for digitisation. The second example is Altinn. The State budget refers to Altin as the engine for the digitisation and efficiency of the public sector, and thus also to better services and reduced costs for business and citizens. Therefore, work on improving Altin is described and the digital service provision from the public sector is to be continued and further developed. Several services shall be provided, and efforts shall be made to make them available on different digital platforms such as tablet boards, smartphones and through direct integration with the business sector’s own ICT systems. But it's not related to what the government is doing. When we read the statements of the director of the Altinn in the media, a warning is issued. He can't get into the priority. In the long term, this will have consequences for safety — not acutely, but it is approaching such a situation. But what's even more serious is that now public users and business users are starting to build up their own services because Altin is unable to deliver what they need. Obviously, the government has not understood what is needed to ensure that Altin can still perform its important function as an engine in digitisation, as the government itself describes it. Thirdly, the opportunities for innovation and public acquisition through digital solutions and Norwegian business are central to the government’s communication on a digital agenda for Norway. But that's not what you do in practice. No one is asking for special treatment or subsidisation of Norwegian holdings. The arrangements to be made shall take place within the framework of the competition rules. When Health Mid-Norway this year made a huge bid of 2.7 billion. For a new patient journal system that integrates the offer between the hospital, home care and the doctor, criteria were chosen to prevent even the largest Norwegian suppliers from being able to reach – excluding them. It is not to facilitate the use of public procurement as an incentive for innovation and a shift. The government decorates itself with beautiful words and rhetoric, but digitalization opportunities do not appear to be able to seize.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1076	Through the draft budget from the government and the budgetary agreement, we follow two main strategies: we manage both the short-term situation in the labour market and we manage the necessary transition for Norway. This means that we use the public sector to have a rapid impact on the labour market and solve tasks that have been neglected in the past. We've been using our space of action in the economy to help give growth incentives rather than saving our money in foreign companies, we're using the tax system to make people choose to invest in Norwegian jobs even in the future, and we're measuring industrial policy in value creation rather than, like SV, in budget bills. Because that's value creation we to the seventh and last live of. Few areas show this better than the agricultural area. In Norwegian agriculture, there are basically very positive trends. The trend in income in the period 2014-2017 was projected to be 18 3/4 pst at the conclusion of the agricultural negotiations this year. – 6 pst. per year, more than twice as much as other groups. So far, figures from 2015 show that income trends in agriculture alone in 2015 were 13 pst. It seems, when one dares to think new, and so does this government. For this reason, the willingness to produce and invest in Norwegian agriculture is great, so we have higher output in many sectors of agriculture than we had before, thereby increasing Norwegian food shortages. The area reduction has been flattened and decreased – with a lower decline in area than under the previous government. The grain area has stabilised. Feed imports have been reduced. The use of antibiotics in Norwegian livestock production is still a record low. The reduction in the number of use is less than under the previous government, and the reduction in the number of annual agricultural work is less than under the previous government. The number of bankruptcies is high. This is the situation where one is willing to carry out both necessary reforms and to ensure that one has many on the team. This means that you have good crops, which come from good weather. One has been given to farmers who have invested in innovation, investment and technology, because it provides profitability. We've been betting that it actually pays more than before to produce two quarts of milk – twice as much as to produce one quart of milk. It makes people want to produce two liters instead of one liter. So the total food production goes up. Norwegian agriculture needs more modernisation, not less. The debate on agricultural policy is often marked by a discussion of the extent to which one should make necessary adjustments in agriculture, as all other sectors around agriculture always do, or to what extent one should stand still. But it's not primarily the farmers who are afraid of change. These are trade unions, the Central Party and other actors in the political environment. But it does seem in practice. That's what's happy. This means that, in the future, we will be able to build on an agriculture based on increasing Norwegian production. This means that we can build on an agriculture that wants to take its market opportunities, and that means that we get an agriculture that will be able to compete in the future to a greater extent than today. This budgetary agreement ensures both that and new investment in important areas. Bi-economics have been mentioned earlier today, new opportunities for Norwegian industry, both in the agricultural sector and in the seas, which has also been strengthened by the budgetary agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party. The effort on forest infrastructure is very important, the effort on timber brands is double during this government period, and the effort on timber roads has increased by 80 pst. In addition, the commitment will follow from the budget agreement. So targeted bets that give added profitability, are decisive both in the forest and in agriculture. This government has arranged for this, both in the state budget that we are currently dealing with, and in the past year, and we are going to keep the fruits of it for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1089	It's going to be line change. As I was in my post, this government swears to tax cuts, but an industry that has been subject to constant proposals for tax tightening is agriculture. The government has done this despite the fact that they promised before the elections that they would have targeted tax relief here. But the opposite has happened: this government has made proposals to target tax incentives against agriculture, but many of them are fortunately voted down here in the Grand Duchy. This applies both to the proposal that came last year, to tax the sale of property within the family, and to the one that came this year, to remove the tax exemption for BU grants in district-based instruments. The peasant team has called this the ‘tax flow of the government’. Is it so that the government thinks what they call dynamic tax cuts works for other companies, but not for agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1100	It is a great pleasure to discuss fiscal policy with the Labour Party in Stortinget and on the right that they believe that the tax bill is too low. It is not entirely related to the fiscal policy we have seen in the last few years of the Labour Party, which only proposes in 2017 to increase taxes by over 10 billion. for all Norwegian industry and for all Norwegian wage earners. That would have been a dramatic change in fiscal policy. This government has not proposed, on the contrary: I want to make sure that agriculture is also benefited, for example. reduced corporate and personal taxes. Then we have had other suggestions on hearing, for example. on changes in the agricultural deduction, which could have given new tax incentives to agriculture, but whether it has itself said through the listening rounds that they do not want it. And the government has put it away. It may be okay when you're tall and dark, that you also think that a person might face himself in the door relatively violently.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1105	What was my question was whether there was a difference between agriculture and other businesses when it came to the dynamic tax policy, and we have seen that it has been. Another good example of the government's total lack of an active industrial policy is that they will liquidate the three-based innovation programme. This is a targeted program that's just heading towards an area where we're going to bet: the forest. The programme has also produced good results, which the government itself describes both in the budget and in the forest communication that the Committee is now examining. It is therefore incomprehensible that this programme should be terminated, and once again the programme has been saved here in Stortinget. Why has the government resorted to such a passive line of business policy? And why are you cutting into instruments that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1114	No, agriculture too benefits from the government's tax policy, for example. by reducing corporate and personal taxes. It is obvious that it also works for agriculture. So it gets flat for me when the Labour Party criticises the bet we've had on forest, with a double the high bet on lumber brands and with an 80 pst. increase in forest highways. In addition, the steps that are now being taken in the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party will be taken. It's about something as fundamental as that the most important way we can get profitability in the forest industry is to make sure that some tall forest in Norway. All the basis for an effective value chain starts at the primary level, and that's what we've made sure. We have turned the money in the direction of increased infrastructure for the forest industry, because we think it is most important, and because the forest industry has always pointed out that it is most important. So I'm going to accept that the Stortinget allows money for a tree-based innovation program right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1121	Just a little comment on the previous line exchange: I think it's right to say that there are not many of the tax aggressors that the government has presented that have been reversed. Everyone in agriculture has been reversed, so there is no doubt about it. We have a general goal of increasing food production in Norway. Then we have to use our resources, and we have to have agriculture all over the country. In the agricultural notification delivered by the Council of State on Friday, the government is going to go in to reduce production regions to ten. But the Council of State also said, if I have a proper draft from the press conference, that geographical production should have been spread. It's important keywords that I don't see much else. Can the Council of State elaborate it in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1128	I would like to see Mr Hemdal read even more in the agricultural report, because it contains many rural policy measures in the field of agriculture. The most important discussion is the discussion of where to produce cereals and greenery, versus where to lay grass. There we took hold of this year's agricultural agreement, and I am notifying the continuation of it. At the same time, it is obvious that a shift in grazing effort towards giving priority to the land is giving priority to the important rural areas, which means that we have an agricultural policy across the country. The third point concerns quota regions. I think it makes sense to have some greater flexibility in the quota regions, but arranged in a way that doesn't mean we're moving large parts of our milk production to the flatlands, to the cereals, to the best agricultural areas, because we have to produce the basic values that we can, on the best soil: cereals and vegetables. I intend to make new proposals on this, including in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1135	One of the governments' glan numbers in agricultural policy has been about simplifying. Long point lists of simplification measures have been presented. In his speech, the Council of State said that he was busy that the policy was working in practice. Then I will challenge: With the simplification measures that have been implemented up until now, has a common farmer saved more or less than 30 minutes in paperwork and bureaucracy? And then I don't mean 30 minutes a day, I don't mean 30 minutes a week, I don't mean 30 minutes a month, but I mean, has a farmer saved more or less than 30 minutes a year on those simplification measures? And before the Council of State sweeps this away and says that there is no overview here: if we ask the Minister of Industry this question, in her field, we get a shiny clear answer. To date, I have not received a clear answer from the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1140	Nor will the representative get it now, because this simplification measure is not actually measuring everything that could be thought of, and all that could be thought of in agriculture. We're measuring the important parameters, and we're measuring production, which the Storting has defined as a clear measure. We measure income, which shows that we have an income development in agriculture now that is significantly better in this government period than it was in the previous government period. So we're measuring the important things. So we're going to measure the area, we're going to measure the number of gardeners, we're going to measure the profitability. So I also think that what I have proposed in the agricultural report is that there should be scope for new simplifications for both sides of the agricultural agreement, and this should be done in a way that saves the authorities for working time and gets less form fields, but also in a way that helps to reduce the burden on agriculture. So I think it's well taken care of in the new message, and I expect it will be joined by the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1145	As I was in the main post, it is important to me that the ecological effort at Tingvoll that we agreed on last year is continued. The work done on the environment at Tingvoll at NORSØK and NIBIO is absolutely central to achieving the objectives that we have set ourselves in ecology. I expect it to involve research and development at NORSØK in the years to come, as was the intention of the budget agreement last year. Can the Minister of Agriculture confirm that this will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1151	Yeah, that's the answer. This is also the case, for example. moving to a separate chapter post, so in case someone should sleep an hour, both I and the representative Farstad can make sure that we can actually follow this up in the coming years. This is also one of the things – I think I can add – that the representative of Farstad can feel secure when he cooperates with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1156	I am always so happy when I hear representatives of the Progress Party talk so much about action against Norwegian agriculture. I remember the alternative budgets. We wouldn't be able to talk about a lot of profitability in agriculture if we were to halve the transfers over the farm. I hear the Council of State is talking about an increase in revenue. What is a worrying feature of income estimates for Norwegian agriculture must be the increase in income differences. Small and medium-sized ones serve less, while the large ones serve more. The working party is concerned about that, mainly because if we're going to be able to maintain and increase food production all over the country, we're dependent on using the available area we have. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he is concerned that an increased income gap in agriculture will help to ensure that more land that is not propelled by the large ones will go out in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1165	Not based on measurements in a single year, but if we see a lasting trend that wages are significantly weakened among a good part of our producers for the benefit of a few large ones, I would also be concerned about it. We don't see that yet. That's why I think we should measure it over some time. I still mean – and I wonder that the Labour Party does not show that they are more concerned about it through the deliberations and debates we have had around this – that if we are to have more collective food production, there must be production stimulation. It's worth stretching a little bit longer to produce a little more on the resources you have available. If we gather to that, we'll increase the possibilities for Norwegian agriculture. But then we have to have a support structure and a structure through the agricultural agreement that actually stimulates it. So we actually need the state to take care of the role of leading goals and possibilities to achieve the goals that the Storting has seen of increasing production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1172	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1177	The sea offers great opportunities for Norway. We're good at reminding each other. What's equally important to remember is that nature has a limit of tolerance. Fishing is an eternal resource. The stocks we harvest must be balanced and the activity must be sustainable. Research is the key to making sure. But we need more knowledge if we are to grow seafood within a sustainable framework. I think the government should be more offensive in investing in research to map populations, to find new solutions, to develop technologies and to strengthen skills. In our alternative state budget, the Labour Party is taking the first steps towards a new strategic effort at sea. It includes, inter alia: a marine knowledge leap based on the Marine21 strategy. Another part is 50 million. kr for the piloting of new technologies and innovation. We are proposing to increase the funding for stock research to identify resources and ensure sustainable management, and to close the gap between research and business, we are proposing the allocation to marine space research centres, modelled from research centres to environmentally friendly energy. In particular, at a time when the debate on aquaculture is particularly polarised, free, independent and thorough research is crucial. Important knowledge gives us a basis for making good decisions. It separates real issues from myths. Choosing to listen to this research is another matter, but each of us has a separate responsibility for the debate based on knowledge and to protect the integrity of research. There has been a small exchange of words about the independence of research in the last year here in the Chamber. It was triggered by the Minister of Fisheries earlier this year saying that he would take a settlement with dark counterpowers, and on direct questions he pointed to politicians, professors, institutions and that they are at our universities and at the academy. We have also had a debate on the Institute of Marine Research after the Minister of Fisheries, the head of the Institute, said that they should be nutritious and share the government's ambitions for growth. It's still a problematic statement. We've had debates on this in Stortinget, so it's interesting to see what the government writes, among other things. on the Veterinary Institute in the budget, where it says: ‘In 2017, the Institute shall give priority to knowledge development and professional work that can support the objectives presented by the Government in the Report. St. 16 Predictable and environmentally sustainable growth in Norwegian salmon and trout tops.» [[2014-2015]] We must state that the professional work of the Veterinary Institute and other research institutes is to be based on independent research. It is fundamental to trust that decisions are based on the best possible professional basis. The veterinary institute and other institutes are therefore free to give priority to research activities which do not support the objectives of the notification if they find professional reasons for doing so within the framework of the activities of the institute. An increased commitment to research must go hand in hand with a sun-clear protection on the independence and integrity of research. In the alternative state budget presented by the Workers' Party, we are taking the first steps towards a new strategic effort at sea, with a wide range of efforts to develop new technologies for stock research and for a marine knowledge promise. Nowhere are there indications of results or priorities for the various research institutes in their professional activities. We have to expect that the government in the state budget will also be responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1197	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1202	There has never been a clearer need in this room for a reading, writing and calculating guarantee than when you listen to the Minister of Agriculture. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we are obviously tens of millions above the government budget in terms of investments both for infrastructure and for roads to transport timber. In order for business to invest, and not to live on the state budget, but to contribute to the state budget, which is a well-known rhetoric from the right side of this room, it is essential that there is a high level of predictability and transparency. The latter is not a challenge in Norway. However, a number of major examples have been seen of the fact that when predictability is lacking, there is a large impact, among other things. in the UK sector where major decisions were taken just a few years ago not to invest in waste recycling facilities, which resulted in their having a record export of waste to, among others. Sweden and part of Norway, because one cannot have a predictable regime for fees or investment grants. «Investinor may have suffered permanent damage» makes the Address Paper clear and clear today and makes a tough judgment on the government's political craftsmanship with one of the main approaches to venture capital in order to enable several companies to participate in and contribute to the State budget. The representative, Bjørnstad, from the Progress Party, says that he has been working on this for more than three years. Well, working for over three years on a case that is the policy of the previous Labour Party government, I have to say is impressive, and it testifies to the ideological desire of Right to have a less active enterprise policy. As the representative Gundersen so glitteringly said himself: «Personally, I think the government's proposal to change the mandate of Investinor was good. Much of the resistance to this is based on misunderstanding or failure to understand the proposal of the government.’ It's quite impressive that it's only the Right who's understood this, that all the other parties in the Storting haven't realized it. All the business actors in Trondheim and the leading business community at the head of the book Atmel say that this is essential for taking new jobs out of Norway in order to create new businesses. As one of the other entrepreneurs says, all industries to grow need access to capital. How does access to capital increase? By reducing the Investinor and by strangling the mandate, only the Right and Right representatives can explain with credibility in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1218	Workplaces created in the private sector during the economic process of overthrowing the Workers' Party were heavily occupied by migrant workers — many Eastern Europeans in construction and many Swedes in the restaurant and service sectors. This has been pointed out by both the LO and the SSB. Record labour migrants move from Norway was the title of spring 2016. The SSB figures for 2016 showed that the relocation of foreign workers in 2015 was the largest ever recorded. The SSB analysis shows, inter alia: that labour migrants from EU Member States in Eastern Europe are significantly affected by the unemployment rate in Norway. When unemployment increases, many of these move home again. Immigrants from other countries are likely to be affected by the unemployment rate in their own country as well as by the unemployment rate in Norway. In June 2016, LO’s chief executive, Stein Reegård, said: The increase in unemployment has mainly taken place among immigrants with a background from the EU east. And as the SSB analysis shows, many of these move home again, and those who don't, are unfortunately unemployed in Norway. LO's bosses also said that all new jobs have gone to work immigrants. The SSB figures show that the created jobs did not last. All 85 pst. of the increase in employment from the fourth quarter of 2012 to the fourth quarter of 2013 had its counterpart to labour immigration. And if you look at the period after 2004 as a whole, immigrants have accounted for two thirds of the growth in employment. So Norway and Norwegian wealth have needed this labour immigration, but the Labour Party cannot now pretend to be able to create many long-term jobs in the private sector when they crashed, and that we are unable to create jobs in the private sector. That's just not right. In the South, the fall in oil is well felt, and there are many who have lost their jobs. However, it is reported from a local level that the unemployment rate is less than expected and that there are record numbers that start or have started their own businesses in these days. It is also reported that there are good schemes through the instrument used by local businesses and entrepreneurs. The whole region is also pleased, of course, that the Mechatronics Innovation Lab is now funded through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's a pretty unison voice from business that we have to do more of what this government already does. Then it is strange to record that the Workers' Party appears to be totally invoking the message from the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1229	The consumption of antibiotics and the presence of resistance among Norwegian domestic animals are among the lowest in the world. On average, while Norwegian farmers use approx. 2 mg antibiotics per kg meat produced are equivalent figures for Italy 370 mg and for Germany 211 mg. This suggests that in Norway we have good farmers, we have good health among animals, which means that there is a reduced need for antibiotics, and we have a restrictive practice in veterinarians in terms of use. In addition, we have responsible and competent animal nutrition and very good cooperation between animal and public health authorities. In June 2015, a national strategy against antibiotic resistance was adopted. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has developed an action plan against antibiotic-resistant bacteria in food and animals, following up government strategy. The plan is drawn up on the basis of recordings by the industry itself. Among the most central is the continuation of comprehensive measures to prevent Norwegian pig herds from becoming a reservoir for resistant bacteria. We must reserve some critically important antibiotics for human medicine. We will investigate regulatory requirements on the resistance testing of smokers and others in contact with pigs. We must continue to work towards antibiotic resistance in poultry, and we must strengthen monitoring and knowledge development. The Government proposes in the 2017 budget to strengthen the appropriation for the fight against antibiotic resistance by 10 million. kr in the field of agriculture. In addition, 6 million are granted. Under the Ministry of Health and Health for this work. The appropriations shall be intended to further develop the veterinary medical records, to strengthen the basic appropriations for research into antibiotic resistance and to increase knowledge of the dissemination and dissemination of antibiotic resistance among animals. This is a strong commitment that indicates that this government and this majority will have good and safe food based on healthy animals in Norway. We're still going to have that, and that's what this government is pushing for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1238	Fishing rights are an attractive and valuable product and have become even more so in recent months. The leakages of rights from small to large vessels have taken off, especially after the Minister of Fisheries boasted – as I understood it – that he had introduced a vessel quota instruction. It was really good. But I perceived it as a magic trick, because it was ensured that boats from 11 meters down were not to be sold to larger boats, and that was good, but it is not good that boats between 11 and 15 meters can still be sold to large boats. That's why I thought of it as a little magic trick. It's a fact that large ships have access to much larger capital and can praise the values of the rights, which we now see galloping, and it's very unfortunate for more environments. There have been recent opinions that the well-known Finnmark model, which had been fought in storms and in sea sprays by fishermen’s organisations and several fisheries ministers, must pass. It tells us that the different length groups on the boats must pass, and one should not be allowed to move them to larger boats. That is what is dangerous development. Let the small, efficient coastal boats fish coastally – they deliver locally, they deliver freshly, and they provide employment. When it came to the binding of the same rights, which is another side of the same issue, I also thought that that arrangement was not ideal, but it was completely wrong to cancel the binding that was – that you could not sell boats from Finnmark and south, but you could sell them in – without having an alternative. This has meant that it is approx. 30-40 pst. increase in the rights now sold out of the county. It's sold twelve plus seven rights from Finnmark and south this year, it's sold five in. There is a boat between 35 and 40 meters from Finnmark that has been sold for approx. 200 million. kr – to illustrate the size of this. It was offered 100 million. kr. for the rights of a 21-metre. The cash flow is in full swing. Will it be necessary for those sitting in the spring and living by the fish to see that there are others from the south, with money in their backs, to catch the fish? We have to have government leadership for this. We must ensure that the local population has access to coastal resources. The message for the revision boy in Honningsvåg still applies: Let's get some fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1249	To the representative of Gunnar Gundersen, who said in his speech that regional development funds are not being called up loudly in the country: there may not be torches along the streets where it is said that we need more regional development funds, but it is one of the most important pillars that the counties have to contribute to regional development. There have been important means of getting good investment in place, not least in More and Romesdal, where regional development funds were used to put the gas in place, to get the gas on land in Augra. The worm to Moreh was a project that fortunately landed, thanks to the fact that there were many who gathered and went on trains to get this in place, and it is one of the largest industrial plants in Norway. The working party has 200 million. kr more than the government, both at regional development funds and at the employer’s fee. So to simplify, yes, it's important to make a grip on it. We did a lot, and we did it better than the Swedes when we were in government. They had a rule board. There were some from the Right who said here that it was so very good, the Board of Rules that was in Sweden, and you can imagine that then it's strange that after establishing a rule board in Norway, there are less simplifications than it did without. As for the fact that the Right challenges us that there were workers who filled the jobs when we were in government and we had increases, I have to say that I react very strongly to the right thinking that jobs done by immigrants should be of less value. A job in Norway is a job in Norway, no matter what kind of citizenship those who do that job have. It's a fact that 360 000 new jobs were created while we were in government, and that there are now many fewer created, and that's something the government has to take over. In the case of the representative Trellevik, who was busy getting more goods over at sea, I very much share that view. What I don't understand about the post is that he says the Workers' Party is calling for it to be too late, and that we should have more money. No, the Labour Party doesn't say that. We say that it is very good that there is such a scheme, and that there is enough money in that scheme as of now, but the scheme does not work. So far, it's just taken out $100,000, and we've put in $40 million. kr here. Then it's important to look at what kind of device we're going to have to get the shipowners to use this arrangement, which they've been asking for a long time, and which I'm very happy that we've got in place. So the point is that it doesn't work, not that it's too small. So to the proposals: The Labour Party supports – and is in – proposal No. 17, while we are voting against proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1263	Only zero emissions are good enough if we are to stop the dangerous climate change. The message from the last two years’ climate response is ready: it is urgent to cut emissions by 2020. Since all countries that have gone from poverty to wealth have had increased energy consumption as an engine for growth, it is essential to ensure that countries choose renewable energy investments rather than lock themselves to fossil solutions. Fossil investments in electricity have the effect that they are cheaper to make, but they are more expensive to operate. It is cheaper with a diesel unit than with a solar panel, but the electricity from the diesel unit is still more expensive per kWt. As a development minister, I experienced that the poorest countries with the best solar resources and water resources had the highest electricity prices, because they did not have access to reasonable capital, which would enable them to invest in a solar panel or a hydropower plant. Norway has considerable competence in these sectors. Among other things, we have Scatec Solar and SN Power, which already contribute to investment in developing countries – enriching countries and Norwegian companies themselves. They, together with the government's own Green Competitiveness Selection, have given us politicians the impression that Norwegian institutions, such as the Export Credit Guarantee Institute, should be tasked with setting up a guarantee scheme for Norwegian companies' involvement in developing countries, so that not only exporters of Norwegian goods but also investors and capital and know-how can buy guarantees. The thought is simple. If a company is to make an investment in a developing country with few previous renewable investments to refer to, the risk will be perceived as high and the cost of capital will be similar. However, if twenty different projects can be seen together by giving investors the opportunity to purchase guarantees from GIEK with State guarantee as a backing, the risk of all the projects as a whole will be significantly lower and thus make the investments and flow cheaper. This is a good example of how a country such as Norway can use its role as a country and its financial muscle to support renewable industries in Norway, support developing countries’ development and cut greenhouse gas emissions without costing anything. I therefore take up a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the MDG and the SV, which I hope will be able to gather the Stortinget here today to ask the government to return to Stortinget during the spring session with such a guarantee scheme under the auspices of the Export Credit Guarantee Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1278	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1283	The representative Odd Omland criticises both the government's industrial policy and the Right's industrial policy. The comments make it clear that the Right wishes to focus on the innovation impact of the various actions that we are to support. The Labour Party is afraid that this will weaken conditions in other parts of the country. We have to make it quite clear that the Right wants equal terms for all founders and all who seek and want support from Innovation Norway. I'm afraid that the Labour Party's policy will guide what's going to be innovation, in such a way that the best projects actually don't win, but that we get projects in parts of the country based on geography and who it is like searching – not necessarily that it's the best projects that give the best result. The government has authorised 4 billion. kr to the instrument directed directly towards the South and the West to remedy the turmoil, description, experience and resistance we experience due to the low oil price and the increase in unemployment. But saying that our budget is business-neutral is directly wrong. There is a historical commitment to environmental technology systems, Innovation Norway, GIEK, agriculture, space and mining – a commitment that was completely abandoned under the Labour Party's control. That these are industrial policies that are kind of neutral, I just can't understand. When I travel around the country, I meet a business that is very enthusiastic about the way the government manages and confirms local business plans and local municipal plans – much more so than what the Labour Party did when they put in government and were to deal with reprisals from statesmen. This is an active enterprise policy — listening to business, listening to local authorities. I think this government has done very well, and most people have got it with them, even though the Labour Party has not. So we're being criticized by the Investinor Workers' Party. There was one from the Labour Party in the pulpit and talk about that this was the best action we had. I just can't understand that – 650 million. kr in losses after eight years, they invest annually in two-seven companies. In 2015, they spent only 24 million. SEK, in 2016 SEK 41 million. kr – and the budget is 100 million. kr. I don't understand that these are the most important investments we have. In Innovation Norway, for example, we bet over 3 billion. kr. It's high time we went after Investinor in the sumanes with the results they were creating. In addition, the representative, Eirik Sivertsen, informed us that we were bombing the budget. It's completely wrong. We have 52 million. kr in bet on more goods from land to sea. When Else-May Botten says that we should not read the comments as they are written in the budget, we shall take them with us. I thank you very much for the information that it is not correct, what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1298	There are some things that hang from the debate, and that deserve answers. First to the representative of Otterstad, who said that I have been working on a matter for three years: it is difficult when the matter is not even three months old, so it is of course proven to be wrong. I didn't have time to mention Investinor in my main post, but I think the committee has come up with a good solution. As of now, there does not seem to be too much venture capital in Norway, perhaps too little. Last year, investments in the venture phase were one third in both dollars and cents and in the number of companies in which it was invested, compared with 2010. That's why I think it's good that we get an investigation of this. Had it been like this that private investors stood scratching the door and felt displaced by the state, it would of course have been a completely different situation, but I do not feel that it is the situation as of now. So to the proposal on Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters. The Labour Party has run the country for 50 of the last 75 years and has now finally become concerned. I think that's good, but it's also a little sad. We know from the past that such a proposal is almost impossible to introduce and perhaps illegal. The Progress Party has long fought alone for an improved net pay regime. The working party was far out in the 21st century. We will continue to fight for a fully-fledged and strengthened net pay system, in line with what some of our neighbouring countries have, for example. Denmark, and I warmly welcome the Workers' Party to contribute to that struggle with us. Then to the representative Knut Storberget, who called for a more social profile in the tax administration. We give tax relief to everyone, the Workers' Party gives increase to everyone. That's the two profiles you have to choose from. When the Workers' Party increases fees, such as broadcasting fees, annual fees, tolls, inheritance fees or as the Workers' Party will propose on Saturday, that ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a device of a noise component in the one-off charge, and an assessment of a separate noise charge on the tyres’, they are the ones with the weakest starting point that gets the heaviest level. Increased use of oil money was also a theme in that article. The majority uses 225 billion. kr, the working party spends 221 billion. kr. So it's going to be 4 billion. kr which is the large difference between the responsible and the irresponsible – 0,3 per million of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1311	It was the representative Henriksen who made me take the floor. I understand that the Workers' Party will not let go of the myth that the undersigned will direct Norwegian research, but it is important to remember that the cow has been a calf when it comes to holding on to these kinds of claims. I've taken that freedom to go back to the Stoltenberg II government to see what it did in terms of research. I do not know whether this is because it is the same office that writes today, which also wrote under the Stoltenberg II government, but I registered that the representative Henriksen is not now putting any leadership, while, when you were in government, you left considerable leadership, even beyond what the undersigned has done. The Stoltenberg II government said, inter alia: i Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011, page 74, that knowledge development should ‘contribute to the achievement of the objective of the government’s strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry’. The Stoltenberg II government also said in Prop. 1 S for 2011–2012, page 58, that the Marine Research Institute ‘will continue to convert aquaculture-related research to reinforce the administrative councils of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs’. There are a little more leads than what I've ever suggested, but so I believe that all marine nutrition research is nutritious, even though the results of research may sometimes put some obstacles to the industry, because all the purpose of research is to create sustainability and predictability in this regard. That's what I've been thinking. I understand that the Workers' Party is trying to hold on to this, but I would like to look for more quotes from what the Workers' Party has written in its leadership when they have been in government, which has been considerably more in the form of leadership than what I have ever expressed. I note that the members of the KUF Committee of the Labour Party agree with me, because they write in a note that ‘a consequence of this is that from a political point of view you can control which topics you from a political team want to research on’. That's exactly what I've also said, so that's where we agree, and I really appreciate that. I really wanted to take the word to the representative of Ingebrichtsen when it comes to the county bonds, because I think that instead of SV now proclaiming that boats and allowances are coming out of Finnmark, it is perhaps important to look at the update that I get once a month. There's nothing that prowls out, but we see signs that some people are now prowling into Finnmark, and I think that's very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1320	To the last speaker: I would like to see them speak. What we hear from the quays around Troms and Finnmark and other parts of the district I come from is the opposite. It seems that we need to deepen our speech to Sandberg. In the case of one or the other quotation, the practice of setting up institutions to support objectives that the government has seen, i.e. not giving priority to research that does not support these objectives, but that is independent, must be removed. What is positive about the comment made by the Church, Education and Research Committee, where I have also been active in making recordings, is that one says exactly that. That practice has to go away. We're going to have an independent research. We should have reason to believe in the research we have, we should not be able to believe that there are political leaders behind it. Then I agree entirely with a statement from the Minister of Agriculture that there is no export we live from; it is value creation. It seemed to me that I was a reprehensible statement from the Minister of Agriculture, a statement that might be of concern to the Minister of Fisheries, who is so concerned about exports – insofar as we, the Norwegian people along the coast of Norway, are able to make exports for value creation. That's what's interesting, not how many fish disappear out of the country. You can imagine that the value creation goes completely elsewhere, which is also signposted. What is perhaps the greatest concern in this debate is the amazing possibilities that we had at the beginning of this great period, but that have leaps. One might imagine whether the government had invested all the billions they gave in tax relief to the richest, on business development, on business building, on the green shift – all the big words we use in this debate. The really big investment in this budget is that the thousand richest every day get $1,800 in tax bills, signed Right and the Progress Party. The increment from blue to innovation in Norway is well below 10 pst. of the tax havens that only go to the most, the richest in this society. If the government had embraced the initiative that came from Norwegian oil and gas, Tekna, Abelia and Norwegian industry in the spring of 2014, when we started to see the downturn in the eye, about technology transfer from this industry to other industries, we would have been a completely different place. This is the story in four years' time with lost possibilities, and we in SV are looking forward to the end of that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1333	It is almost that one has to pinch his arm when one hears that the defences of the government parties for not creating jobs in Norway are that under Stoltenberg II many jobs were created, but there was so much labour immigration. One could say a lot about it. I believe that it is very much a good thing to say something about the activity of an economy that one creates 360 000 jobs, two thirds of them in the private sector, and that it gives a signal about how it works. I almost have to pinch my arm when the representative Ingunn Foss spends a lot of time telling me that there were so many immigrants, without at all dwelling on why it is that in the last three years, when it comes to creating new jobs, you don't even reach a tenth of the jobs created in the previous period, and that two thirds of all over objectives are not in the private sector, but in the public sector. If I had been a member of one of the two parties that are constantly talking about executive power and having a nutritious ‘approach’ or relation to society, I would have asked some questions about whether the rather powerful instruments that have been put in place, especially tax havens, actually work, and that de facto none of what comes from a large group of new jobs, then had to be in the public sector. That is why, for good reason in this debate, questions have been asked about what makes it possible for a report on forests and the state budget to talk about instruments that work, for example. wood-based innovation. It cost $19 million. kr or something like that. And then you cut it out. This is what we mean by passive industrial policy – knowingly and willfully advocate measures that are said to work, and then cut them out, but let the large tax administrations, which have no proof of their effectiveness, stand on the contrary. I feel that the reason for going into all the new jobs created under Stoltenberg II only represents the total collapse of the government's industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1340	There have been many different attacks through this debate – Difference Norway, the differences are increasing. Well, there was a report today that says that the differences are increasing, but it also says a little bit about the reason for it, and it shows some signs that the government's policy will lead to the differences getting smaller. What is the main reason for differences in a society? That's the education society is able to give to the young. The main reason for differences in a society is the level of education we have, how good school we can give our kids. With the efforts of the government at school, and with the results we see coming now, that will help. The differences will be smaller. In fact, immigration is an important factor in increasing disparities. You get a lot of people who have a slightly worse starting point than many of those who live in the country. It should also be included in this debate. That's what jobs are. Well, it's not our words -- it was the chief economist in LO who warned against closing his eyes and believing that all the jobs we've created now are lasting jobs that will add values and resources to the Community register. Many of the jobs created in the private sector are temporary jobs that will be lost when we come to a low economic downturn, said the chief economist in 2013. I am surprised that the representative Storberget does not climb so hard in his arm that he discovers that we are actually in a lower economic cycle now than where we were in 2013. Then everything had been going up, then it was not dangerous to create jobs. But that was not the right bet, because permanent jobs were not created. So let's do that. Finally, to tax relief: there are many ways to deliver tax relief. One way is to say that the tax exemption for membership of an employee organisation needs to be significantly increased in the next period, and that is what we should do if we come into government. It's a very precise tax haven to buy friends out there. Very successful with the red-green first time! Then they sold the Senterlot for $6 million. NOK on Norwegian TV, and it will certainly be very successful in the future. But that kind of tax haven't created jobs. Taxes in the property tax for our part of the country are 600 million. kr. which could have been available to create other jobs. It's okay that there's more in Bærum – I don't care about that, but it could be 600 million. kr available to create new jobs in North Norway. And why can I say that? Well, because very many of the wealth created in North Norway – the wealth tax pays – is because people own jobs, own businesses and create values every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1353	Only a few comments on the vote of the Central Party later today: we are going to support proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party, and under point C of the Framework Area 11, the Centre Party will vote against V. So a little bit about proposal no. 18, about royal crabs: History of royal crabs started with the royal crab message. That's where the Central Party wanted to say that the Másøy fishermen would also get dishes, but it wasn't the majority that agreed. Now the representatives Frank Bakke-Jensen and Oskar J. Grimstad have presented a document-8 proposal on king-fishing, where one would like to expand the who can participate in the fishing. The proposal we have put forward today is very appropriate to give the Council of State the room for action he needs to change this from 2017, because we are asking the government to consider giving fishermen all over Finnmark access to the fish. It will also be accepted whether the assessment ends with the inclusion of fishermen from Måsøy, and that it can be defined in more precise terms – it is in the proposal. But let me stress that it is not a blank authorisation to change the activity requirement that you have planned, but that there is a need to make adjustments to get a system that has accepted and trusted in the fishing industry. I would like to invite the Right Party and the Progress Party, which have put in a representative proposal earlier, to give the Council of State the space for action that, when the Board of Directors' hearings are closed and summed up, he can do what I believe is a multiple of the Stortinget. To Gunnar Gundersen: He addressed this topic that no one is in a torch for regional development funds. Yeah, that's right, but it's not an expression that people don't think regional development agents are of little importance. It's because these people are busy going to the torch to keep their county office, to keep their hospital and to save their municipality. There is so much centralization from this government that you don't have time to go in all the torches that you should have gone in. There is often talk in the debate about what we are going to live on after oil. One thing I'm sure about: Going on a torch is not something we're going to live off after oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1362	The President understands that there is the production of torches, probably, from which we shall live! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1367	The representative, Ove Bernt Trellevik, felt that the government was pursuing an active industrial policy, and felt that we were too black-painting in this context. He showed that the government was betting on space travel. Then I do not understand that the government in its draft budget made up for just major changes in Norwegian space policy, which would have actually helped to reduce the Norwegian space industry, by cutting dramatically in ESA's programmes. Two years ago, they also promoted a proposal to cut the Copernicus programme. It is incomprehensible in view of this industry that it contributes to important high-tech jobs across the country and with R & D that can also be used in other industries. It is also strange that the government is proposing such major changes in space policy before they start working on a space strategy. I must say that I am pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party have turned around in the Stortinget and that the committee is now united against the government's dramatic cut. In addition, it is important to follow up with accompanying materials for the industry, and I record that only the red-green do. Another industry that is important to us in the Workers' Party is the mineral industry. What the government is doing with this industry also does not testify to an active industrial policy. In the Question Time, I have challenged the Minister whether they intend to follow up the mineral strategy of the Stoltenberg government with a high potential industry. I got that confirmation from the minister that they wanted to. It is therefore surprising that we again register that the government does not correct the cut of 25 million. kr that was made in NGU in the ageing of the last year’s budget, in NGU’s monitoring programmes in South and North Norway. The cut last year was justified by the difficult refugee situation. However, when they do nothing to correct this in the year's budget, I think it is completely incomprehensible. The Labour Party has, of course, invested funds in this in its budget, as we believe that the monitoring must continue so that we do not lose this competence, which will limit the possibilities for new industrial development. I also mentioned in my previous post that the government is not so active in business policy. Although many examples of this could have been mentioned, I will mention one more, as people in the South notice. Mechatronics Innovation Lab is important for the transition facing South Africa, as a national centre for innovation, piloting and technology qualification for industry. It was therefore disappointing that the government has not shown the willingness to prioritize appropriations for this centre, and I note that it is also this time the budgetary agreement that has granted the funds to the MIL.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1379	It was not the right who said that jobs created by the red-green government were filled by work immigrants, it was LO's bosses Stein Reegård and SSB who said. Of course, one worker from another country is worth as much as a Norwegian worker. Norway and Norwegian wealth depended entirely on foreign labour, especially during this period. But when the Workers' Party in its rhetoric says that it was those who created the jobs in this period, and do not take into account that we had a historically high activity in the oil industry, it falls on its own unreasonableness. To claim that this government, which has experienced a historical fall in oil revenues, does not create jobs, sounds very strange, especially when the business community so clearly reports the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1388	I don't know who has to pinch his arm the hardest, but it surprises me to listen to the representative of Storberget's black paint. He must have almost forgotten which state he came from. I wonder if he's taken over what the oil price drop actually means. That means that those parts of the country that have called it being in the oil shadow for quite many years now experience a cleansing where jobs may also have to move a little back there. Hedmark may have been the foremost company to market just that with being in the oil shadow, at least as long as the Workers' Party sat and ruled – and so now a representative of Hedmark is standing here on the pulpit and painting what is happening. It's a rather dramatic transition – everyone should be aware of it. And as I said, it's working with hugely high value creation that disappears. We can only hope that the country will be able to replace them. I think the government is doing a brilliant job just by being able to keep the numbers up with such a challenge. And then to Investinor and the representative of Otterstad. I really wonder if the Workers' Party and Otterstad have read what it says. First of all, it was set at 100 million. kr for initial investments, and at the same time written in the proposition: «As an economic objective of the company, the management capital shall be kept at a minimum within a reasonable period of time, including the operating costs of the company.» So the Labour Party is doing its best to propose that the mandate for initial investment should not be closed. You could not have read the proposition before writing in the setting and made the suggestion! I think that's quite remarkable. When I heard the quote, it seemed almost better than when I said it. It should be a requirement to read the proposition before going out and criticising what the government is doing. Finally, on regional development funds: perhaps a county project started with the new oil – the production of torches. There are, of course, successful projects through regional development funds — of course it does. But I also think the analysis shows that a lot goes away to administration and to consultant fees that end up in nothing. And if you ask business, if you want to go, or if you want regional food development, there's no doubt about what the answer is. Then it's clear that you still want to bet along the lines of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1406	The representative Storberget says that tax laws don't work. I thought it was worth noting. Because it's imperative for a government to know what kind of labor party we're going to be in, because they rarely know what bones they're going to be on. As far as I know, the Workers' Party has now joined a tax reform that essentially intends to reduce taxes. Why have they been involved unless it works? If you're in a reform that doesn't seem to work, I think the Labour Party has an explanation problem. They have an explanation problem. It is true that, after having enough capital for all the individual projects they would like to have chosen to support, whether it is in the agricultural sector or other places, they are liable to finance it by printing additional taxes to Norwegian enterprises, to Norwegian farmers, to Norwegian workers. Then they use some of the money to do good, and then they set the rest of the oil fund to save them in foreign companies, which are going to compete with the Norwegians. For me, it is crucial that we can take care of the Norwegian capital that can be reinvested, whether it is in industry or in agriculture. It leads me to the second point, that SV now is talking in four years with lost possibilities. We're not going to look out the window for a long time until we see a lot of people in many sectors that are now giving gas to exploit the possibilities, whether they're in agriculture, in forestry, in fisheries, in farming or in other industries. This is not a four-year lost option. It is four years that have laid the basis for new investment in Norwegian business. The recession we've had as a result of falling in the oil price is a ripple to what we would see if SV managed politics alone. Because not only would they have stopped the extraction of oil in many areas and not given new search areas that the industry in the West now needs, but they would also have increased taxes on the mainland industry. Then SV says that with what the representative, Mr. Knag Fylkesnes, described as having the most active industrial policy measured in budget support. There's no budget support we're living with in this country. We live by giving business the opportunity to create values that we ourselves cherish. We live on the jobs that contribute to the state budget, not the jobs that have taken their money from the state budget. It's an important principle for this government. It makes me happy that we are landing an agreement on the budget today, for agriculture and for sectors otherwise, with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which has been shown to be willing to take responsibility when the country demands it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1419	I must say I am very surprised at the poor lay-up of the northernmost states in our country by the representative of Knag County. He's talking about quotas and vessels flowing out of Finnmark, the coastal fleet lir, and the quotas travel south. He even has a proposal for an investment fund, but only specifically for the northernmost states, Troms and Finnmark. I don't think the region itself wants this downfall of the states and the inhabitants, which it represents. So I also ask myself, where does Knag get the information from? When the Council of State corrects the claim of ‘fossing out of Finnmark’ when it concerns quotas and vessels, he says that no, that's not the answer he gets when he stands on the berth in Finnmark and in Troms. I hope that the documentation can be obtained from a slightly different location than from a discussion on the quaikant. I'm not going to talk to those on the kaikant, but the documentation should not be retrieved from it. Then we also know that unemployment in the most northern states is a record low. The fishermen are doing well, and the profitability is generally very good. I have no faith that unnecessary special arrangements will lift anyone, but make a poor impression, which Knag Fylkesnes repeatedly shares and substantiates through his argument about the northernmost states. So finally, some words relate to the 360 000 jobs that the Labour Party got in place over its eight years: yes, they got in place 360 000, of which 120 000 were in public, but they never reached their mark on the warm hands, a rather 12,000 one-on-one, which was proclaimed. They only reached 560.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1428	First of all, I cannot agree to make a comment to the representative, Gundersen, who asked questions about the need for regional development funds. He argued for approx. in the same way as another local representative from the Right did when we, Troms-benken, were meeting with the Regional Council of Nord-Trom and the Regional Council of the Tromsø region, where the Right-Representative almost asked questions about the actual need for regional development funds. There was an interesting view, for then the rapporteurs took the floor – one by one – and pointed to the possibility of using their own municipal food funds to invest in local projects, such as Kai on Husøya, multipurpose hall on Bardufoss, Arctic Race of Norway, etc. They said right away that regional development funds are, therefore, resources that give our local people-chosen opportunities to bet on local knowledge, rather than channelling more and more through an office in Oslo. Then I have a comment to the Minister for Fisheries: when the Minister for Fisheries is so annoyed by my comments on research, it is almost tempting to ‘take a list’ and say that there has obviously been some sore toes here. The Minister of Fisheries read a note from the Committee on Churches, Education and Research, and that was a very good comment, because it is from a chapter for which I myself am the rapporteur. He read the first part of the sentence: ‘From a political standpoint, you can control which topics you from a political team want to research on.’ Then he left out the second part of the sentence: ‘... but not how the research is going to be done or what results are going to come out.’ So this is a note on the Right and the Progress Party was not on. The Right Party and the Advance Party also did not agree with the other remark, which I mentioned, that the Veterinary Institute is free to give priority to research that does not support the objectives of the Storing Communication, if one finds professional reasons for doing so. This was also a note on the Right and the Progress Party was not present. We have had this discussion on research before, and the fact that there are still uncertainties is primarily due to the fact that the Progress Party and the Minister are still not clear enough. The Minister of Fisheries has begun to say the right things, but it is also worth noting that he has not gone back on a single word of what he has said, either about the Institute of the Marine Research or about the ‘dark counterpowers’ – which it would still be interesting to know who is, rather than to throw a suspicion of the point fingers that are directed at academia, institutions, politicians and professors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1439	I was actually going to make a hard contribution to the Dale Council, but then it was Bakke-Jensen, then the Sandberg Council, etc. Then Oskar J. Grimstad held the last post. It's interesting that we got there in the Progress Party's history that the Progress Party calls everyone who fights for the right of the coastal people to dwell on their own resources, poor. So it's poor to fight against the policy that leads to even more for the richest in this society. It's become poor in the value of the Progress Party. It really has been an opening for me now to see the birth – live – of the elite party of progress. Thanks to the representative Oskar J. Grimstad for inviting me into the birthplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1446	The representative Else-May Botten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1451	In the case of Investinor, I think the representative Gundersen himself has not understood what a venture fund is for anything. The government would close this mandate for active direct investment and suggested that the investor should conduct only passive co-investment. The representative of Gundersen should make his own comitology, which is opposed to the amendment of the Investinor. So to what goes on regional development funds, and it was so good that they went down, because then the more money they got, said Gundersen. No, it's not like that. In my country, there have been very few millions of regional development funds. We're the county that gets at least money for county roads, and we haven't experienced any increase in roads. Workplaces are not created by politicians; they are created by business actors. However, whether it is attractive to create new jobs has to do with the kind of industrial policy that is being pursued. So the conclusion today is that no more jobs are created in Norway, and that is why the policy cannot be accurate and effective either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1460	It was the representative of Gundersen who got me to take the floor, when he asked: Do you want roads or regional development funds? The answer I get around is: I want broadband. It is the most important field of travel around the country – it is broadband. There are some things that can be used, more than what the government has proposed. I'm glad that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have been given the vows, but still they are far from the Labour Party, which had 106 million. kr more to broadband in our alternative budget. Regional development funds: there's a lot of good examples that there's been good, sustainable businesses out of these funds. I'll mention an Arctic Race of Norway. It was financed through regional development funds during the first few years. She wouldn't have seen the light of day if it hadn't been for the three northernmost states to use these funds. And the make for the good marketing of Norway should a jam look for a long time. So yes, we also want regional development funds. The Labour Party was the first to reduce corporation tax. It happened while we were in government. He goes directly on the bottom line, and it's far more effective than bringing down the property tax. This has been recognised by most people a long time ago, and it is also supported by all studies. The financial crisis, which occurred in 2008, is completely forgotten when the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to explain that the government of Stoltenberg actually facilitated the creation of 360 000 new jobs. I don't want to worry so much that the Right Party and the Progress Party create public jobs. It would be good if there had been more teachers, nurses or more added to kindergartens. But no, these jobs actually go to the construction of a bureaucracy. I want to repeat what I said at the end of my previous post: we need to pursue an active industrial policy in order to facilitate the creation of new jobs in this country. More dosing of the wrong medicine is not helpful.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1473	The representative Knut Storberget has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1478	I respond with great interest to the fact that a new line of defence has been drawn up in respect of the 360 000 jobs created under Stoltenberg. Now there aren't necessarily foreigners, but that one didn't achieve any other goal. I think it's gonna be creepy. We're in a situation where the government is now about to leave a growing period and have created only one tenth of the number, two thirds of which are in the public sector, and then the only answer you get from the government is that either there were too many foreigners in the statistics, or you didn't achieve other goals. This doesn't last. One of the conclusions of this debate must be that it must be possible to have several thoughts in your head at once. Building forest roads is good, but it does not have to go at the expense of wood-based innovation programmes. We need something to drive to and from. There is no point in building forest roads if one is not to extract timber. The same is true for regional development funds: we need to create new businesses, we need something to drive to and from the beautiful new roads that are being built. Here it's about doing to have many thoughts in your head at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1488	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1493	Let me begin by saying to the Stortinget and to the Committee: thank you for a good debate! And then I'm going to go on with this story of regional development funds. I think it is a little strange that it is largely rapporteurs and councillors who express their opinion on regional development funds, not most people. I do not doubt that there are any good projects in the country that have benefited from regional development funds, but I have also spent a few years in the Regional Development Committee in the South-Trundellag county and seen how much of these funds goes to both administrative and high-gassed directors around in companies that receive support. Then I want to give commendation to the Dale Government Council, which had an excellent contribution to make on fiscal policy. I want to repeat that – we still have not received an answer to that: If the Workers' Party does not believe that tax relief works, why have you agreed to a tax settlement that is primarily intended to facilitate taxes on people and businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1502	First, to the representative of Knag County, who is calling for numbers. The numbers are available. With regard to the county bonds in 2015, there were 409 participants in the coastal fleet after cod, haze and sein in Finnmark, and then there were 9 in addition to the NVG – i.e. 409. Until 1 December of this year there have been eleven movements. They could have happened with the background in other structures, but that's what SV thinks is a “fossing” out of Finnmark. There's never been more fish in North Norway than it does now – under this government, I'm allowed to add. It is not this government that has provided it either, but there are good conditions out there and a great commitment among the fishermen. I could also have said the same about the instructions from 12 January, which SV thought was disastrous. There is nothing at present that should indicate that there have been any changes due to the overall instruction. However, I will inform Stortinget about this in a global biggest message in January/February. That brings me to the representative Henriksen. I think this is important especially for North Norway, and I'm going to talk down all the forces that have an intention to talk down North Norway – if these forces are dark or white or bright or green, no world thing means: it's going reasonably well in North Norway. That's what I was meant to do at the fishing boat's meeting, too, when I said I wanted to fight some forces that are talking down this part of the country, because it doesn't deserve the part of the country. I must also be allowed to say that the Arctic Race of Norway went reasonably well, however, when this government got 15 million in place. kr, so I don't think we should have a bad conscience for that either, and I think we'll look forward to that too. And if you're so very concerned with these regional development funds, then why is it that in the north you accept that the region is being drained for 600 million? kr in taxes on wealth, which could have simply been left in the rural part of small and medium-sized enterprises which actually know what challenges we face in the north, which actually poses patriotic capital? Now let these small and medium-sized enterprises in the north keep their wealth tax and create jobs, growth, employment and optimism in the north. But you don't want to, because it's just the rich who pay taxes on wealth!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1515	The representative Ingunn Foss has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1520	It's easy for politicians to accommodate when the economy goes so bad and the times are good. Then businesses earn money, and there are jobs for people, which is the basis for our entire well-being. It is more demanding for any government to facilitate profitable operations when the prices of the goods it has depended on are halved. But it's wrong not to create jobs, and it's a fact that business is asking for more of the same. Here I think the Workers' Party should listen to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1525	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1530	A little in conclusion about second-hand cars. It was a very bad thing that the representative Johnny Ingebrichtsen didn't have time to be present now, because we were discussing just the news from Finnmark. The county has been combined, and development funds have been allocated to the region for a variety of purposes, including: One and a half million. kr to bridge the Council House Square in Hammerfest. So it's Norway's remotest richest municipality, and when I asked the representative Johnny Ingebrichtsen why in the world one had to do such a priority, he said that no one else was looking. So every penny that has been granted in regional development funds probably has not been as accurate as you would have liked. But it's a point that we've cut 1.2 billion. kr in RUP funds, and then we've added 1.4 billion. to the county roads, and I think it's a good trade. To those who otherwise complain about how we are going to move on: Yes, we are going on with better schools, better opportunities for young people and better framework conditions for creating businesses and creating jobs. Then we have the funds to fill in the budget and give to those who need money from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1537	I really didn't intend to sign up for this debate. The debate of the Transport Committee is now beginning. But when broadband expansion came up as a theme from the representative Heggø, I was nevertheless tempted to draw. It is not the case that there are public subsidies that are driving broadband development in Norway. In 2015, it was invested 8.6 billion. kr in broadband development in Norway by the echom companies themselves. They are the ones that are driving the expansion of broadband in Norway. Then we have public support to expand broadband in those areas of the country where there is no commercial basis at all for expanding it, and that effort has increased through the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. Sweden has chosen the model that may appear to be preferred by the Workers' Party, a model driven by public subsidies. The result is the exact opposite of what we have achieved in Norway. It's slower, because companies don't expand unless they get public support. Thus, the rate of development of access to public subsidies is determined. In Norway it is the opposite. We have a tearing development and much better coverage than what we have in Sweden – thanks to the market-driven model we have chosen in this country, which has also increased investment in the ecosystem from 6.9 billion. SEK in 2012 to SEK 8.6 billion. kr in 2015. Finally, a small remark about creating jobs: if there are any people who believe that companies that are struggling in Norway today need 10 billion. kr in increased tax bill from the Workers' Party, well, they are wrong. Then they also need to take a trip to the companies that will be affected by the tax increases proposed by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1548	The representative Odd Omland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1553	Several teams have asked questions about how the Workers' Party could be involved in the tax settlement. Well, the Workers' Party is to cut corporate tax. So did we in the previous period. But we're not going to cut the property tax, because it doesn't work. It does not create the jobs that are lagging behind. I have to say that it is also strange in the debate to listen to questions about how we have created 360 000 jobs, and that EEA citizens as well are a little inferior. This government is trying to talk away from the serious situation in which it is located, namely with the highest unemployment rate and the lowest growth in employment of 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1569	I think the debate really reflects that there has been a small sunrise breeze. It is a struggle for who has granted more in various posts, but no one highlights how to finance it, or how to arrive at lower oil money use – which in itself everyone also markets that one has. I note that there are really not many who have a special alternative. The most active industrial policy Norway can pursue is precisely the policy of the government. There is a commitment to transport and infrastructure – broadband is part of the infrastructure, as I see it. It's focusing on knowledge and research. We see that business also responds – there is a sharp increase on the research side. It is to bet on growth-promoting tax relief, mainly for local ownership. Here I must say that the representative Knag Fylkesnes simply must have forgotten that tax relief is actually money for each of us. It is as the representative Bakke-Jensen said – a lot of the money is tied up in local businesses and jobs. It is not the state that sits and finances the majority of Norwegian business. The state is within a few large, listed companies plus some important sectoral policy companies. In addition, private investors and owners are located locally in their local settings, which finance most of the Norwegian industrial activities. That a representative from the northern part of the country can then claim that more of the money is managed from the capital, when you want to give that kind of tax relief, is incomprehensible. There I think the Council of State Sandberg had an absolutely excellent post. So a little bit about state ownership. I think that replicating was a paradox – when you try to make politics out of something that is a matter for the board and for the corporate assembly. Of course, we're all sitting here and following up on it, we're big owners in Telenor, but making politics out of any conflict in a company, before it's reached through the organs it's supposed to, I find it quite remarkable. I think the Council of State answered the questions that came very well. It is clear that you are following the situation, but you are not giving advice and you are not expressing what you think about the conflict that is going on. It is the company meeting and the board of directors of the company that are responsible for solving the problem. Let's hope they do it fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1580	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1585	Only to the last thing that was said, about Telenor. I agree with what kind of governance is involved, what responsibility the board has, what responsibility it has. But the Storting knows only the council, that's the council we're dealing with. It's interesting, and it's supposed to be of interest to the Storting, how the Council of State acts in these matters, as the administrator of the state ownership. Are the principles that the Storting has agreed to follow? Is the company operated in a way that assures the state owner interest in the company? There should be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1592	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1606	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines of response to the main speakers of the parties and six lines of response to the members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1619	First, let me thank the Committee in general and the opposition especially for constructive cooperation in a hectic budget. Good, efficient and safe transport systems are a prerequisite for the creation of value throughout the country, increased competitiveness and well-functioning housing and labour market regions. Since the government joined, the appropriations for road and runway have increased by more than 50 pst, and the maintenance seat run on the road and track has been reduced for the first time in many decades. The proposal for a State budget and the agreement between the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties make it possible to continue the investment on road, rail and public transport in 2017. The maintenance allowance on the road will be reduced by 5 billion. kr from 2013 to 2017, which is important for all those travelling on Norwegian roads – not least from a road safety perspective. Better road standard, enhanced centre marking, separate driving directions on several routes, increased controls on heavy vehicles, renewal of the car fleet and long-term attitude-making work are one of the most important things we can put in to strengthen road safety work and thus enable us to reach the zero vision for heavy damage and killing in traffic. Over time, the arrows have pointed in the right direction, and the accident figures in 2015 have been the lowest since 1947. Given the traffic growth since 1947, it is good news, although every life lost is a tragedy. Unfortunately, the figures for 2016 seem to be going in the wrong direction. This shows that we must continue and strengthen our efforts in the coming years. The budgets for the road and the track have increased by over 20 billion. kr since 2013. But as important as spending more money is how the money is spent. It has cost twice as much to build a road in Norway as in Sweden. It cannot continue. There's going to be huge investment in Norwegian transport in the next few years, and we're totally dependent on getting even more out of every penny invested than what we're doing now. On average, it takes ten years to plan a major transport project. It's too long. The government has taken many steps to streamline, simplify and improve the planning and implementation of major transport projects. The establishment of New Weier AS is an example of this. New Weier AS will build 530 km with four-field motorway for the next 20 years and is already well under way. The first large contract is awarded on the route E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal, and the contract sum is half a billion dollars lower than originally estimated. The state road service is doing a lot of good, but they do not have a monopoly on good ideas either. New roads challenge road standards, including approx. 10000 requirements on how to build roads, and have new ideas and other ways to solve them. It is positive for the State Road Service to be challenged at home. The Government has decided that a government plan will be applied more frequently to large national projects in order to contribute to faster progress and shorter planning times. The E16 Skaret–Hønefoss and Ringeriksbanen now provide five years of planning, with possible construction start in 2019 and implementation by 2024. It contributes to lower costs and faster implementation. Also on the railways there is new thinking about organisation and competition. Since the establishment of the Fly train in 1998, we have had competition on the railways, and it has been so successful that the 18-year-old vehicles of the Fly train, their successful service model and punctuality are referred to by the opposition as legacy silver. At Gjøvikbanen we have seen that competition has given more and more satisfied passengers, more punctuality and better regularity. There is therefore reason to believe that passengers will enjoy competition also in other sections of Norway in the next few years. One of the areas that has really been given a big boost through government policy and budgetary conciliation with the cooperation parties is the collective effort in and around the big cities. The reward scheme has been significantly strengthened, and between 2014 and 2017, State support for public transport in urban areas amounts to 6.3 billion. kr. In comparison, it was $1.8 billion. kr for the period 2010–2013. Furthermore, the government has introduced State co-financing of 50 pst. on all major collective projects in and around the major cities, where government co-financing was scarcely provided at all. This is a necessary change of pace if we are to achieve the objective of taking traffic growth in large cities with public transport, bicycles and corridors. Oslo is one of the cities that has been doing well with the collective strategy in recent years. Between 2007 and 2014, the population of Oslo and Akershus increased by 14 pst, while the number of passages through the bombing decreased by 7 pst. This was made possible by significant upgrades of the collective offer over several years under changing civic councils. Despite this success, Oslo received very little or no money from the reward scheme under the red-green government. However, the bourgeois government enables the Red City Council to build on the bourgeois success story through significant grants from the reward scheme. Intelligent transport systems, ITS, have the potential to change Norwegian transport as we know it today. Already thinking about how small, autonomous electric minibuses can revolutionize public transport by solving the biggest challenge of today’s collective system – that it takes you from a place you are not, to a place you should not. The ITS can provide us with more efficient queue management, reduced driving time and better use of existing infrastructure. The government has announced that it will send the Stortinget a bill on an autonomous vehicle test system, and it is already open to autonomous ships in Trondheimsfjorden. In this area, I believe that Stortinget must strive both to facilitate development and not least to ensure that we do not stand in the way of development. It will probably go faster than any of us can predict today. The government and cooperation parties’ policy of joining Norway in EU climate policy in the non-quota sector — including the transport sector — has been widely endorsed by the Stortinget. This implies that Norway has undertaken very committed and ambitious emission reduction targets in 2030, and that much of the job needs to be done in the transport sector. My vision is a zero-emission transport sector. As far as the car park is concerned, we're doing a good job. Emissions from new cars have been reduced by one third since 2013, and Norway is phasing in zero-emission cars faster than any other country in the world. The target of the 85 grams CO 2 /km climate agreement for new cars will be reached three years in advance. Governments and cooperative parties have both extended and reinforced the benefits for zero-emission cars, and when a number of new models are launched in different sizes and price classes over the next few years, everything is at the ready for an even faster phase-in. If we reach the target of zero or low emissions for all new cars by 2025, according to the Directorate for the Environment, this would mean an emission cut of more than 2 million tonnes by 2025. The Transport Economic Institute estimates that today's policy instruments and expected technology development can contribute to a cut of 5 million tonnes of CO 2 in 2030. In that case, it will make a significant contribution to achieving the 2030 targets. On the back of the phase-in of zero-emission vehicles, new opportunities for green shipping are emerging. The Elf Ampere is already in operation, and the experience so far is good. The operating costs are significantly lower than for the corresponding dieselferger. New ferries are on their way in, and in the next few years 70 ferries are on their way to tender. Everyone has to be environmentally friendly. Norwegian ship designers, shipyards and technology suppliers are taking up a global leadership position in green shipping that can create new jobs and open new doors on the international market in the years to come. Enova is one of our most important transport conversion tools. Enova has spent 800 million in the last year. kr on climate action in the transport sector. It's more than Transnova disposed of throughout its lifetime. It shows that it was right to integrate Transnova into Enova, and it also shows the importance of Enova's fund for climate, renewable energy and energy conversion being doubled to nearly 70 billion. kr in the last four years. From 2018, the Fund will be replaced by an annual transfer corresponding to a fund of 100 billion. kr, which will increase predictability and better financing compared to today's model. Enova supports today, among other things: roll-out of electric vehicle speed chargers across the country, loading stations for ships and ferries, hydrogen stations, efficiency measures and new concepts on shipping and has also supported Norway's first electric fishing boat. The Government and the Cooperation Parties agree to establish a CO 2 fund to contribute to migration, inter alia. heavy transport. The objective is that the fund will cut more than 2 million tonnes of CO 2 by 2030. Another important climate action in the transport sector is the stepping-up of the biofuel marketing obligation up to 20 pst. in 2020, of which 8 p.m. shall be double-counting advanced biofuels. It is essential that the phase-in of advanced biofuels should be as high as possible — as quickly as possible — and that the government should follow market developments closely with a view to further increasing the sub-requirement of advanced biofuels where possible. No matter how environmentally friendly heavy transport becomes, there are very good reasons to move more goods across to sea and track. The government's proposal for an incentive scheme to move more goods to the sea was reinforced by over 50 million. kr in the budgetary agreement with the cooperation parties. This means that in 2017 it will be over 80 million. kr available to allow companies to facilitate the transport of goods. We have great expectations of this system. I look forward to a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1675	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1680	One of the largest projects in this period, which we even think are performance projects, is the launching of rail traffic, passenger traffic by train. But it's probably not that easy to get to it anyway, because now we're told about delays, delays, on the competition. There is reason to believe that one of the reasons for this is the unresolved question of the large pension obligations of the NSB. The Minister of Transport has informed Stortinget that the matter has been raised with ESA and is there. I have registered that the NSB has clearly stated that this issue needs to be resolved before the tender because it is absolutely fundamental for the NSB to clarify this. So my question is simply: can Astrup promise that the question of NSB's pension obligations will be resolved before the first traffic package is put to tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1685	It is absolutely essential that we have a good track record in the railway sector, which I am sure the representative Myrli agrees with. In view of the support given by the Workers’ Party to competition through the Fly train over all these years, the representative will probably agree that it is reasonable to support competitive outsourcing on other routes as well. As far as the pension obligations of the NSB are concerned, they need to be clarified, as far as I understand, before proceeding with competitive outsourcing. The matter is now, as the representative himself referred to, at ESA, and I assume that the Council of State will be proactive in order to get as quick a clarification as possible, so that we can get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1692	The size has decided to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. At the same time, emissions have not been reduced overall in Norway in the last 20 years. How does the Right view that the budget we are adopting in the transport sector today contributes to the reduction of emissions and that we are now taking steps to move towards the 2030 targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1697	Thank you for the question. I believe that the budget we are adopting this year, but also the budgets adopted by the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Progressive Party over the last few years, contribute to the long-term transition we need in the transport sector. It is not least to replace today’s existing vehicle fleet with zero-emission vehicles and other low-emission alternatives. There is now a faster pace in Norway than anywhere else in the world, and this trend is going to accelerate as new models emerge in different price classes on the market. What we do together on the railway, and have done on the railway for many years, is going to help us achieve the goal of more people traveling collectively, and that growth is going to come there. What we have done to strengthen Enova as an important instrument is also crucial, but not least the CO2 fund for heavy transport and other modes of transport will be important to achieve the 2030 targets. We're on our way, and together we're going to make it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1702	The representative Astrup was in broadband in the previous debate, and I want to challenge him a little, because it is right that we have agreed to use commercial operators and use public subsidies where the commercial players are not involved. I think the government has low ambitions to make sure that the commercial players don't expand, so I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and the Left were able to negotiate more. When you look at the great need for funding, you look at the applications that are every year, I think it's a little amazing that the Right, which has been clear about the importance of food development, does not contribute any more to ensuring that business outside the big cities also comes on faster networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1707	Access to broadband across the country is important for value creation across the country and for using the whole country. That's why we're giving government grants to expand broadband where it's not commercially possible to do it today. That line has been strengthened by the budgetary agreement, and everything is in 2017 at the ready for an offensive expansion in those areas that are in addition to the enormous efforts of commercial operators, which also contribute to better coverage across the country, and which are absolutely necessary to achieve our 2020 targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1712	Transport budgets have increased in the current growth period, and that is very positive. Compared to last year's budget, there are also significant increases, which are also positive. When you read the draft budget from the government, you saw that it was also a bit cut. It was a little dramatic cut, and in some areas quite significant cut. In relation to the budget last year, the government is proposing, for example: to cut the reward scheme by 440 million. kr, they propose a reduction of 383 million. kr, and they propose cut for bicycle measures of 62.5 million. kr. My question to the representative Astrup is: does not the representative Astrup have higher ambitions than that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1722	The Government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have together contributed to a significant uplift for all the areas the representative mentions. As I also mentioned in my article, the government appropriations for collective action in urban areas will be 6.3 billion. kr in the period, against SEK 1,8 billion. kr below the red-green, so that together we get a lot in all the areas mentioned. The government had high ambitions, and the Christian People's Party and the Left have helped raise those ambitions further. But there is no doubt that there has been a change of pace, even before the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, compared to previous governments. Never in the country's history has so much money been allocated to this kind of action by the state as through our excellent cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1729	There are many things I would like to discuss with Nikolai Astrup, but we have to do that another time. I'm going to challenge him on a very concrete thing that he brought up, that's the sentence that all major collective projects are going to get 50 pst. support, and that there is something the government has fixed. I am glad that the government has announced that sometime after the next election it will be given 50 pst. support for the Fornebuban and new T-Bahn tunnel in Oslo. I think we agree on that is very reasonable. But I have a very specific question: the country's most busy bus line is the 31 bus in Oslo. There is a final draft regulation, ready to be launched, partly driven by the City Council of which the Right was part before the elections, but now by the City Council after the elections. Will Nikolai Astrup be for a trip to Tonsenhagen and Linderud to get 50 pst. aid granted by the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1740	Trikk till Tonsenhagen is not a large national collective project, so I can't forge such a support. What I can say, however, is that the City Council is about to deal with the regulation plan for Fornebubanen, which they have announced will be one year late. It was to come to the city council in the fall, and they have announced that it will not come until the next harvest. It delays a very important project along the 31-bus line, because the 31-bus also goes to Fornebu as you know it. I believe that the City Council here must get ahead of its work. As far as I know, the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has good relations in that council, so perhaps he can contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1749	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1754	The Paris Agreement entered into force last month. The aim of the agreement is to limit global warming to less than a two-degree increase. Norway has committed itself to cutting emissions by 40 pst, with broad support in the United Kingdom. by 2030. Those changes will not happen on their own. Should the companies and travellers really change course, predictability and clear signals are needed. As Minister for Climate and Environment Sundtoft said to TV 2, dramatic changes in the transport sector are required to achieve this objective. Those changes don't happen by themselves. But that is not what characterises the government's proposals for the state budget for the transport sector. This year too, CO 2 emissions from the road sector are increasing, and the slowdown on the railways will continue in 2017. «It is far this country», Rolf Jacobsen wrote. And people live everywhere. It's a result of wild politics, conscious political choices. Access to basic infrastructure has made it possible to maintain residence, create values and realise opportunities throughout the country. Therefore, the current national transport plan provides a major boost for the national road network and rail. Roads bind towns and villages together. An efficient and reliable railway increases the accessibility where people live most. Good and safe roads are good for both residents and businesses. The Labour Party will bind this country, both digitally and physically. Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government will build roads around the largest cities. There is no priority for the development of air services in the districts, the market is to fix broadband across the country, and the coast is not prioritised with investment funds. The government of Stoltenberg II started the journey of time. The last time we were in opposition, we announced a systematic commitment to transportation. History shows that we have succeeded in our ambition – transport has been lifted on the political agenda, we have historically high appropriations, and we are in the process of renewing and improving the transport system throughout the country. Since 2005, there has been a systematic increase in investment for operation and maintenance in the national transport plans submitted. We have followed up with annual appropriations for the State budget. In the spring of 2013, we presented the current national transport plan. It is the most ambitious plan of the time for the renewal of the transport sector, with a growth of 50 pst. Central investments are higher investment levels, the lack of maintenance to be reduced during the period, the efficiency of planning and the better organisation of the sector. We have followed up this in Stortinget. During this ageing period, the Workers' Party's alternative budgets have been about 2.2 billion. kr higher than the government's draft budget. For 2017, the Labour Party will prioritise about 1 billion. kr more for transport and communication purposes than this government does. Well, as important as the number of dollars is that we have a different priority than the government. Increased promotion, better security, opportunities throughout the country and climate considerations underpin the Workers' Party's transport policy. For 2017, the Labour Party will ensure the launch of several important road projects around the country – in Northern Norway, in the West, in the South, in the East and in the Inland. With our budget we would get safer roads to next year. We're prioritizing 150 million. kr more than 100 million. kr more than the Government of Road Safety and 75 million. kr more than the tunnel security budget agreement. The working party takes seriously that we are a maritime nation, which has the world's second longest coastline. With the Labour Party budget, it would be 175 million. SEK more for the construction of infrastructure along the coast, 37 pst. more than the government wants to grant. With the Labour Party budget, it would be 200 million. more for broadband development where it is not commercially interesting to have it, so that businesses and people across the country are really going to be involved in the digital future. In this long country, there's a lot of road, and it's the most highway. That is why the Labour Party is giving priority to its alternative budget of 1 billion. kr more to the counties than the government. Road and collective provision is an important task for the counties and constitutes one third of their budgets. There is a particularly demanding situation in the South and West. That is why we have also proposed 250 million. kr extra to the county road in this region, with high leave. The proposal for a ferry exchange programme will also be good for the yard industry and contribute to higher employment in the South and West. Centralisation and population growth in and around the big cities will be a challenging challenge that we have to face. The climate agreement at Stortinget presupposes that all growth in passenger traffic in large cities is to be taken with public transport, more cycling and walking. This is not only a climate action, it is also necessary to ensure the promotion of commercial transport, to make cities more attractive and to ensure better air quality. The Workers' Party's proposals to the State budget have a clear strengthening of the prerequisites for success. We believe that the state should take up to 70 pst. of the investments in the major collective projects in the major cities — projects such as the T-Bahn tunnel through Oslo inner city, the Bybanen in Bergen, the superbus project in Trondheim and the bus road project in Stavanger. The reward scheme for public transport is a very important contribution to the operation of public transport in larger urban areas. The scheme stimulates better accessibility, environment and health and better provision of collective services. The Labour Party follows up its clear prioritisation of public transport and proposes 1 billion. kr more than the Government of Collective Action for 2017. The Workers' Party believes that the most important thing for the railway now is to resume delays in maintenance, invest in new tracks and buy new trains. The necessary development of the sector is possible within current structures. We can be inspired by railway countries like France, Germany, Switzerland and Austria. The government chooses to disintegrate ideological mindsets, which are supposed to split up and fragment the sector. It is not adapted to a small railway country like Norway. With the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we could therefore spend close to 1 billion. kr more on concrete railway measures than the government proposes, inter alia. because we do not spend hundreds of millions of dollars on reform costs without documented effects. With the Labour Party budget, we could reduce the maintenance run, improve punctuality and offer a more attractive train. With our budget, we could ensure the planning of important new projects for better progress, and there is room for prioritisation of several important investment projects. Now we are going into the last year with the action programme for the current transport plan, and the Council of State has stated that he wants to be measured if he has done what they should have done. For, according to the Council of State, this is: «Any dot may use money, but it requires good governance and management to implement the measures.» So what's the stand? Well, in 2013, Ketil Solvik-Olsen promised to spend 45 billion. kr more on traffic each year for the next 10 years. After four years, Ketil Solvik-Olsen is 170 billion. kr behind his own promise. It must be the break of time. Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the Advance Party promised that the toll stations would be gone, and that no toll would be required. After four years with Ketil Solvik-Olsen, there is a record in toll collection, with 37 billion. kr. The promise is broken. In 2013, the Stortinget adopted a historic trade initiative through the national transport plan of the Stoltenberg II Government. The government claims that he has overfilled it. Yes, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government have done that – in money use. According to their own numbers, they've spent about 10 billion dollars. kr more than the size envisaged. What they're not talking about is that the appropriations for New Roads account for about half of the 10 billion. SEK 4,4 billion. kr. Until now, a single meter new road has not been built by the company, and it is unclear how much of this money will be set aside for work in 2017. The council doesn't tell us that 1.3 billion. kr of the overfill is the purchase of national road haulage services, which is mainly linked to price increases. The Council of State does not say that the subsidy scheme for reduced toll tariffs has nothing to do with NTP – it is 600 million. kr not contributing to new, safer and better infrastructure in this country. The Council of State does not boast – and there is no reason to do so – of all the delays. Projects decided by the Storting should be started up during the period, which cannot be started, are: electrification of the Trønder and Meråker tracks; eleven major road projects, which are not implemented, started or completed during the period as planned; four fairway projects, which are not being launched; and six fishing ports, which have not been started. These are not small projects – all of these projects amount to over 500 million. kr. In summary, one might well say that Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government spend more money than the Storting has foreseen, to build fewer projects than the Storing has foreseen, and in longer time than the Storing assumed it would be. It is not just with regard to the national transport plan that Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government break their promises. The strong growth of the counties used for the county road under the Stoltenberg II government from 2010 onwards has declined under the government of Solberg. The fall in county roads is increasing year by year. That's now 50 pst. More likely to be killed when you drive on a country road than when you drive on a national road. It was an objective for this period to halve the planning time for larger projects. Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government are unable to show results in this area. Everyone agrees that bringing down the collection cost of tolls is important. The best measure to make it mandatory for all vehicles. This work was to be carried out when the piece instructions for heavy-duty vehicles were in place. Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government have not followed up that work. The development of costs for the construction of large infrastructure projects has been a concern over a long period of time, which was also addressed by the representative of Astrup. It is essential to have good control of large projects and taxpayers’ money and how they are used. Only during November of this year has it emerged in the media – that's where we have to read about it, because we don't get information from the Council of State – that there are cost gaps that are higher than the extra 10 billion. kr granted in addition to NTP. I mention three examples: the Arna–Bergen railway project, which goes up close to 3 billion. kr., tunnel safety regulation, which exceeds 2 billion. kr, and Rogfast, with around 5 br. NOK in the amount of the cost. These are just three examples. In the railway area, we can take the double-track Oslo-Ski, which has increased by nearly 5 billion. kr. The Council of State has said: "I want to measure whether we did what we were supposed to do, not just that we were wasting the money." When the voters are going to take the verdict, I'm not quite sure they think Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government did what they were supposed to do. With this I also address the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1812	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1819	New Weier AS has contributed to many innovations in road construction, including: new forms of contract involving contractors in the past, they regulate wider lines, providing greater flexibility for contractors and thus cutting costs, they standardise more of the development, they use total contractor prices that provide slimmer construction organisations, etc. Does the representative see that diversity and competition can have added value in this sector as well, or does he believe that the state road services have a monopoly on good ideas in the area of road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1824	I have previously said, as the representative of Astrup has also heard, that there are several of the things that the road company Nye Veier does, which are good grips, among other things. challenge the standard of how we build roads. I think that's an example of a good thing. However, what distinguishes the Workers' Party and the Right in this case is related to the fact that we believe that this is also possible in a different way than to organise it as a limited liability company. A limited liability company is a form of corporation governed primarily by commercial law and not by public authority. The Labour Party believes that building national roads in this country is a government task — a government task. It should also be essentially within the sphere of public authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1831	Now I don't know if the representative Sivertsen is very happy with tolls, or whether he primarily wants tolls. But most people – including the voters of the Workers' Party – are not very satisfied with a lot of tolls. As a result, the Progress Party is working daily to reduce bomb tariffs and to remove toll stations, so that the burden on the Norwegian people goes down. In connection with the 2017 state budget, we have added 500 million. kr to cut the bomb tariffs by 10 pst. The Labour Party has not put in such a bomb discount, but when today's debate is over and the state budget is adopted with the votes of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it is a majority of 10 pst. Discount. I wonder if the representative Sivertsen and the Workers' Party will contribute to positive cooperation with the county councils and the government to give the people this extra bomb discount, or would the Workers' Party want to block out for the drivers to get such a nice little gift for Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1840	As I said in my post, the most important thing to bring down the cost of toll collection here in the country is to introduce a mandatory piece for all vehicles. It's the representative Johnsen and his government against it. If it is one of the most important tasks of the representative Johnsen is to bring down the tolls on the drivers in this country, then I have to say that the representative is doing a terrible job. Never has it been demanded so much toll. Projects have not been submitted here in Stortinget without toll funding. The working party is committed to bringing down the bureaucracy, and the mechanism to which the representative refers is only a bureaucratic mechanism to apply for the wound in retrospect. If it is so that the representative Johnsen and the government would have thought that there would be less toll, they should put forward propositions with more government funding, and not come and patch up the propositions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1847	The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have achieved the renewal in the road sector that has taken place through the majority's decision in this period, along with increased appropriations. I feel that the Workers' Party has largely criticised most of the new initiatives taken in the transport sector, but I record that in one area, the Workers' Party has been committed to creating a change – and that is when it comes to reducing the time required for planning processes. What is the Workers' Party's grip to reduce the time it takes to plan new transport routes, whether for road or rail?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1855	Let me start by congratulating Mr Gruvan on a good negotiating result for the transport sector. I am very pleased that the budgetary agreement he achieved with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left is approaching the Workers' Party's priorities of public transport, rail and meeting the climate challenges. With regard to the question of half-life planning, which was a target in the current transport plan, a number of measures are identified. It's about how to use the tools set out in the Planning Act. There, government authorities, local authorities and action holders can make it much more effective. We are to use more government plan, as also specified in the current national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1862	One of the things we are looking at after this period is that bureaucracy has grown a lot — including in the transport sector. Reforms and other interventions have given rise to quite a number of jobs linked to them, and not to expansion. What will the Workers' Party do to bring down the bureaucratic growth that we see, so that we can spend the money on what they're going to spend – investment in the way, in the way, in the way and in other good transportation measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1867	What is at least clear that we do not want to spend money on are poorly thought out reforms that are ideologically justified and not knowledge-based. We do not need to get to Stortinget and push through reforms with urgency, without the Stortinget having time to discuss them properly. In our alternative budget, we have been very clear, for example. in the case of rail, that we want to shift the use of money – from reorganization in the sector to concrete things. Among other things, we address the maintenance seat suspension that is on the railway. Where the government decides to continue the lag that is, into next year, we want to spend more money – as the government spends on reforms – to build rails, to upgrade the signalling systems, and to offer travellers a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1874	Just to correct the last representative said: I think the aftermath on the railway has helped the Left, along with the government parties, to bring it down. In this period, we've actually had the lag, so I don't think the last answer was completely correct. But to my real question, we have had some reforms along with the government parties, among others. On the right track, which I just heard now that the representative Sivertsen also saw some positive ones. After the 2013 elections, I also noted that a number of actors who are here today said that there was also a need to take action in the railway sector, because there was a need for reorganisation. The actors themselves asked for this. Then we've gone and made a reform, on the right track, which I think will be to meet tomorrow. But there are two things I'm still a little uncertain about: Does the Labour Party see anything positive about this? And if they think that this is ripping wrong, does it mean – if they might win the power – that they intend to reverse both reforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1881	Let me start with the backtrack on the railway. What I referred to was the government's proposal, where the government itself writes in its proposition that you will not decrease the backlog on maintenance. I would also like to congratulate the representative Raja on having negotiated a good agreement, which is approaching the Workers' Party on the railway side, where one can actually take it back – as envisaged by the National Transport Plan. Here we have common interests, and there's no big difference. Norway is a small railway country. Railways have important functions in some areas, primarily as passenger transport in urban areas and for concentrated freight flows, and then there is a potential to take even more goods with the growth we see in the future. But making this a big organizational exercise is not the right medicine. It is much more important for the Workers' Party to invest money in rails and new trains and thus ensure a better offer for the freight forwarders and travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1888	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1893	Today, we are dealing with the 2017 Transport Budget – an important document that adds to the upgrading of important transport years throughout the country. Throughout the current period, civil cooperation parties each year have shown that transport is a high priority and important area. Every year, a record high budget allocation has been slightly higher after the budgetary comparisons. This transport budget reaches a record 67 billion. kr. This testifies to an offensive bet, to the joy of most people also in 2017. With this budget agreement, there will be about 10 billion. kr above the applicable national transport plan. But it's not just about how much money you give. Equally important is how to use the money smarter to get more out of the dollars used. I am therefore pleased that the majority, at government and cooperation parties, have adopted two fundamental and important reforms in order to build and operate smarter, namely rail reform and road reform. The purpose is to be able to strengthen the offer of the country's travellers, whether on the way or on the road. The results so far also show us that we get more road and traffic again for the money. Maintenance and renewal are probably as important as showing some new lines you can cut strings on. Now there is a civil board, which shows that the stakes on maintenance are record high. The due time is over, and new solutions are being rolled out continuously – against the Labour Party's votes. We think it's as important to take care of the infrastructure we have as building new ones. That's why we're building down the maintenance run for both road and rail. When the government, together with the cooperation parties, grants so much money for the maintenance of our infrastructure, it is because it is imperative after eight years of red-green decay – and every year in their reign. In order to ensure good road safety, a good road surface is essential, and well-maintained rail provides fewer service interruptions and fewer delays for trains, precisely to make everyday commuting easier and smoother by ensuring predictability. Since the Right-Fremskritsparte government joined, the appropriations for road and track increased by 50 pst, or approximately 20 billion. kr. The need is great. Our main modes of transport are weakly developed. The State budget for 2017 makes an important contribution to the further development of double-track rail and a high-speed road network linking the parts of the country. We build the road network faster, now that the road company is established. Subsidiary and shared development is replaced by more comprehensive development of the transport corridors. The Party of Progress and the Government are reducing the use of tolls in new road projects. The State budget now establishes a compensation scheme for toll projects that will reduce the rates of established toll projects to the delight of the country’s drivers. This government takes important and necessary steps to improve the efficiency of the tolling sector. From the beginning of 2017, agreements will be concluded on an ongoing basis to ensure that the large amount of bomb companies we have today is reduced to only five. The administration costs have to go down, and that, in combination with 500 million. kr for the reduction of bomb tariffs, will mean a more reasonable everyday life for the districts and businesses in particular, which depend entirely on the car. The changes we make in the one-off charge make family cars with low emissions available to more people. This is good for road safety and lower emissions. The 2017 State budget reduces car charges and tolls, while increasing road investment and reducing the level of maintenance. We're showing by this that it's possible to do more good grips at the same time. For example, in 2012, the Planning Resources of the Workers' Party amounted to approximately 50 million for rail purposes. kr for the whole country. That was their vision. For the 2017 budget, rail planning resources will be on a staggering 1.7 billion. according to the budgetary agreement with the cooperation parties. This is more in planning funds in one year than the red-greens provided over the entire four-year period in NTP. There should be no doubt as to which parties actually deliver offensive bets. This government delivers an offensive effort on public transport, and the efforts are reinforced by the negotiations with the Left and Christian People's Party here in Stortinget. This budget now grants approximately 1.3 billion. kr to strengthen the provision of public services in cities. This is more than what the red-green delivered in four years. The Progress Party has always believed that transport policy should be resolved with carrots and not whips, which is what this budget is all about. We need to ensure that public transport becomes attractive, rather than punishing those who depend on the car. It is a good and important social profile that must continue. Most people don't choose the car because they think it's fun, but because they have to. This must mean that we must ensure a carrot policy rather than a whip in this area. The opposition in this room is quick to criticise when the government proposes necessary changes and reforms to the sector. Although it produces results, they want to stop these changes. I hope that during this debate we can get an answer to what their alternative solutions are. I've asked the question before, but I guess we're getting rhetoric instead of politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1928	The Government Party has a desire to sell Avinor, Fly train, Mesta and NSB, with a competitive deployment of all routes. In their comments to the current NTP, the party of progress wrote that they would like Avinor's monopoly on their services to be abolished, that the enterprise would be privatised, split or sold, and that the State would put up with the greatest possible degree of competition in the area. On 1 November 2016, the operation stopped at Rygge Airport, and a competitor of Avinor was then gone. Does the current spokesperson of the Progress Party think that the government is on the right track and that this is the policy which the government should pursue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1935	The Progress Party believes competition is healthy, as shown by the road reform, the road company, the rail reform and the new company for trains. I still believe that competition is also good in the air. I think we should be happy that it is not just one airline operating in Norway. It's also competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1940	The Progress Party, together with the other parties on the Stortinget, has been concerned with improving the efficiency of the toll collection. Mandatory toll bar was introduced for vehicles above 3,5 tonnes from 1 January 2015. The introduction of a mandatory toll bar for all vehicles will undoubtedly be the measure which results in the greatest reduction in the collection costs. In addition, it will also allow for differentiated payments based on time and emissions. Why does the Progress Party choose to reject such an effective measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1948	The progress team said yes to introducing a heavy-duty bomb. It is precisely in order to ensure a level playing field with regard to foreign transport and cabotage, and it is important for industry and for any industry itself. The Progress Party is opposed to introducing even more toll payments and raising the price even more. I hope the Christian People's Party is also concerned about keeping that cost as low as possible for people the most, and not making it as expensive as possible for business and people the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1955	This fall we have learned a new word: phase shift. Does that mean you have to push on the project, or are you going to use the toll-only project? What's in it? In addition, road investment cuts. How does it fit in with what the representative said in his statement, that you want the most complete expansion possible, and not the piecefully divided?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1962	I am uncertain whether I understood the question from the central party representative quite correctly, but the Progress Party is at least for us to build projects, and that is the end date that counts, and not when we start. We're also because you can spend the money smarter. It has not been said that it is the money that decides, but it is actually when you finish a project, and how it eventually becomes, that is important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1969	I know the representative of the Stordalen, and I know that he has a commitment also to the railway and the collective effort. I guess it was a little sad when the budget proposal from the government came and there was a cut of 383 million. kr to railway and 400 mill. kr to collective and bicycle. I assume that the joy must have been great when a budget agreement was put in place that helped to raise both railway investments, operations and maintenance, and not least the investment in public transport. If you look forward, my question to the representative is: How committed will the Advance Party be to the NTP coming, and the question of building external intercity all the way to Skien, Halden and Lillehammer? Where does the representative Stordalen stand in this, and where will the Progress Party be when it comes to that question? Will it also be a little sad, what then comes from the Progress Party, and that we will have to bring joy to the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1976	I do not fully agree with the premises that Abid Raja raises in the question, because there is no cut in the appropriations for railway planning. It was an increase of 1.3 billion. NOK in total for 2017, and then it is absolutely correct that with the four games at Stortinget another 280 million was negotiated. kr for intercity planning. There should be no doubt that I am still going to work to plan intercity to get up the frequencies, but to the entire network, in line with the plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1981	I have a very simple question for Stordalen. There has been a lot of talk about the climate impact of this budget, and I have the short, simple and concrete question: Is it important for Morten Stordalen that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway be cut by 50 pst. in the transport sector by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1986	In the Progress Party, we are dedicated to using a carrot policy, as I said in my post. That means that we don't have to punish drivers when there's new technology coming, when you fix it. You don't have to make it more expensive or more difficult for business. Technology solves the effects of emissions quite well. I also think you should use some common sense in some cities, that you can wash streets instead, be concerned with the local environment. Maybe that's one of the most important things we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e1991	The cord shift is over. It's about 3:00. The President shall state that the called alternates, for the Hedmark counties, the Rangdi Krogstad, and for the Hordaland counties, Charlotte Spurkeland, are now taking their seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2005	Safe and efficient roads are important for people and businesses throughout the country. The transport sector needs to be renewed. Journey days shall be safer, more efficient and environmentally friendly. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the political majority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, have made sure to adopt the necessary reforms for both the road and the track. Structural changes in how we finance, plan and build roads and pathways in Norway have been called for for a long time, and it was high time to put in place the necessary decisions to enable the sector to be renewed, as the Christian People's Party has programmed and called for a long time. Prosperity is a fundamental need in the districts and urban areas, for businesses and individuals in everyday life, including people with disabilities. Investment in infrastructure is investment in future quality of life, development and value creation. Under the red-green government, the transport sector suffered from a lack of resources and unforeseeable framework conditions, with increasing road and rail delays and failure to provide collective services as a result. Railways must be improved through reform, renewal and not least increased appropriations. It is very important to keep pace with the planning of both internal and external intercity development. That is why it has been important for the Christian People's Party to get an impact on increased appropriations for rail in the 2017 budget, with 280 million. kr is set aside for the planning of routes in the intercity area. In the budgetary agreement we have with the Left and the Government parties, there is a further approx. 300 million. DKK set aside to reduce the maintenance set-aside in 2017. This means that the maintenance run on the railway will be further reduced in 2017, as was also done in the current year. Many on - road users have to live with race - prone roads on a daily basis. It is a burden on the individual and can lead to a high level of insecurity in everyday life. While the national road maintenance run has been reduced each of the last few years, a different degree of slowing down on the county roads is taking place again. It also applies to the racial security maintenance. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, it has been a priority task to contribute to re-establishing some of the aftermath in this field, and we are pleased that the allocation for the purpose has increased by 50 million. in the budgetary agreement between the four cooperation parties in relation to the Government's proposals. The transfer of goods from road to sea is important in order to improve accessibility, improve road transport safety and reduce the overall impact of the transport sector on climate and the environment. The 2015 freight analysis shows the transfer potential of goods from road to other modes of transport. Here it was identified that the transfer potential of goods from road to sea and track is between 5 and 7 million. tonnes. This corresponds to over 20 pst. of the transport work on the road. Furthermore, the freight analysis shows that if the transfer potential is fully exploited, one in three trucks could be removed from the roads. During the year there will be 300000 trucks between the major cities and over the Svinesund. Road transport also poses a greater risk of accidents, injuries and fatalities in traffic. At the same time it leads to increased air and noise pollution. Road transport leads to increased wear and tear on the road network and the need for capacity is high in terms of maintenance and investment in the road network. A ship may carry load volumes corresponding to several hundred trailers, causing only a fraction of the emissions. In addition, road transport provides unnecessary queues and time costs that may impair the competitiveness of industry. The Christian People's Party has promoted and adopted a number of proposals in Stortinget in the last two years that will contribute to the transport of goods from road to sea. I show you, among other things: to the draft representative on a short sea shipping strategy to strengthen the framework conditions of short sea shipping, where it became a majority to ask the government in the 2017 budget to make concrete proposals that will stimulate more owners of goods to follow the sea. The Christian People’s Party has also made proposals for measures to move more freight from country to sea, Document 8:40 S for 2014-2015, and a majority of the proposals to ask the government for a temporary subsidy scheme for the transfer of freight to companies that choose to use maritime transport rather than land transport. We are therefore pleased that the government is following up on the draft budget for 2017 by now establishing this new subsidy scheme for freight transfers, in line with the proposal. But we believe that the amount proposed is too low, and we are therefore satisfied that, in the agreement between the cooperation parties, we increased the amount from 30 million. NOK 82 million. kr. The extended TT scheme is intended for those who cannot use ordinary public transport as an alternative to public travel and their own car. For visually impaired persons and others with strong sensory impairments, the TT system is important in order to be able to live a normal active everyday life. We have noticed that there are great variations between the states, and many people experience today's system as deficient. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that in the 2016 budget we were able to see through to the establishment of a national TT system for users with special needs. For 2017, in our alternative budget, we have proposed to strengthen the scheme with a further 22.6 million. kr for the second half of 2017, which also became part of the budgetary union of the four batches. This is about all people's right to participate in society in the same way as others. It's about creating an inclusive society for everyone, where everyone has the same right to experience being part of the community – a right that bases the very basic value that all people have the same value. It makes sense when experiences are disseminated from those who have taken part in the new scheme, about how life was experienced before, and about how life was made with a new system. I quote from one who experienced this through the increased grant that we received in 2016: «I also admire my visually impaired friends around the country! It can't be described what a feeling it is to be able to get some of the impulsive life back. Now it's over with the famous hat in your hand, now it's tossed on the shelf! Great to be able to call the door surprisingly to friends and family without having to plan. Greet a grateful Rita from East Agder." With the 2017 addition, people in new counties are given the same opportunity as Rita was given. It should be a goal that by 2020 we have managed to bring about the same system for everyone, no matter what county you live in. There is a need for a significant rise in road safety performance. Greater demand for road safety in the population needs to be motivated, and greater attention needs to be paid to local road safety work in municipalities and counties. Safe Traffic plays an important role in road safety and does a great job, especially among children and young people. It is very important to teach children and young people safe behaviour in traffic. This need is further reinforced by the fact that in the coming years there has also been a strong growth in traffic. Traffic awareness training and driving will become increasingly important in the future. Attitude-making and prevention of road safety is a long-term and demanding work that requires effort over time. It is therefore necessary for the State to contribute to strengthening the safety of traffic, and we are pleased that there was an agreement on a small increase of 2 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. The local road safety contribution scheme shall contribute to the strengthening of local road safety work under the auspices of non-governmental organisations and municipalities. In 2015, it was allocated a total of 4 million. SEK to 14 different actions under the direction of municipalities, organisations and other actors. These measures include minor infrastructure measures and road-related measures. This type is very important to strengthen road safety work at the local level, and we are pleased that we were able to double the allocation in relation to the government's original proposal, from 4 million. NOK 8 million. kr. Broadband is an important part of the infrastructure. A well-developed high-capacity broadband creates new opportunities for decentralised jobs throughout Norway. We are therefore pleased that the four cooperation parties agreed to reverse the government’s proposed cut to this important infrastructure measure through an increase of 45 million. kr, so that the level from 2016 can be continued. When we know how much engagement in dollars and ears the public broadband funds create in the form of new bets from the broadband companies themselves, $8.6 billion. kr in 2015, this increase is very well spent money to ensure more people good communication opportunities. We have received a budget for 2017 that contributes to the promotion, road safety and increased value creation across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2042	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2047	On 1 April 2017, new routes will be launched on the Short Track Network in Nord-Trøndelag and Nord-Norway, the so-called FOT routes. New tenders have been put in place and new criteria have been put in place. The result is that it has led to some changes, which in turn have led to a good deal of noise in this part of the country. It goes on that there have been new schedules, there have been fewer planes, there have been other times. Some of this we were well aware of could already happen when the tender criteria were available, and they criticised it, but they met that it was only pure black paint. And we're now going to see the result. There's a lot of noise in this part of the country. One of those things is the criteria for sending out the new timetables to be consulted. It took the department away, so it doesn't happen anymore. In the budget available, is there a proposal to reintroduce that practice, and then I wonder why the Christian People's Party will not agree to reverse that practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2055	The short-haul network is a very important offer for District Norway. Where one does not have rail or other collective services, it is important to facilitate that the population and not least the business community have a good offer for long and shorter distances. With regard to the results of this year's bidding round, we have also recorded in the Christian People's Party that there has been some dissatisfaction that the routes have been laid out in a way that does not work effectively for the population that it is to transport, the shortest path and the shortest distance. The Christian People's Party will follow up on what happens in connection with this award, and if we see that there is a need to change the routines at the next round, we will be open to consider any consultation round at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2062	The budget is about prioritizing between many purposes, an exercise politicians might seem to be both demanding and sometimes not by the funniest tasks. I guess we've seen that in this budget inquiry. But just as well: in this round we see that the party of Count Countess, the Christian People's Party, chose to join a proposal that they initially opposed, and then I think of the 500 million. to reduce the tolling rates which would make it much easier for the drivers. The result we see is something else. That means that the drivers hit here actually get a bigger cut, because you change the commuter deduction at the same time, you've done that in this big time period, and you're reducing the mileage compensation. So a commuter that depends on a car gets more costs. We see that someone spends money on it instead of maintaining grants for hospitals. Is the representative Groevan satisfied with this priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2069	With regard to the toll compensation, I can only show that this was not part of the Christian People's Party's primary proposal. Nor did we vote in favour of it primarily when we voted on the 2017 budget. We've been in a deal, where we feel that it's important to see things in a whole and a context. At the same time, I would say that the car package was slightly altered by the final vote, where one also added a flat CO 2 tax, which means that it does not just favour fossil cars. Then I would like to add that I hope that one – when one chooses these routes to get this toll reduction – is careful to choose regions in the districts that allow this to primarily benefit the people in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2079	In several of the alternative budgets of the opposition, it has been suggested that the road carrier New Vegar be either closed or, as in the option of the Workers' Party, that one removes 10 pst. the financing. What meaning would my representative have for Norwegian road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2086	There is no doubt that this kind of reduction is not what our country needs. This means delays in planned and strategically important tribal road sections that have been waiting for a long time. This applies in the country I represent, but it also applies in all the parts of the country in which New Veger has been allocated a regular road portfolio. It's a lot of accident-stricken distances that can't build up their good solutions. We also see that it goes beyond the value creation. As far as my part of the country is concerned, I can say that there is something you need, there are tasks and new activities for the entrepreneurial sector in the context of the loss of many jobs in the oil and gas sectors. I think such a reduction will be a great disappointment both in my part of the country and across the country. So it's a bad idea to promote value creation and road development across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2095	Now I don't have the habit of making lines to good partners, but I couldn't stop myself today. I noticed that the representative of Gruvan said that there was no cut of 0.5 billion. tolls in the alternative budget – no. But the representative has been very clear that he wants to lower the toll pressure and the cost of the new E39 built by Nye Veier. In this context, I would like to challenge the representative in terms of directing his representatives to the local city councils and local councils, because where the Progress Party has just made proposals to increase the collection time, lower possible calculation technical interest rates, coordination between the various toll systems, etc. That is true of the Christian People's Party. What does the representative think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2104	As far as tolls are concerned, of course, we are concerned that, in addition to tolls being part of the financing of road development in Norway, it is important that they be perceived as fair and relevant. We have, in several toll proposals in Stortinget, just helped to extend the payment period in order to get a lower rate for each toll service, and we have helped to look at a difference in interest rates between what is called the interest rate on calculation and the market rate. These are measures that the Christian People's Party will look at further. In addition, we know that for the routes for which New Roads are responsible, they will be concerned about possible cost reductions. Here we have several measures that we want to support in the future in the Stortinget, and we also recommend that it be followed up in the regions and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2115	The latest figures from the Central Statistical Office show the same thing as the information from the Norwegian Petroleum Institute, namely that emissions from road transport are rising, and emissions from the transport sector are rising. In connection with this latest budget in the field of transport from this period, I will ask the representative to reflect on how he feels when he has been involved in replacing a government that had a drop in CO 2 emissions, with a government that has led a policy that has led to an increase in emissions. After these years, is the representative satisfied with what he has been given since he personally has been committed to just getting this government in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2125	The Christian People's Party is committed to achieving the climate goals of 40 p.m. reduction by 2030. We believe that through measures such as: are in favour of the 2017 budget – a strong commitment on rail, collective, urban environmental agreements, urban packages – we contribute to facilitating the future achievement of this objective by reducing climate change emissions. We also believe that, through the electric car policy that we are behind, we will contribute to achieving in 2025 the goal of all new cars being electric cars, by continuing the benefits we have today. So I think that those measures – although we do not see the effects of everyone today – we will see the effects of the years to come. We are laying a foundation through the budget we are adopting today for the transport sector in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2136	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2141	The center party will build the country further. Involvement in transport is an important tool for putting the whole country into use. Food and transport policy is a hand in hand. We're shrinking the country with good infrastructure projects. It is important in long-term Norway, which has a residence and large production of goods and services around the country. Good transport solutions mean a lot to people's everyday lives, whether we're talking about road, rail, sea, air traffic, the bike path to school or the digital highway. For the Central Party, the most important step is to follow up the National Transport Plan that we agreed on in 2013. The government follows up a lot, but it's a little bit missing before you've met all the levels. But there are some negative results of the proposal the government itself has initiated. The centre party believes that there is a need to strengthen racial protection beyond what the government proposes. That's why we're strengthening it by 200 million. kr. This is one of the areas where the government does not follow up well enough — both in terms of the national transport plan and the fact that it is raging more often than before and in new places. Racial protection contributes to the promotion and security of both business transport, school children and daily travellers. There's no good feeling to fear for when the next race goes. The centre party also considers that removing bottlenecks will contribute to the predictability of business. It's an important grip, and that's why we're proposing increased appropriations, half a billion dollars in addition to the government's proposals for investment. It makes it possible to provide some strategically important road sections that the government has not followed up adequately. Furthermore, we propose a pot of 100 million. kr to remove bottlenecks for the transport of timber and food. Furthermore, we believe that the county councils are making a great effort to maintain and build new roads. As a result, the Centre Party proposes increased appropriations for county roads, increased frameworks and increased loss compensation for changes in a non-contributory income system. Good transport solutions are important for people and businesses, whether in the case of buses, ferries, speedboats or better country roads. The centre part will have more goods on the track and cool. Too much goods are being transported on the road. That is why we are proposing a reinforced allocation to the railways, to electrification and to several crossing tracks. There are important measures to ensure better regularity for freight operators. Another area where government has lowered its priorities is coastal infrastructure measures, in particular linked to the short sea shipping strategy. We have a long coastline in Norway, and the sea route needs to be used more strongly. The central party considers it important to provide port development and strengthen the incentive mechanism. This scheme must be continued in a long-term perspective. The commuters - what wrong have they done? They have not received good framework conditions from this government. We've added increased rates. We have put in several measures to give them better conditions. As part of the Centre Party's initiative on commuters, we want an action plan for access parking. Better exchange between car and public transport is necessary to improve the accessibility of large urban areas. Collective solutions and organised transport solutions, TT, are important throughout the country, and therefore we are establishing a new system for collective transport in the districts, and we want to strengthen the pilot scheme for organised transport with a double. Climate: the transport sector must contribute to addressing climate and environmental challenges. The centre batch wants new and effective solutions to reduce the emission of hazardous environmental gases in cities. This has long been a problem during winter in cold days, especially in Oslo and Bergen. Goods transport must go every day and cannot be reduced by offensive use of road pricing. We are therefore proposing a new subsidy scheme for lorries and lorries where the plan is to cover additional costs by using new, zero-emission technologies in the areas described above. We'll give you 100 million. Add kr. The NO x fund of industry has been a success. That's why we think it's positive what the Christian People's Party and the Left have got in place there. The centre party wants to go further and points to a 1-billion-dollar grant. NOK of the tax revenue from the CO 2 tax as a start-up grant to the fund, and we assume that this contribution is used to trigger a faster conversion of Norwegian heavy transport. The centre party believes that a reinforced broadband bet is required and not what is currently in place. We're proposing 200 million. in addition to the government's proposal to meet the digital everyday life. Air transport accounts for an important part of passenger transport in this long-distance country. In some regions, this is the only real option, and it is quite critical when you look at how the new offer for Namdalen and North Norway has become. People are very dissatisfied with what is available. The general budget of the Centre Party for Transport is a proposal for living towns, green cities and small differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2180	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2185	Through the government's budget, we see that after four years, the funds for securing the state and state roads have been decentralized. After four years, there is only 90 pst. of the level taken into account in the red-green national transport plan, and racial protection is obviously not important enough for this government. The goal of the National Racial Protection Group to secure all Norwegian roads against race by 2030 has become more difficult years for this blue-blue government. Then my question to the representative Sjelmo Nordås of the Zenterpartiet is: Is she satisfied with the government's efforts to secure Norwegian roads against race?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2192	No, obviously not. We now see that it rages more often, has been more unpredictable, there are many places in the Racial Protection Action Plan that are being delayed, and the counties report that there is a need for more. The same applies to the national road. So the short and conceptual answer is, no, I think it should have been granted significantly more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2197	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Nordås. However, on the other hand, both the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s view is that the framework transfers to county municipalities are the main means of ensuring the necessary operation, maintenance and investment on the county roads. We see that today's government is under-funding the county councils, with the result that the county roads are the ones that suffer, and that the maintenance seat run on the county roads is also increasing. When the transport centres and Avinor presented their planning basis to the NTP, the agencies proposed to set up their own programme to re-enter the county roads. Does the Central Party believe that such a programme, in addition to strong and good framework transfers, is necessary to re-enter the county roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2204	The county councils have been good road owners, but they get too bad a framework to actually take the roof that they see is necessary. Framework transfer to county municipalities is essential to provide a bottom-up funding for rural investment, but also to ensure the collective provision of very many county municipalities. I come from a part of the country where speedboats and ferries are incredibly important, and with the system we now have, it's hard to finance it well enough without having to cut school. A separate program for the county roads I think might be a sensible way to go. I see clearly that we need to have the same ambitions in order to resume the maintenance run on the county road, which we have on our national road. It's getting too bad, so far. I'm very pleased that the floors have pointed that out, and that's one thing that we have to raise to the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2211	During all eight years of red-green government, the Centre Party had the Minister of Transport, and throughout this period the maintenance movement increased both on the road and on the road. In the budgets for 2015, 2016 and 2017, this trend is reversed, and for the first time in many years, the decline is now decreasing, both on the national and rail roads. Much of the delay is in tunnels, and in 2007 the tunnel regulation was adopted. At the end of 2013, only 7 out of 224 tunnels were repaired or started to be repaired. Does the representative of Sjelmo Nordås realize that this work should have started much earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2218	Maintenance is a matter on which one must constantly focus, both for road and for rail. The maintenance run on county roads was probably considerably larger than anyone expected. When you have little money to spend on maintenance, the maintenance kit is only going to be bigger years a year, and that's exactly why it's so important, what I had in the previous line: that you have ambitions to resume the maintenance kit run, also on the county road network. With regard to the tunnel regulations, it is probably the case that today's government also does not follow up on the need for funds. So there we are really in the same boat, and there's something the Storting must promise in common to make sure that the tunnels actually get good enough standard forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2225	The Christian People's Party believes that through the railway reform, we create a railway that makes more people choose to use the train. This applies to individuals, but also to owners of goods. Together with a strong increase in the appropriations for both planning, investment and maintenance, the reform will help more people travel collectively, and I believe that at least the Central Party shares the objective. But the centre party has chosen to stand outside the reform, and then my question is: What action does the centre party have to take in order for the railway to become more attractive to more travellers and to more owners of goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2230	The centre party was very clear in the treatment of the railway reform and thought it was wrong to take. We want a fully integrated railway, with which the major railway countries in Europe have been very successful. Instead of splitting up, we want to get together, and instead of getting more directors to pay the salary, we want to be involved both in investments and in maintaining the railway. I think just the grips that are needed for people to have faith in the railway are that trains go when they are going, and that the freight forwarders have predictability that it is safe enough to send their goods on the railway. So a fully integrated railway is the solution of the Center Party. That is what we proposed at the last reading, and we will also propose that on later occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2235	One tries to doubt whether the backlog under the previous government increased or went down – I have noted several questions from some representatives from the red-green side where one tries to doubt it. I think we have to agree that the maintenance run on the road and the railway increased during the previous government, and it is during the current period that you have actually got it dragged down. That's what all the actors say, that's what they're counting on. That politicians are trying to turn that around, I think we deserve very little credit. I know that the representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås is very concerned about the districts. I thought I would take the opportunity to ask a question about the big cities. What are the three main steps taken by the Central Party to maximise traffic congestion in the largest cities of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2242	First, I don't agree with the entrance to Abid Q. Raja's question. But I'm going to focus on the big cities, because I think there's a lot of things you should do. One is to have good collective action available, which we have been engaged in, and in today's national transport plan, both urban environmental agreements and means of reward were provided as part of it. Then I have just referred to the fact that we want a subsidy scheme to shift a lot of goods transport to more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly solutions, for which we have had a proposal. I believe that a CO 2 fund for heavy transport is also a good grip, and we have also proposed an attempt at pricing that we think might be interesting to try, for example. in one of the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2251	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2256	Transport and communication are one of the areas of activity of the Left because good communication binds our long-term country together. It creates ground for business and value creation. The main priority of the left's transport policy is to intensify the development of competitive infrastructure for environmentally friendly and resource-efficient freight and passenger transport. Both now and in the years ahead, one of the most important national tasks we have is to work to ensure a safe and environmentally friendly transport system for everyone. Norway has undertaken to cut greenhouse gas emissions through the climate agreements and the Paris Agreement. In 2015, we also joined the EU's climate goals of cutting 40 pst. by 2030. If we are to achieve this – and the other objectives – it must be cut in all sectors, both quota and non-quota, and it must also be cut nationally. The transport sector represents a large emission source and accounts for almost one third of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Unlike industry, which reduced emissions by 38 pst. between 1990 and 2014, emissions to the transport industry increased by 24 pst. during the same period. These developments must be reversed and the emissions from the transport sector must be drastically reduced in time. The left shows with its alternative budget that we want to follow up the goals we have set in terms of climate. We spend even more on rail, even more on public transport, bicycles and meals than the budget agreement provides. We would like to get even more, but we believe that we got a lot, and that the government's budgetary options have been significantly improved in the agreement they made with us and with the Christian People's Party. It is important and good that climate and environment are high on the agenda. Nevertheless, it is important for the Left to emphasise that the focus on collective, bicycle and walking is not only appropriate for the climate and local environment in cities and districts, but also of great importance for road safety. Many children are driven to school and kindergarten every day because they lack walking and cycling paths – it is dangerous crossing, and many children have to cross heavily trafficked roads. We can't have it that way. Increased use of bicycles and bicycles is good for the environment, it is good for public health, and that is good for road safety. Last year I got the pleasure of cycling from Lindesnes to Nordkapp, and I have seen many of these dangerous walking and cycling trails as Norwegian children travel all over the long country. It is a large area where politicians have for a long time failed, and I believe that here it is a great aftermath that rests on the current government, but also on future governments to resume. If we are to achieve the objectives of more people going, cycling or using public transport, this must also be facilitated. We have to expand public transport, we have to build up bike routes continuously, and we have to organize pedestrians. It does not help us to build bicycle paths that we politicians define as safe – they must also be perceived as safe by road users. We have to put the road users in the center when we develop the transport system. Otherwise, we'll never succeed in achieving our goals. If we are to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, it is necessary to step up efforts in the field of public transport, and the state must take more responsibility. If the traffic growth in our cities is to be taken from our collective, bicycle and times, we must increase the transfer to our cities through the reward scheme. We're going to reach the goal of 40 pst. In the transport sector by 2030, we must also make demands for fossil-free public transport. Although the Left thinks it is good that the state now covers 50 pst. of cost-intensive investments in necessary infrastructure in the four largest cities, such as: The fornebuban, we believe that it must be done even more in the future. Cities are not economically able to make the necessary promises to meet the traffic challenges in an environmentally friendly way. Increased government funding helps cities to increase public transport efforts. Many important projects need to be implemented in the next few years, and the Left wants, among other things. the investigation and planning of rail traffic on Ullandhaug in Stavanger and Lower Rome. With regard to the Fornebuban, I believe that all the citizens who commute and live in that region are starting to get a little tired of politicians who have promised for many years that the Fornebuban will be realized, and that year after year it will be trained and delayed. Now – again – we know that the politicians in Oslo have not contributed to keeping progress. The left is also concerned with good roads because it is important for good accessibility between regions and for increased value creation, development and viable districts and to meet business transport needs. The left considers that both the road network and the main road network need to have a higher standard. Part of Norway is exposed to a lot of weather and it affects its transport systems. The left is concerned that it should be put on slip protection and that the infrastructure being built in the future should be robust to tackle the climate of today and the future. If we are to reach the zero vision and reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic, the transport system must be designed to promote safe behaviour while at the same time protecting against the fatal consequences of dangerous driving. We have to build several middle parts, rumbling fields and so-called forgiving road with cleared side terrain. We have to bet on driver training, we have to get more goods across on sea and rail, and more of passenger traffic on rail and public transport. Today's railway is curved and old and characterized by instability, technical defects and climatic stresses. That is why the Left is pleased that we have increased our commitment to rail in all the budgetary units. After many years of neglecting the maintenance of the railway, we have finally started to resume the maintenance run. The left has been enabled to increase planning and investment resources, so that we can also build new pathways and improve existing ones in the future. Further planning of the entire intercity of Lillehammer, Skien and Halden is important for the Eastern region, but it is also important for the future development of the railway between the largest cities in our country and for a clean interconnection and further development of the rail system towards Europe. Even though large parts of Railway Norway are electrified, there are some sections where the locomotives are still running on diesel. This left wants to do something about it. We will electrify the Solørbahnen, the Rørosbanen and the Meråkerbahnen, and we will plan for hydrogen trains on the Nordlandsbanen and Raumabanen. We put this in our alternative budget. We have to lift the freight on the rail, and we are pleased that we got an impact in order for the government to consider ensuring full compensation for the road fare for the freight porters on the rail. The left wants the railway to be the backbone of the transport system, both for short-haul, long-distance and freight traffic. The left wants Norway to take a leading role in environmentally friendly transport, and we believe this is beneficial both for urban and urban residents and for those living in the districts. Norway has the world’s highest density of zero-emission cars on the road, and technology developments are moving rapidly. We are looking forward to 2025, as new cars will no longer be sold on fossil fuels in Norway. A few years ago, many people thought that this was science fiction, and that we never got to where driverless cars are a reality, but today technology has begun to come, and we see that this is about to take hold. I believe that the policy we have chosen for zero-emission cars is good for electricity, but also for hydrogen, and there may be other types of cars in the future if we maintain the policy we have. Norway has shown that ferry sections can be electrified, and we were first in the world when we electrified the ferry section Lavik-Oppedal with «Ampere». The left believes that fossil ferries and boats are well placed to be replaced by zero-emission alternatives, and we believe that zero-emission technology should be required in all ferry offers. We also believe that provision should be made for shore-side electricity at multiple ferry calls. If Norway continues to go ahead as a good example in the transport sector, we need to facilitate research into new technologies. We are therefore pleased that we have increased the appropriations for transport research by 33 million. kr in the budget agreement, and in order to enable us to carry out an investigation into satellite road pricing for heavy transport. If we are to achieve the targets of reducing transport emissions by 40 pst. by 2030, will have to facilitate a green tax shift. Goods and services that pollute must become more expensive and products that do not have a negative impact on climate must be cheaper. The left's alternative budget shows how the green tax shift can be implemented in practice, and we hope that more people will see this in the future. Finally, the Left votes with the Labour Party and the Centre in proposals 1-3. Furthermore, in the event of an incurrency, we have remained in note, page 42, column 2, at the airport at Helgeland. The left considers that it is natural for a final decision on new Helgeland airport to be assessed in the treatment of NTP 2018-2029. This means that there is no longer a majority for the comment that we made about an incurrency, but here we stand with the government parties. As far as SV's proposals are concerned, the left is basically for the solution that has been distributed in the Chamber, but today we are going to vote against because we do not know the costs associated with this. But we will, if necessary, take a positive view of this in the context of the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2312	When I heard the tempo of parts of the post to Raja, I felt that we were back in time when we had social debates in this hall with his party trap Odd Einar Dørum. That was very good in what Raja said. I think I have to give him and the Left the credit for the fact that when the government budget was dealt with last year – in the budgetary agreement that was then negotiated – the price of monthly cards and annual cards on the NSB was reduced by 20 pst. That's a lot of places, but not everywhere. Among other things, it did not apply in Oslo and Akershus. Now, in the budget agreement, 105 million new people have been added. The Labour Party also supports it. Raja was out and said that now it's also going to be 20 pst. price reduction in Oslo and Akershus. I saw the same day in the same newspaper and the same announcement that his party trap Elvesuen said no, there will be no price reduction in Oslo and Akershus. My question is quite simply: is it going to be 20 pst. cheaper monthly tickets in Oslo and Akershus?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2323	It's a good comparison to be measured up against Dørum. It's a bit too big to fill, but of course I thank you for the brilliance and also for the credit that the budgets have become good. In this case with 20 pst, the left and the government parties last year helped us get 20 pst in place. monthly card reduction on the NSB outside where there is existing tariff cooperation. In our alternative budget, we have budgeted with, for example. 2 billion. DKK in tax exemptions on monthly cards if you get this from the employer. We've budgeted with zero rate of VAT, which we've estimated at 750 million. kr, which could give 10 pst. reduction in monthly cards if the collective societies passed it on to the passengers, and we have also written that it should be gradual phase-in of 20 pst. monthly discounts, estimated by amounts to achieve that objective. We're glad we got 105 million. kr, which will not give a discount of 20 pst. But there is a note there that says that this can help to bring down the prices, and my call to the public companies that that is exactly what you are going to spend this money for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2334	There has been a significant increase in government grants for collective action in and around the major cities in the last four years as a result of the cooperation between our parties. Does the representative think it would be possible to realise the major projects we are facing in this region if the red-greens had been allowed to continue their policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2339	I thank you for the question. The simple answer to that is that I don't think that would have been possible. The left is very happy that we're sitting in the position that we're now sitting in. We have budgetary power through the budget agreement we have, and by sitting on the verge with the Christian People's Party. I believe that for the last four years, we and the Christian People's Party have made a significant contribution both to the reduction of the railway and road maintenance system and to the fact that we have managed to bring up the reward system for cities, so that traffic growth can be avoided and passengers can travel more with collective solutions. If you at least base the four previous years, I don't think this would have been possible with the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2344	The left has chosen to draw up a single road project in the whole country in its budgetary position, namely E39 Betna–Stormyra, called the Pál Farstad road in the Left. Is there any particular reason why you have chosen to draw out just one project?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2349	There are many projects that are important to the Left, but I don't think anyone in the Chamber here will be surprised if some of the biggest representatives get a pass on their heart issues, and Betna–Storm is an important matter not least for Pål Farstad, but also for Left locally. I'll assume that also for the whole of Moor and Romsdal that way is important. I am pleased that there is a note there that one should look at that road section in connection with the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2354	The representative Abid Raja is known for being a city politician, occupied by big cities and such. Now I'm going to challenge the representative Raja on what are the most important steps he and Left will take for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2359	I guess I'm noticing born in a city, and I live in a city, but I don't want to say I'm a city politician. I love our country, and I guess I am among the politicians in this committee, at least in the current period, who have traveled the most – I should not say the most, but among those who have travelled the most – around the country and also visited the districts. [[Laughter]] I say not the one who has traveled the most, but among those who have travelled the most. [[Laughter]] It's also to get to know the country. I just took a bike ride from Lindesnes to Nordkapp and traveled another way back. I have learned that there are considerable grips that must be taken for the country. Our roads are bad, that's not good either. Firstly, it is not good for the passengers and the cars, nor is it good for the environment that the roads are bad, and that is not good for road safety. Together with the government parties, we have helped to bring down the road maintenance run considerably, and I think there will be a lot of people in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2365	With this reply, you risk that there will be many more lines in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2370	One of the questions where the hall is divided roughly into two is about the railway reform. There's the right side, that is, the Right and Advance Party embraced by the Left and Christian People's Party, against the old red-green comrades. I remember one thing that was raised in connection with the railway reform and answered by the representative Abid Raja. He said very clearly and clearly that the employee's pension obligations should be secured. Employees' pensions would not be worse as a result of the railway reform. Now we know that the public occupational pensions that employees have will be replaced by lower occupational pensions if they go to private. In addition, uncertainties relate, inter alia, to: to the possibility of AFP in new schemes. Is it such that Abid Raja has guarantees from the government that all employees of the NSB groups will have AFP arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2375	There were a lot of people who -- and if -- were behind the question, so it's very hard to answer some of the questions in a concrete way. This is with the Council of State, it is to be investigated, and then there will be a matter of urgency. But I think it's important that we get these clarifications about the pension rights. It's important for the employees. At the same time, it is important that we have a rail reform. I believe that all the actors sitting in this gallery, who have been the drivers for reforming the rail sector, are happy that the necessary steps have been taken. It is to ensure that the citizens in the future get the most rail for the money, and it is to ensure that players who are not getting in the legs of each other are not built costlyly and incoherently, but do the opposite – which we are doing precisely through this railway reform that we have been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2382	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2387	Today I cycled for the first time with high tires to Stortinget – safe, because I live in a city where parking spaces are removed to get rid of bicycles. A city where people feel safer is a city where people ride bicycles. I live in a city where government parties have lost control, and we cyclists get a new spring, even if it's winter. SV prioritises roads in the districts, public transport, bicycles and walking around and in the cities and lynch trains to bind the country together. This is in stark contrast to the government. Later on, the Minister of Transport, as he pursues a knowledge-based policy, but refuses for the most elementary of all knowledge in road traffic, namely increasing capacity, increasing traffic, contrary to the objectives of taking all traffic growth in urban areas with collective, cycling and walking. The Minister of Transport does not go off the track to instruct others, but refuses to admit that the opposition budgets of the Progress Party would provide a greater level of railway maintenance than was the case when he took over. The progress party went to the elections to abolish tolls. They didn't keep that promise. The millions that Solvik-Olsen distributes as a national Christmas event to cut tolls are not close to weighing up the extra tolls that people have to pay because of the cost bombs that Ketil Solvik-Olsen puts on them from road projects that blow up the cost framework. Never before have people in Norway paid so much toll. Ketil Solvik-Olsen from the Advance Party is the king of tolls. And it's going to be worse if he gets to continue after the election next year, because he always picks the most expensive road alternatives, which thus gives the highest tolls. He tends to answer something like this when he is asked: I think people know that tolls are not the first choice of the Advance Party. That's what he likes to answer, like that around there. That is possible, but today's budget has taught us what the Minister of Transport would have done if he had his first choice. He had cut to the railway, with a consulting practice that the council itself admitted in the Storting's Question Time that was out of control. He had cut the successful bet on bicycles in municipalities and counties. He had cut off the support system for public transport in the cities. He is following in the follow-up to the National Road Transport Plan on Coastal and Waterways. He only has 14 pst. follow-up of urban environmental agreements because he has prioritised privatisation of the railway instead of a proper urban environment. Ketil Solvik-Olsen must stop pretending to be the Minister of Cycling, stop pretending to be the Minister of Railways, stop pretending to be the Minister of Urban Environment. In his budget, he reveals that what he wants most is to be a motorway minister. In the SV, we set our alternative vision for a Norway. We say yes to set up a separate lightning company with its own balance sheet to investigate, plan, develop and operate high-speed trains between cities in Norway and our neighbouring countries, and develop the areas between cities in a way that planes will never be able to do. We say yes to further developing the railway as a single company, the company that, with the railway operations of the red-green and centre parties, has a higher trust and satisfaction from the passengers than in many years. We say yes to building zero-emission solutions for goods in the future, on the cold and at sea. We say yes to sensible road projects for safer roads, racial protection and tunnels in the districts. We say yes to collective action around and in cities and to a car-free city life, because a living center with fewer, no more cars, is better for people, whether it's Oslo or Moelv, and because the air is cleaner, and it's better for the trading community – so don't worry about the government saying yes to new car-based malls just outside the city. We do all of this by re-prioritizing from large projects and focusing on renewable and sustainable solutions. Finally, let me summarise, in the last transport budget debate I have on Stortinget, the ways in which SV has changed the Norwegian debate on transport policy. It was SV who was the proposer for the conversion of the one-off fee to promote more fuel-rich cars, which allows the government to boast that the objectives of the climate agreement are being achieved. It was SV together with the Left who promoted the proposal to impose emission requirements on taxis – the cars that go the longest in cities every year. It was SV that proposed that all State ferry offers should be based on zero emissions and equivalent that all county ferry and passenger boat offers should be based on zero emissions if technology so requires and to test hydrogen ferries. These are proposals that are now commonplace. We're now waiting for the first hydrogen locomotive. It was SV who suggested that all new cars should be zero-emission cars from 2025 – the Workers’ Party proposed 2030 – a proposal that a unanimous accumulation now embraces and that the Right and Advance Party raise in their own comments. It was SV who suggested that the transport industry should create a CO 2 fund according to the model of the NO x fund. The proposal was defeated both in the spring and in the autumn, but now has a unanimous uprising in Stortinget. It was SV who promoted the proposal that all collective emissions should be based on zero emissions, a proposal that was unanimously made by the Stortinget to be met by 2025. It was SV who first put in place a marketing directive for biofuels, first to 2.5 pst. It was we who promoted the proposal of stepping up to at least 11 pst., who got a majority in the energy message, and now brings together a unanimous increase in an increase to 20 pst. in 2020. It was we who first proposed a turnover directive on biofuels for national shipping. Time and again, SV has moved the debate on how to ensure that we cut all emissions. And we're going to keep doing that. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2418	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2425	The red-green government started the railway operation of the times, and one of the measures put in place in the current national transport plan presented by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, was the electrification of the Tronder Railway and the Meråker Railway. The floors propose in the basic document that the electrification should be a tied project. That's good. That's right, but of course it's too late. It is a project that should have been started already. Now we see in the government's draft budget and in the budgetary agreement that it is proposed to re-assess electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway. I cannot interpret it any other way than that the project is no longer a tied project. Then is my question to the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås: Is the representative equally concerned with the electrification of the Tronderbahn and the Meråkerbahn as he is of the tram to Tonsenhagen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2430	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2435	Then the representative has both black and returned the reply. We're going to go to the next replicate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2442	Now we have the third representative of the former red-green government. The other two have spent a lot of time explaining that the slowdown on the road and the track has increased in their eight years, despite the statistics. We also heard Eirik Sivertsen here justify his explanation that it would be in the NTP for the period we are now in, 2014-2023. Now it is such that the first budget that was submitted in connection with it, the Stoltenberg government put forward in the autumn of 2013, before it went off. Also there, by that budget, would have fallen back on the road and gone up. It was the Solberg government's revised version of the budget that did not increase it. Is not the representative Eidsvoll Holmås a little ashamed that here one tries to explain a statistical fact, that the lag on the railway was of 18 billion. When we took over the government power?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2447	Here, I feel like I need to separate dirt and cinnamon. I agree that the delays in the maintenance of the railway increased in our government period. What I have pointed out is that both with the alternative budgets of the Right in the eight years and not least with the budgets of the Advance Party in the eight years, the maintenance allowance would be even greater. Then it's not right that it's the government that has stood for the great promise in maintenance. It is after the Christian People's Party and the Left have forced the government parties to accept large increases in the railway budgets that the big promises have been given to reduce the maintenance run. I would like to emphasise that maintenance allowance reductions have been greater in the alternative budgets – at least from SV, but I think I also remember from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, in the time that the government that Igstad supports has been sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2453	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is very engaged when he talks about the railway, and that's good. But I have a question. So now SV has been opposed to the reforms of this government, but then SV came up with such a wise idea that you would now have New Courses – and he also said in his post that now we were going to build and operate the railway in a completely different way. What makes you see that light now, and there doesn't seem to be any reason to do anything about New Roads? What makes you think differently on the path now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2458	I am going against the rail changes, the reform changes, that the Progress Party has been involved in driving through. I think they're poorly thought out, and they're poorly planned. Here we see, when we are in the situation we are doing now, that one does not even have to think carefully through how to cover the pension obligations, despite the fact that several of the government's support parties have promised that the pension obligations should be secured by a railway reform that lies there. I also believe that there is nothing to suggest that the excessive use of consultants in the railway sector at the moment is bringing something good with it. It would have been much, much better to build the skills of the institutions that exist there. In the case of New Baner, I think that if you're going to be able to raise a project as big as a new bet on the lynch train, you have to have a separate company that has the purpose. That's why we're for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2471	Several parties have referred to the Green Tax Commission’s proposal to implement satellite road pricing for car transport. What is the SV's idea of what this road pricing can create in view of new opportunities for more differentiation of car charges on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2476	Thank you very much for your question. I have to start by saying that we are going to support the proposal that is now in place to explore the possibility of the kind of road pricing that the representative Gruvan is talking about. I think it has some advantages and some opportunities that lie there that are positive, now that it is also clear that the privacy aspects of this can be implemented. But at the same time, I would say that where this can be most useful, it is within the heavy transport sector, because within the heavy transport sector, Norwegian operators, i.e. Norwegian truck drivers, compete with foreign truck drivers. We have the whole issue of cabotage. Instead of charging the fuel used in heavy transport, I think it would have been much more effective to use it on the road, rather differentiated according to the type of euro class the various trucks have. I believe that it will work, and I hope that the Count will give priority to pushing on exactly that in the further work of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2481	We heard in one of the previous lines about the delay in electrification of the Trønderbahnen and the Meråkerbahnen. I think that's very regrettable, because it was one of the things that we were very concerned about in the NTP decisions in 2013, both that one should start there, and that one should explore the long sections of the track. I guess there's a reason to think that the level of ambition might not be that high in taking it further. I hope that I am wrong, because I believe that one of the most important climate measures we can come with is actually getting the old diesel locomotives parked and getting electrified, or getting new sections of track – some of them on hydrogen. What does SV think about that? Isn't there a reason to be a little concerned that you're so late with the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen as you are?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2486	Yes, and I believe that this is a three-step approach. I believe that the first thing to do to cut emissions from diesel locomotives is to make sure to use biofuels instead. That is what we have been proposing in the past that we want this to be done from 2017. That proposal has fallen in Stortinget. The next thing I think you should do, is the fastest possible use of hydrogen trains. On some sections where there are a lot of tunnels, possibly both on the Nordlandsbahnen and on Raumabanen, I believe that hydrogen locomotives will be what could be used as quickly as possible to cut emissions. But it is clear that on the heavy working distances where you can see the potential to transfer goods, it is to bet on electrification and press for it extremely important. But here we see, as also the opposition parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have pointed out, that there has been too little planning capacity – too low a priority in the railway works – to make sure to have top progress on some of these projects. I think that's stupid. But at least we want to have drag.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2491	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2496	Well, it's nice to be able to sum up four years by a civil majority, but I'm betting that we're going to be able to participate in a lot of transport debates in the next majorization periods from the same position. Building good infrastructure is important for our country. There's something that obviously everybody in this room is concerned about, even though the priorities are a little bit different. I record that representatives from previous governments think we are building too much road. I agree with that criticism. At the same time, it is important to stress that we also build a lot of railways, a lot of collective services, and we make sure that emissions can go down. Yes, in fact, we see that total emissions from the transport sector are lower now than when we took over. It's important to get along, because in the overall debate today, I think that the random listener at the gallery would think that things really went in the wrong direction, that we actually spent less money building this country – no more, as the fact is – that we spent less money on the maintenance of the infrastructure we have, while the fact is that we build more. Let's try to agree on some facts, even when we're discussing what we're going to do next, for those who can't describe the present, will at least not be able to rule when you're going into the future. Having a good infrastructure is important for people to get around the country. People should be able to function, get good jobs, have good family life, experience cultural opportunities, participate in leisure activities, simply be more with those they enjoy, be able to travel safely, environmentally friendly and predictable. We are a diverse society, and then travel preferences and needs are diverse. Some people just have to travel short distances every day, and they can cycle to and from work. Then I won't. I myself was riding on Sunday at the latest. But where I rode, there was a lot of ice. I think it would be very busy on the medic if everyone used a bike for a day, when Oslo doesn't have better maintenance on some bike routes than they have. But at the same time, it's important that you have good alternatives, so when you need it or when your health requires it, you have good alternatives to come up with. That's why we have to bet both on the road, on the railway, on the bus, on the train, on the private car, on planes, on shipping and on everything else that makes people get around. Then you have to make sure that we connect the country digitally, so that people can work around the country, communicate well with both telecommunications and data, and that when you have to send physical objects, you have a transport system, a postal system that works well. Even though you're far from the goal, and I don't think we'll ever get there, because we'll always have new desires, new needs, new opportunities that show up, we know that the 4G coverage increased from 70 to 90 pst. only in one year. It's important to get along, when someone gives the impression that things have almost gone in the wrong direction over the last few years. In a state like Uppland, which I often get criticism from the Center Party because we have supposedly forgotten, the 4G coverage has gone from below 9 pst. when we took over, to over 90 pst. today. Upland receives more support for fibre development now than under the previous government. At the same time, the aim is to expand digital communications by having market players who invest voluntarily, because customers buy their services voluntarily. We see that the investment level in 2016 is approx. Six billion. kr higher than in 2013, is thus able to combine good framework conditions from the State with investment actors, and nothing is better than that. That's the total effort that counts, not just the few tens or hundreds of millions that you're arguing about over the state budget. Better infrastructure can reduce travel time. Road safety is being increased. You make it more predictable to get there. It makes it easier for regions to compete, to make business easier to connect between regions, to strengthen clusters – we want to contribute to that. Getting a record increase in the appropriations is an important part of it. At the same time, we must ensure that vehicles on the roads, on the railways, at airports or at ports have lower emissions, less noise, are more energy efficient. Some people drag it into the state budget as individual items to be able to boast of it. For us, it's much more important that we use the tools we thought we agreed on, namely Enova. While some parts in the main hall should boast of 50 or 100 million. SEK in ferry fees, the government grants through Enova several hundred million for the same purposes. And it's actually the heads that arrive, that count, not the entry from which they are granted. We build more infrastructure just because it's needed. So many people say that much of that infrastructure has been planned for a long time. Yes, no one denies. Unfortunately, it has been planned for too long – much of it for 40–50 years. The important thing now is that it is actually being built. We maintain more of what we have. It would also have been a bit of an interesting debate, because no one disagrees about maintaining, and I think that is good. The same thing said the former State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete in a written reply to the Storting as early as 2006, that the maintenance of the infrastructure is one of the most important things we have to do, but fortunately, there are all the parties agreeing, so it will be easy to prioritize. Nevertheless, the result after two periods of the previous government was that the maturity had increased and not been reduced. It is a bit interesting when we hear the debate on rail maintenance here today, because we must remember that the overall maintenance losses in 2005 were about. $9.5 billion. kr, in 2013 it was 18.9 bn. kr, i.e. a doubling, while with the budget now adopted, we are down to the 16th century, there has been a clear trend change – yes, not just a trend change, a deliberate misguided policy, which was not part of the national transport plan, but which has been done because the civil parties prioritise this together. We've seen the same thing on the way. After many decades of increased maturity, it is only in the last three years that the maturity has decreased — first by 0.5 billion, then by 1 billion. and now with a further 1,6 billion. kr. We're reducing the decay, we're taking it back, we're making sure it's better to be able to drive a car in the districts, where the car is a major means of transport, both for those who live and work there, and for the business community, who need to transport their goods. It is important that we be able to implement the projects effectively. That is why we have reforms. I think we have a communication problem, because there are some people in this room who give the impression that we split things up, that we split things up, responsibility disappears, and we privatize. The reforms that this government has put forward and received support from the Christian People's Party and the Left to implement are not about privatising. It's not about splitting up. It is about bringing together responsibilities that have been allocated today, for example: between the railway works and the NSB. Now we get a unit responsible for the property masses and the physical infrastructures. I actually thought it was quite obvious that then you gather responsibility, you don't split. But it is important that we do these things, so that we get one total budget of revenue and expenditure that makes the investment will change, that we deal with the values that lie there, and can make clearer decisions without the need to bring together many actors across the organisation line, company and budget. And that's some of what we're now starting to see the result of. In the NSB, you're going to have fewer people sitting and moving paper -- that's the opposite of what the opposition has said here, that we're going to have more bureaucrats. No, the experience so far is that there are fewer bureaucrats. The railway company estimated that they could save hundreds of millions of dollars a year through better maintenance contracts when you can have them over several years. Already there, the costs of conversion have been saved by getting more back for the money. Where you have some investment costs in a short phase, it is to generate added value over time. And it's nice that some people don't want to be part of this. Through Nye Veier we have shown that by organising the projects we can both get a more correct standard, get longer distances adopted and make professionals more professional. We have not managed to prevent any project from being delayed by the fact that planning work has taken more time, but I believe that there are fewer of them now than it was before. For approx. Four years ago in the public debate, the red-green government got a report caught that they didn't like very much. There was a report from the NHO that showed that seven out of ten projects were significantly delayed. It seems that that report is now completely forgotten. I don't think it's forgotten, but it was in every case omitted from my critics' speeches. However, it is part of the reason why we are making changes, simply to bring together responsibilities, to implement projects faster, better and cheaper. The Ringerix Railway is an example of that. Finally, after the debate I have heard, let me provide some factual information. I remember that the Municipal Report a few months ago could report that 2015 was the year of the best municipal economy in ten years – about someone giving the impression that the municipalities are starving. Road maintenance was granted 10.1 billion. kr previous period, SEK 16,2 billion. kr during this period. Railway planning funds amounted to 216 million in 2013. NOK 1,753 million in 2017. kr. So it's a double. The tunnel maintenance has quadrupled - information to the centre party. The county roads have a total of 1.5 billion. kr more than NTP proposed. To SV: The appropriations for bicycle paths have been increased by nearly 60 pst. compared to the previous four years. As I said, collective investment has almost tripled, and in the case of the railway budget, it has fallen due where it has increased in the past. So the numbers show that we're on the right track, even if we're not in the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2533	State councils are busy telling us that 10 billion has now been used. kr more than the size envisaged to comply with the national transport plan. Is the Council of State proud that he was then unable to give sufficient priority to the objectives of road safety, road safety and universal design set out in the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2539	I'm very proud that we use e.g. Almost 1 billion. kr more by bicycle than the previous government spent in its last four years. I am proud that we have built a lot more middle parts, we have reinforced the middle remark, and we have maintained several roads. Road standards have increased by several percentage points each year compared to the previous government year. I think that even though the representative Sivertsen can pick some points where as a percentage of the NTP we haven't gotten up to 100, one will see that we've spent 10 billion. kr more than the Workers' Party thought was the most offensive investment that could be expected. The fact that we have made our adjustments to get more back for the money to get further, to knock some projects so that we get more left for it, I think it's worth it. Because we also see that road safety on Norwegian roads, although the representative Sivertsen does not like it as part of the answer, has also gone in the right direction. That's why I want to measure the results. And then we're not quite aiming to clean up all kinds of organizational improvements that are actually needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2544	I would have been careful to politicate too much about developments in road safety. As mentioned earlier in the debate, it has fallen systematically since 1947. That, I think, is a broad political consensus on prioritizing. Since the Council of State could not answer the question, I have to assume that he is not proud of the results he has not achieved. It was now a good thing, it could be tempting to say that he should be ashamed. But I'm going to praise the Council of State for one thing he did today that he didn't do in the throne debate: talk about climate. So it's also going forward with State Councillor Solvik-Olsen. But his former colleague, Mrs Sundtoft, said when the Paris agreement was signed last year that dramatic changes are required in the transport sector if we are to meet the emission reduction requirements that are there. What dramatic changes do we see in the government budget next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2551	When I hear the Workers' Party in the debate on trade, it's as if the Brazilian country fighter in the semifinals in the World Cup 2014 had gone to the German and said that they had contributed to many fine goals. But Germany won 7–1! It is very little that I think the Workers' Party has exceeded today's government when you look at what the Workers' Party itself delivered. This also applies to emissions. The current government was able to fill our cities with diesel cars, while we know that one was convicted in the EFTA Court because of poor air quality. The working party selected the opposite solution to what we needed. We have delivered approx. three times more efforts on the collective through the reward scheme than the Workers' Party has been able to. There are more trains from Oslo S now than when the Workers' Party crashed. The maintenance of the railway is twice as large as when the Workers' Party crashed. We also know that emissions increased sharply under the Government of the Workers' Party, while they have, in fact, fallen slightly in the overall transport sector in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2558	In the 2017 State budget, there is a mechanism of incentives to obtain more goods from road to sea. By removing part of the heavy goods transport from the road, we believe that we are creating safer roads and a better climate. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the increase given by the budgetary unit, with even more funding for the new incentive system than the government originally proposed. Will the Council of State now engage in a dialogue with the industry to ensure that this action is properly implemented, and can the Council of State promise that these funds will allow more goods to be transported by sea instead of on the road, as early as 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2563	It cooperated the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have also had on this budget, I think we should be proud of. It takes things in a better direction. We make sure that the railway is in better condition, the railway is an important part of moving goods from road to track. This incentive scheme, which many have been talking about for many years, even before this government, is now in place. It is significantly strengthened by the budgetary agreement, and it provides us with an economic instrument to support the establishment of new or extension of existing routes. For a long time, even before the budget was presented, we had good dialogue with the Norwegian Shipowners' Federation, NHO Logistics and Transport and similar organisations, as well as with many single actors, to find out where things are wanted – both ports, shipping companies, carriers. We will continue that work, so that we ensure that that money will work already in 2017 and affect the preferences and behaviour of the carriers and the logistics buyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2570	Over the past few weeks, it has been announced that the Bergen-Arna railway project has been exceeded by 3 billion. kr. One of the things that was also disclosed was that it was considered to shut down the Bergen station for a reasonable number of months. I think it's really quite dramatic, because it's a big project, it's an important project. Why has the Council of State not informed Stortinget about the exceedances that we have heard through, among other things. The Official Journal of the Mountains?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2575	But I have – it has been said – that in the staging proposition both for the current budget and for the previous budget. We have also informed about other documents that Stortinget has received. I hope, when we write this, that it actually gets read. In that case, it's a bigger challenge than we didn't write it, because we've actually done that. But what's interesting in this debate is that this government spends a lot of money betting on the railways. We're getting a lot of projects that we've been discussing for a long time. But just when it comes to the project outside Bergen, I'm also worried, precisely because the cost excesses are so big. But the previous government also knew that it was a challenge. In some debates, the Workers' Party and the Centre come and say that it is problematic that costs go up, we have to stop the project until we have a full overview. In other debates, I have been asked questions – among others. by the representative of Rommetveit – where they say that now we must have full gas, so that there will be no delay in the project. It would have been a very advantage if the opposition spoke with one tongue. Is there a concern about the costs or about the progress of time here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2584	The budget agreement is ready. It shows that there have been some additions in some areas under the Minister of Transport. That's 425 million. SEK more to the public transport reward scheme, 400 million. SEK more for the operation and maintenance of the railway, 280 million. kr more for railway planning, 150 mill. kr more for railway investments, etc. – a total of more than 1.5 billion. kr. I guess if you take this away, everyday life would be a little bit different. Does the Council of State believe that this mechanism, as the budgetary conciliation finally ended, is in a more correct direction for the future country of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2589	I appreciate the money that comes in to the Ministry of Transport, because I know we share the overall vision of where we want to go. We want to build a country with better infrastructure and maintain it. The previous government did not maintain the infrastructure we had. Due sessions. That is why many of my predecessors have stood down on the Oslo S and received a lot of criticism that the trains were standing. Although one knew that the maintenance was poor, one did not increase the bet. The left and the government have slightly different priorities for how much money you spend on different items. I just want to remind you that yes, now there is even more money for planning, but compared to the budget we took over in 2013, where it was just over 200 million. So it's going to be $1.6 or $1.750. kr. Both parts are considerably more, so we're moving well over the direction that the red-greens had. But the left has often wanted to cut significantly in the road effort. I think one has to have a balance, so that we have more road appropriations than the left often wanted, but I think we're going to get out of this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2596	I'm gonna ask the president to beat down the state council more hard when he's telling lies from the Storting's pulpit. Today, a new one came, namely that the red-green government was condemned for air quality in the cities. That's not right. It was the government of the State Council that was judged – if he reads the verdict – that his own government did not have a plan to improve air quality. They have not yet submitted that plan. That is why I say this: the Council of State has countered or combined with most measures to improve air quality. He has been against taking care of diesel ban zones in Oslo. He's been an opponent of low-emission zones. Now we've forced him to drive it through. He has been opposed to making it more expensive with local emissions. Then the question is, can he mention one case in which he has been a driver of measures for better urban air?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2603	I would say that a much improved allocation to the railway is included and provides better urban air. I'm going to say that what we've given for collective action gives better urban air. I would say that improved framework conditions for low-emission and zero-emission cars provide better urban air. So there's a difference between today's government and the previous government here. They tried to solve the urban air problem with several diesel cars in the cities. I think that is a completely wrong solution. This is a bit of a reason why Norway was convicted in the EFTA Court of Emissions from 2009 to 2012. Then it was actually Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås’ government that crashed. Then we have heard many things from the pulpit during Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås’ posts. Among other things, he claimed that we don't care about bicycles. Well, I myself cycle pretty much the whole year, I. Over this four-year period, we've committed 2.1 billion. SEK to bicycle – towards 1.2 billion. kr during the previous four-year period. For collectives, we're going to grant 5.1 billion. SEK in the reward scheme – against SEK 1.8 billion. kr. We have begun to cut in the fall of the railway that doubled under the rule of Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. So I'm very proud of what we do in the cities. I believe the best measure for better urban air was to change the government in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2620	Every year the London metro carries 1.2 billion people under the streets of the city. That's the main reason why the city works at all. Transport is not just transport itself. It's not just moving people. Transport and mobility affect employment, business, knowledge life, leisure life – yes, life itself and not least life on earth. Ever since the UN Climate Panel and Al Gore received the Peace Prize for the Uncomfortable Truth, all parties – a correction: all parties except the Advance Party – have been aware that we face one of the greatest challenges facing the world society. GHG emissions are increasing and temperature is rising. The question is, what did I do? What did you do? What did we do when we stood there, face to face with seriousness? What did Stortinget do when we had the chance? The Paris Agreement will limit global warming to less than a two-degree increase, and we will cut emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. Then too, as the then climate minister Sundtoft said to TV 2, dramatic changes in the transport sector are required. Without dramatic changes – that is, doing nothing – car traffic will increase. Prosperity, especially for the transport of food with its consequences, is getting worse and environmental problems will grow. Although Johan Sverdrup said ‘all power in this room’, these conversions do not come of themselves, even though the Storting has adopted it, and the Paris agreement says it. As individuals and as travellers, we really need predictability, clear signals, tough political priorities, and not least concrete action by a responsible State Council following up the decisions. After four years I find that it does not happen. After four years with Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government, the work on urban environmental agreements has been trained, exposed, neglected, excluded, not prioritised – there are no more words in the synonym murder book. Trondheim has signed an agreement as the only city. The other urban areas are hammering on the door, but Solvik-Olsen and the government refuse to let them in. The cities do not lack the will to do the job. That's what the government is doing. When we now settle the accounts after four years, Solvik-Olsen and the government have only granted 14.4 pst. of the set-up of the NTP for urban environmental agreements – 14,4 pst. It is almost tempting to point out that they could at least have reached 16.3 p.m., which is the last election result of the Advance Party and famous excuse in any case where they are unable to deliver on the election promises. For electionlifters, it was not on, nor in this case. In 2013, Solvik-Olsen and the Advance Party were to replace the reward scheme with government purchases in the largest cities. After four years, the same scheme boasts, and government purchases are not a topic. In 2013, Solvik-Olsen and the Progress Party were to spend 28 billion. kr for a separate urban package, urban package and collective package. After four years, 28 billion is. replaced by 14.4 p.m., the training of agreements and high political games in which travellers, cities and the environment become losers. The Workers' Party wishes to implement a national commitment for the development and operation of public transport in and around the major cities. We want a bet on bikes and times. We believe it is absolutely necessary to reduce the polluting car traffic in line with the zero growth target adopted by the Stortinget. That's why we're proposing 2.5 billion. kr to urban environmental agreements and the reward scheme. That's 1 billion. kr more than the government. It is a clear prioritisation and evidence that the Workers' Party is standing by its promises to bet on collective action, while others are jumping as soon as their legs can carry them away from theirs. So what did we do when we had the chance? What did I do? What did you do? What did Stortinget do? Did we take responsibility, or did we run off the farm? Norway could have had a greener and more climate-friendly budget with the Workers' Party's proposals. Unfortunately, that chance chose Stortinget away. In the autumn of 2017, there will be a new chance. I hope the voters take that chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2641	Traffic is one of the main areas of activity of this government. In cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have jointly increased the social budget by over 50 pst. since the government change. It makes the 2017 state budget a historical budget for civil society. Norway is a diverse country and rich in natural resources. It offers many opportunities, but also many challenges. In areas where you would think that it was not possible to do business, we find large and small enterprises where exports and international trade are part of everyday life. This is one of the characteristics of our country: it creates values across our long-range country. That's why transportation is so important. Not because people are so busy building roads, but because they see how important good infrastructure is to people's value creation, jobs and life base. In all budgets from 2014 until now, governments and cooperation parties have shown both the will and the ability to prioritise. Firstly, we have raised the stakes on operation, maintenance and renewal to a whole new level. After eight years of red-green government, where the increasing number of years went by, we have reversed this trend. In 2015, 2016 and the 2017 budget, the maintenance allowance on the road and track is reduced by more than 5 billion. kr. It improves road accessibility and road safety and improves predictability and regularity for the railways. The responsibility for the large maintenance seat run cannot be attributed to the red-green government alone, but it must be allowed to wonder why this was not prioritised, and that the decay could increase in the eight red-green years by a purely majority in the Storting. We promised to overfill the NTP. We've done that on both the road and the railway. In total, we overfill the NTP by nearly 10 billion. kr and a filling level of almost 105 pst. At the same time, it is not enough to fill up with money. We see that some projects are becoming more expensive than expected, and a significant part of the space for action has also been devoted to reducing maintenance and giving priority to planning major and important transport projects. That's why it's important to think new, find new and better ways to work, so that each penny is used more efficiently. The reforms carried out in the transport sector during this period of government are absolutely necessary to meet the challenges ahead. The establishment of Nye Veier AS gives us a new business environment on road construction in addition to the Statens vägvesen. These professional environments will both challenge and complement each other and stimulate innovation and innovation. We already see in the first contract award that the tender prices are lower than the cost estimates. It's a good sign and promises good for the continuation. The scheduling time is too long. Lack of predictability and insufficient overall planning are some of the problems. So let's do something about that. At the same time, we apply a government plan where it is necessary to avoid unnecessary encumbrances and objections. Shorter planning means reduced costs. Alternative implementation strategies such as public–private cooperation will be used more widely where appropriate. OPS and the road carrier have some of the same advantages: increased predictability, overall planning, faster execution and the value of seeing investment and operations/maintenance in the context. Tolls are also an important part of the funding base for many projects. Then it is important that as much of the money as possible goes to the construction of the road and as much as possible to the administration and interest rates. Toll reform provides the basis for fewer toll companies and more efficient toll collection. In addition, I could mention the railway reform and other important actions we take in the transport sector. The main point is that transport policy is not just about money, but about how the money is used. We already see the effects of the reforms, and they are no less important in the coming years. We are facing a shift of technology in the transport sector. New technologies will provide completely new services in many areas, contribute to increased road safety and facilitate new and more environmentally friendly solutions. An example of this is now seen in the ferry sector. Requirements for low- and zero-emission solutions provide more environmentally friendly solutions and new assignments to the Norwegian industry. This is an example of the fact that strict environmental requirements are a competitive advantage for Norwegian enterprises. The government announced in the budget that it would facilitate a hydrogen ferry development project. It's an exciting project, which can once again be involved in setting a new industry standard. Tomorrow's travel offer will certainly not be like today's. New technology will provide us with new opportunities, but we will still need roads linking housing and labour market regions, an efficient airport structure, a railway capable of transporting goods and people, and a maritime transport that takes large parts of the freight volume. There is a need for a continued strong commitment to infrastructure construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2673	About ten years ago, a gigantic reverse operation was carried out within the Norwegian railway system. Something had to be done, either there had to be considerable investment on the railway, or the opposite and much more dramatic had to be done. After a long time of underinvestment, the Railway Agency’s investment budget was fivefold. New projects were launched, resulting in the gradual opening of new tracks and new parcels. This has produced results. Railway traffic has increased significantly in recent years. I have used several times from this pulpit as an example that between Lillestrom and Asker now trains go every ten minutes, a very good offer to the travellers, and this – the railway development and the fact that NSB has bought many new trains – makes the passengers flow to the railway. This is the solution, build more double tracks and buy more trains. Large investments have been made and more are coming. On Saturday I think we must be able to say that there is a big party in Holmestrand. It's a double party, then a new and important parcel opens on the Vestfold course, and it's opening up the new Holmestrand station – the new spectacular Holmestrand station, I think I'll say. And probably right now, there's a tunnel running on Follobanen that's just that. Many projects are built, many come, and much more have to be done to expand the rail offer in our country. For this reason, it was so important to examine the national transport plan in 2013 that the Storting agreed on the objective of expanding our intercity sections. The Stortinget said that internal intercity to Fredrikstad, Hamar and Tønsberg would be finished in 2024, and external intercity to Halden, Lillehammer and Skien in 2030. There was considerable uncertainty about this in the draft budget. The draft state budget had not even been called from the printing house before it streamed up with enquiries from municipalities and county municipalities in the East, and the message was unambiguous: there is too little money to plan our intercity sections to follow the current progress plan. In a letter to Stortinget, the Minister for Transport said that he would review intercity in the national transport plan or, as he says, ‘rethink the level of ambition of the IC portfolio’. We have not yet learned how much more money is needed for planning in 2017. That's 200 million. It's SEK 280 million. kr, now included in the budget agreement, is 400 million. kr or is it 500 million. kr to follow the intercity progress plan? Let's say the goal is still: internal intercity finished in 2024, and external intercity in 2030. Let me then turn to an important road project for Romerike and Akershus, the so-called Glomma crossing on Rv. Twenty-two in Fet. So this is the road from Lillestrøm and to the east, an important road for parts of Østfold, southern parts of Hedmark and eastern parts of Akershus. For many years we have been working on finding a solution for a new crossing over Glomma. In response to a question in the Questionnaire on 19 November 2014, Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen stated that a new bridge could be completed in 2024. Just a few days ago, representatives of the State Road Administration of the Austrian Blade said that a new bridge, a new Glomma crossing, could be ready in 2025. It is so soon that I do not dare to take up the project any more, for every time we take it up, there are delays that the Minister of Transport has to report. Now we need to get ahead of work on a new Glomma crossing. This is bottleneck number. One in the district, and people are in line every day. Therefore, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left have proposed that the planning of the project should continue as planned in the national transport plan. Brua must be able to finish in 2024, which it has previously been working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2684	The right-wing Party government, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, continues to carry out the journey of time. Since we joined the government, we have increased the appropriations for the transport budget by over 50 pst. The red-green bet neither on the road nor on the track, and the maintenance seat dredged increased year after year. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are betting both on the road and on the track, and we've managed to stop the chase and start taking it again. It is important, both for road safety and for accessibility. In the case of county roads, the red-greens set quite a mouse silence and saw that the huge maintenance kit increased year after year. The fall had grown to an estimated 70–75 billion. kr when we joined the government. Had it not been for the Right Party and the Advance Party to come into government, it would probably have been enraged to continue growing to heaven. We're betting on county roads, and we're increasing the appropriations for the neglected county roads. It started at $500 million. NOK when we took over and went to government, and now we have increased it to a total of 1,400 million. kr. In terms of building the country and linking regions and parts of the country, the Right Party and the Advance Party make a massive uplift. In order to reduce the number of accidents, to reduce travel time and to increase the availability, we are placing enormous effort on the development of both national and European roads. In 1962, long before I was born, the Workers’ Party launched a highway plan. It was actually a fantastic plan. It was a visionary plan, it was an important plan to build the country with a continuous four-field highway of a total of 785 km. That network was to be built on approx. 18 years. But unfortunately the plan was put in a drawer, and it was never realized. But today's Right Party government, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, has brushed dust from this old highway plan. With the establishment of Nye Veier, we have made an empty talk about building the country for real action. New Weier has been given the responsibility to build a 532 km motorway in 20 years. New roads are not a diurnal fly, New roads are not a failure, and New roads are not empty plans that will be put away in a drawer. Even now, before Nye Veier is one year old, we see very positive results. New roads are well under way with large expansion projects, both in the interior, in Trøndelag, in the south and in the west. Consequently, as the representative Sivertsen tried to produce it instead, it is absolutely not true that there is uncertainty as to whether New Roads are going on, and as to what is going on with construction in 2017. On the E18 route from Arendal to Tvedestrand, the tendering process is over. AF won, and they are going to start construction in 2017. On the E6 north of Colomoen and up to Moelv the bidding process is also well underway, and the construction start from Colomoen will also be in 2017 – many, many, many years before the red-green desire. We are accelerating important national highways for several years. In the red-green NTP, it was not even planned to build E6 for Moelv. To put it mildly, it must be embarrassing for the red-greens, especially in the light of the 1962 Motorway Plan of the Workers' Party, which added that the E6 was to be built with four fields for Lillehammer by 1980. In the creation of New Roads as a supplement to the State Road Service, we build faster, coherent and completely, not piecefully and divided. We also build significantly cheaper, which in turn saves society and the drivers unnecessary costs. Only on the 23 kilometres between Arendal and Tvedestrand on E18, New Veier has managed to save 0.5 billion. kr. Half a billion only on one project is impressive, and everything suggests that further projects that New Veiger is working on will bring similar savings. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to decorate a bit of the Workers' Party – it is important perhaps to be a little rusty and kind to each other now before Christmas. We've overfilled the red-green NTP with almost 105 pst. It's impressive, and I'm proud of that. However, in connection with NTP and toll collection, I also find it nice to note that the Workers' Party writes in its comments that they are pleased that the Right Party Party government has followed up the NTP in key areas, such as the provision of fewer toll companies, the coordination of tariff and discount systems and mandatory billing chips. The government's toll reform is important, so that less money is spent on administration and bureaucracy and more money is used to pay the road itself and reduce the cost of bombing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2707	The Council of State boasts that this government is over-complying with the agreed NTP and that the government is delivering much more on the transport sector than we in the Labour Party have suggested. This is a completely wrong representation. During each budgetary procedure during this large-scale period, the Labour Party, in its alternative budget proposals, has had more money for transport than the government has had. And not enough with it: in several fields, there is a number of projects that have cured within the current NTP action programme for the period 2014-2017, which, with the government's budget proposal, will not be implemented as planned. The government is far behind in the implementation of major and planned coastal actions, and the 2014-2017 Coastal Authority's 2014-2017 action programme is several farledge projects that will not be launched during this NTP period. It shall apply: northern entrance, Bergen i Hordaland Borg port, Røsvikrenna and seal Borg 2 in Eastfold Longyearbyen port at Svalbard And of the fishing ports it applies: Fosnavåg in Møre and Romesdal Årviksand, Skjervøy i Troms Vannavalen, Karlsøy i Troms Breivikbotn, Hasvik in Finnmark Kamøyvær, Nordkapp in Finnmark Lavalry in More and Romesdal In the budget line ‘New facilities and major maintenance’ for the Coastal Agency, the government proposed a reduction of 144 million in this budget. kr in relation to what was agreed in the 2016 budget. In the working party's alternative budget proposal, this item increased by 155 million. kr. The challenges faced by the petromaritime industry are far more offensive to coastal action, both at fairway and at fishing ports than the government has foreseen during this period. Other good measures that need to be taken include: fishing port of Andøya, Northland Rehabilitation of ports in Værøy, Northland deepening the seal of the Port of Florø in Sogn and Fjordane, in order to obtain large rigs fishing port at Bømlo in Hordaland extension of the route to Farsund, Håøøflua in West Agder reduction of the thresholds in Ringdalsfjorden, Halden i Østfold, in order for the company Nexans to be competitive When the government joined Solberg, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast was laid down. The fisheries section was added to the Ministry of Agriculture, while the coastal part would then become part of the Ministry of Transport. This was launched by the government as a strengthening of coastal policy, but when we now enter the fourth year of this scheme, there is little evidence to suggest that there has been a strengthening. The means of transferring goods from road to sea is an important element of the current national transport plan, but with the government's draft budget, only 34.6 pst is achieved in this field. NTP compliance for the period 2014-2017. Rightly, from 2017, the government, that is, the last year of the four-year period, introduces a back-up scheme for the transfer of goods from road to sea. But it's all too late here, and it's too small, and the system probably doesn't have the right alignment either. Here, the Worker's Party is adding 53 million. At the top of the 30 governments, and as the maritime actors strongly pointed out in the committee hearing, we want this support to be more targeted towards the product owners in order to obtain the desired effect. In 2015, ‘National Port Strategy’ was provided. He was entitled ‘Government’s Strategy for Effective Ports to Get More Goods at Sea’. Here it appears that the government is opening up to liberalize port capital. This means that the port owners, mostly the municipalities, can benefit from the ports, which in the next round will lead to higher port charges and even higher costs for maritime transport. And when it is also announced that one considers transferring the fishing ports to the municipalities, a system that today stimulates local and regional development is at risk of being destroyed. From the financial year 2015, after pressure from the opposition, a system of port cooperation was put in place. In the tamp of the year, it was found that only 2.3 million had been used. DKK for the purpose of the budgeted 10 million. kr. It shows that the scheme has not functioned properly, and the government has done too little to make the scheme attractive and accessible. The Minister for Transport has promised a great deal on the coast and that more goods will be cooled. But both the proposed budget proposals and the half-hearted and partly faulty reorganizations show that this has been a bluff.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2781	In fact, the infrastructure mix is far-fell, and the part of digital communications is currently as important as road, rail, public and air transport. The basic element of a well-digitated society is a well-functioning echonet. An additional element is that digital communication, in combination with technology, will also contribute to the progress and improvement of the old, known areas of transport. The transport sector must play an active role in addressing the negative effects generated by this sector. Evolution requires that we facilitate those who want to test and experiment today, and that we politically accept that research also means that sometimes time will have been spent finding out that one actually was wrong. I am pleased that we have a political plurality that supports this type of testing, which is open to the establishment of good arenas for the research environment, and that will stimulate the Norwegian environment to take part in the possibilities that lie before ITS. This will simplify, improve and unite our transport calendar. Digital policy must heighten a galloping trend in which technological change is accelerating. For example, mobile data use has changed significantly only between 2013 and today. The mobile part has now become an essential part of the holistic ecosystem, with a 4G coverage of over 90 pst. Mobile operators are building too fully with technologies that can provide user experienced speed of up to 200 Mbps, and this will increase as the development progresses. It is important to ensure the efficient deployment and exploitation of the holistic ecosystem. Therefore, it is good that the government has decided that the 700 MHz band should be used for mobile services in the future. It will provide a basis for better coverage across the country. The government has set a target of 100 Mbps for all parts of the country where people work, live and travel. When it comes to developing the ecosystem in Norway, we have had a different approach to building the infrastructure than many other countries, not only in the last few years, with bourgeois government, but in fact also under red-green rule. It has our market power, and it has proved to be both successful and effective. So the fact that the red-greens in the opposition now claim and mean something completely different becomes the most rhetorical and political game. In fact, putting money on each other in its own batch budget is not going to solve anything. In order for us to be closed down with the further development of digital infrastructure, other measures are far more important than increasing state support. We need to ensure low development costs; we need to stimulate better use of the holistic ecosystem, as mentioned, and we need to ensure technology neutrality. The State invests more than 200 million in 2017. The sector itself has increased its annual investment in the ecosystem to 8.6 billion. kr in 2015. Efforts to find the best incentives for the efficient deployment and exploitation of a pan-European digital communications transport network have been intensified. Under the red-green control, there was no clearly defined target for work on digital infrastructure. It has got the Right and the Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, in place. The Ekomplan provides a good basis for further work. Finally, I would like to bring forward the Government's Digital Agenda message, which refers to the importance of cross-sectoral involvement in digital policy. This government demonstrates the ability and willingness to ensure that Norway is in the forefront of a holistic digital policy – a digital policy that can turn Norway into the smart society we want for the transport sector as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2808	Our greenhouse gas emissions should be cut by 40 pst. by 2020, and if we are to fulfil our own obligations under the Paris Agreement, it is urgent. The continuation of today’s climate policy will scarcely provide for emission reductions in the non-quota sector. The transport sector is responsible for 31 pst. of the total emission and for 57 pst. of the emissions in the non-emissions sector. By facilitating the reduction of emissions in this sector, we will be able to achieve the ambitious targets that we have set ourselves. It is a total set-up that aims to ensure that the new car sales of passenger cars in 2025 are based on zero-emission technologies. We need to use charges to achieve this goal. It is worth choosing climate-friendly solutions rather than greenhouse gas emission solutions. At the same time, we need to facilitate a real choice for consumers to choose exactly zero-emission cars, and that is not the case today. Infrastructure must be developed and a network of zero-emission vehicle filling stations put in place. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we propose to spend $304 million. kr more for the construction of infrastructure for zero-emission vehicles in the transport sector – 100 million. kr more than the budget agreement provides. This shall be directly supported by Enova for the development of filling stations. We believe that this needs to be in place if we are to succeed in achieving the goal of new car sales in 2025 based on zero-emission technology. Without building this infrastructure across the country, we will of course not be able to expect to achieve this important goal we have set ourselves. We want to put in place a CO 2 fund using the NO x fund model for business transport, and we think it needs to be in place as soon as possible. We believe that it is wrong to wait until 2020. We must have a clear ambition that it will come into place faster than that contained in the budget agreement between the cooperation parties. The CO 2 fund shall provide grants for the additional investment costs of the primary zero-emission vehicle running on electricity or hydrogen, but also the low-emission vehicle running on, for example. biofuels and biogas can be supported. Industrial transport is responsible for twice as much emissions as private cars. Zero-emission solutions are becoming increasingly available also in heavy transport and shipping, but there is currently no incentive to replace old technologies with climate-right technologies. In the climate agreement of the previous period, a target was set for transport growth in and around the major cities to be taken by public transport, bicycles and corridors. Urban environment agreements are important and will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, but will primarily reduce local pollution and solve congestion problems in major cities. We're proposing to strengthen the bet by 1 billion. kr to next year. Railways are an important part of the collective effort and can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions as well as reduce local pollution and congestion problems. It is therefore sad to see that Solvik-Olsen and the government are not doing anything to re-establish the maintenance set-up when they propose to cut appropriations for the operation and maintenance of the railway. We in the Workers' Party believe that this is unsustainable, and we are therefore proposing to increase the appropriations for railway maintenance and planning to 955 million. kr – in addition to the government’s proposal. We're going to spend 100 million dollars. kr for zero-emission solutions in ferry traffic because shipping accounts for nearly one fifth of the emissions in the non-quota sector. This is a large area of potential for cutting, and we want to bet on green shipping. In the Labour Party, unlike the government, we have chosen to estimate the outcome of the climate proposals we are promoting towards 2030. Our proposals will cut emissions in the non-quota sector by more than 10 million tonnes in 2030, based on the figures operated by the Environment Directorate. I miss the government not doing the same thing with the draft budget they have presented. Under the Stoltenberg II government, we met the national transport plan. However, the current government has not followed up NTP in several important areas. Among other things, road safety, road safety and public transport measures and measures for walking and cycling are all areas where the government does not meet the conditions laid down by the Stortinget in the national transport plan in force. At the same time, the Minister for Transport spends a great deal of resources on costly reforms, while the large development projects have considerable cost benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2840	This is the last budget in this big period and, from my point of view, the last of a blue-blue government, hopefully. Good transport solutions are important for living and feeding throughout this long-range country. ‘By and land by hand’ is a well-known slogan from the 1933 Workers’ Party, but it is equally important today. Unfortunately, we have a government that does not follow this up, but only has faith in the market and is more concerned with ideology than with what is best for the whole country. Clear examples of this are the release of the Post, which has given a worse offer for many – it is enough to mention the Saturday papers – but we also see that the Right Party and the Advance Party will take this even further and propose to cut for even more postal transport days, which fortunately they did not get a majority in this Chamber a few days ago. We also see this in the reorganisation of the NSB, the Railway Agency and New Roads, and we look at it eagerly after selling ourselves down and out of state companies. We see that there is a lack of investment in broadband development. Here, the Solvik-Olsen Council and the government have only faith in the market. We've heard that today, too. But this creates a digital class distinction, so the big community has to step into a splinter layer of the market, as has been done in the past through history, for example. by providing electricity and telephone to all, irrespective of where you live in the country. That's not what this government has understood, and we're looking at the broadband subsidy item. This period the Workers' Party has granted 660 million. SEK in grants, more than 300 million. kr more than the proposal of the Right-wing Party Government. We already see today that there is a digital distinction, as access to high-speed broadband is only 37 pst. outside built-in strokes and 96 pst. in built-in struts. It is also disappointing to see that it is not planned to increase the offer to the districts when entering a new tendering period for short-haul aircraft. New criteria from the State Council of Solvik-Olsen and the government have created worse offers and lots of noise from a whole part of the country, from Nord-Trøndelag to Finnmark. We warned when the criteria were out for consultation, but for no use. Now, even the regions and municipalities concerned are not being sent to consult new timetables, as practice was in the past, and when we try to correct this in the budget we have to deal with today, the government parties are voting against, with the support of the Christian People's Party. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get The Labour Party and the Red-Green Government decided on the biggest rise in the transport sector in history when we adopted the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. It is the most ambitious plan of the time for the renewal of the transport sector, with a growth of 50 pst. There was a higher level of investment here, the lack of maintenance should be reduced, planning should be streamlined and the sector should be better organised. This has been tried by the Right Party Government, but they have not done so, despite their boasting that they have overfilled the NTP and granted 10 billion. kr more than frame. The same period has actually granted the Workers' Party 2.2 billion. kr more in its budgets than the Right Party Government. We've been able to do that because we've been prioritizing differently. We haven't given big tax cuts to the richest. The status after the blue-blue government period also shows that there are several road projects that are not being started, and there are several that are not being completed as planned. It's enough to mention – near where I live – E6 Helgeland. There will be cuts in the road package in the north, and there will be no start in the south as planned. Before the election, there was no way of promise from the Progress Party about what you should bet on in the field of transportation. Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government budget have now been adopted, and the voters themselves can go in and see the fasit. The budget has been so far 170 billion. kr less than the party of progress promised its voters, and it is 37 billion. kr more in tolls than what they promised their voters. Rather, when you choose to prioritize tax cuts for those who already have the most, and you see the huge sums that disappear to consultants and bureaucrat growth, you can only sum this up in one way: it's the election bluff of the times. It has also become more expensive for commuters in the districts. Tolls have increased, fuel prices have increased, commuter deductions and mileage compensation have been reduced. So even though Ketil Solvik-Olsen is trying to boast of a few dollars in tolls the next year outside the cities, this is being eaten up too many times by increased expenses. So to the Progress Party, who thanked us for the comments. I just want to remind you that this was in the NTP. We want more efficient toll collection and increased user-friendliness, but the greatest measure, with a mandatory piece for all, will not be included in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2859	It is an objective that more people should travel by collective means, bicycles and corridors, and that the growth of passenger traffic in the major urban areas should be taken with these modes of transport. I'll mention two important factors to get to this. First of all, smart planning. These are localisation policies – workplaces and housing that build up both during public transport and reduce the need for motorised transport. Urban environment agreements and the reward scheme are important State instruments to achieve this. Building infrastructure in the major urban areas is important. I would also like to point out the importance that this government introduced in 2015 the 50 pst grant for heavy infrastructure in the four largest cities. In the government's draft budget, it was set at 1 539 million. kr to urban environmental agreements and the reward scheme. In the budgetary agreement between the government and the cooperation parties, this increased by 466 million. kr. This will help to improve the urban environment and reduce queues, by investing in public transport in the nine largest cities. With this, the government and the cooperation parties have contributed over 6 billion. SEK for collective investment in cities, against SEK 1.8 billion. kr in the previous period. In this context, the majority point out that the allocations for urban environmental agreements and the reward scheme must be seen in the context of the interconnection of schemes for urban areas that conclude urban environmental agreements. The second point I want to mention is competitive public transport. According to the SSB, in 2015 more than 600 million collective trips were made in Norway. This was an increase of 4.9 pst. The largest carrier is a bus, which carried 356 million passengers, while the boat accounted for 11 million journeys. 234 million passengers traveled by rail, 73 million of which were passengers at the NSB. In order for people to choose to travel collectively, it is necessary to facilitate attractive public transport on both rails and roads. In a country like Norway, the bus will be the most important means of public transport in the future. Attractive public transport is about capacity, regularity, frequency and surface coverage. The four cooperating batches indicate that the passenger train offer with a higher frequency around the urban areas allows more people to choose the train as a means of transport. There are now about 100 more trains passing through Oslo than before, and the railway has had a massive passenger growth, not least in the Oslo area. This is not least due to a seamless transition between bus and track in the region. In this regard, I would like to highlight the importance of the Stortinget granting 105 million. kr to the urban areas, with NSB scaffolding. Without this, there would be a risk that tariff cooperation would cease. This would have considerable practical and economic consequences for the train commuters in Oslo and Akershus. In the wake of the draft budget, doubts were raised as to whether there were sufficient means of planning to target the whole intercity railway activity by 2030. The budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left increases planning appropriations by 280 million. kr, including VAT. It is assumed that the additional funds are used to ensure continued progress in the planning of the entire intercity area, right up to Halden, Skien and Lillehammer. The uncertainty about this issue would then have been cancelled. I would also like to point out the importance of increasing frequency on the distance routes, and refer to the majority proposal from Innst. 2 S for 2016–2017, the Stortinget asks the government: ‘Provide a two-hour base route on the Oslo–Bergen, Oslo–Trondheim long-distance routes and an assessment of the other Oslo–Stockholm, Trondheim–Bodø and Oslo–Gøteborg long-distance routes in the context of the investigation of material strategy and customer offers in the forthcoming call for traffic packages.’ I would particularly like to note the joy of the fact that one with this also puts a stronger focus on the cross-border sections Oslo-Stockholm and Oslo-Gøteborg. Good infrastructure is a pillar of a modern society, and the government will make this a competitive advantage of the nation. Business must get its goods and services easily and cheaply to the markets, at a low cost. Maintenance has unfortunately not been a priority under red-green control. Such appropriations give us no string to cut, but most people and business now start to notice how important this is to everyday life. Roads are getting safer and the railway is getting more reliable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2886	We have set behind us a political harvest, where the climate debate has been reduced to focus on a few ears in fuel taxes, which hardly have the effect of climate change. I believe that this has been serious in several ways – mainly because the entire budget procedure of the Storting has been put into play by a very unwise ultimatum from a minority government, but perhaps most of all because there has been hardly any debate about what action must actually be taken in the transport sector if we are to deliver on our climate commitments. And we will. With our alternative budget, we have presented a plan for achieving the emission targets. We point to sectors, we point to concrete actions to be implemented, base our calculations on the best expertise available to us, and present a complete plan for achieving the 2030 target. The transport sector is the key to it. We need a radical transformation of the whole sector, and it also bears our mark on the transport budget. People shouldn't move less. The goal is not for people to stop taking the car ride to the cabin on weekends. The goal is a total shift of technology. Then it's the decision about what kind of car people actually buy, which is important. For us, the goal is that there should only be zero-emission cars in sale from 2025, seriously meant. It will require that we continue to use the charging system actively and ensure that the charging system is involved in making the zero-emission cars competitive. Even with only zero-emission cars sold, we're going to have fossil-engined cars rolling on Norwegian roads for fearsome years to come. If these objectives are to be achieved, emissions must also be reduced from them. That's why biofuels are such a central part of our strategy. I'm pleased with the budgetary agreement at that point, but at the same time I would say that when we're going to escalate up to 20 pst. by 2020, we must be absolutely sure that there is enough sustainable biofuels in the market. That's a concern, and there we have to be absolutely sure that we have things on our hands – that the biofuel actually meets the sustainability criteria that we agree on, before we step up to 20 pst. In any case, we have to avoid traffic growth in big cities being in the form of car traffic. There is no room, and there are local pollution problems. The aim of traffic growth in the form of collective, bicycle and gangways is broadly anchored in the Stortinget, but unfortunately it is not taken seriously in the government's draft budget. In our alternative budget, we propose 1 billion. kr more than the government’s proposals for urban environmental agreements and reward agreements – 700 million. kr more to the urban environment agreements and 300 million. kr more to the reward agreements. As the previous speaker mentioned, the comparison meant 466 million. kr i plus the reward agreements, but overall we're still very far away from the level at which we should be at if we're going to take the Stortinge's own decision, the Stortinge's own goal, seriously. One of the things that was evident in the process and after doing the job we have done in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, that is, going through the numbers, looking at the 2030 target and weighing measures against each other, was that we need some proper action, as is the case with business transport. The emissions from there are twice as high as they are from private cars. Now comes the technology, it's on its way in, and we need the incentive to use it quickly. The CO2 fund is an important response to that. I can say that it is terribly far inside of the Workers' Party to propose to earmark parts of the fee proceeds. It's not something we do every week, to say it carefully. But we're proposing it now, because we're convinced that it's going to work. The NO x fund has been shown to have absolutely brilliant results. We believe in making binding agreements with the transport industry, of course with the possibility of withdrawing the money if the objectives are not met. It is gratifying that the Left and Christian People's Party has brought the government on the principle of a CO 2 fund. There's no need to say welcome after that point. It is good that there is cross-political agreement, but we believe that the progress of the settlement is too slow. And that's a clear call from us to the government parties: get into dialogue with the transport industry right away. Start negotiations as soon as possible – 2020 is too late. We want this in place as quickly as possible. It helps to strengthen the transport industry as such, and it is absolutely necessary if the 2030 target is to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2914	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2919	The Labour Party budget is a city and country budget, for housing and industrial development. In the Workers' Party, we will bind the country together. Governments and governments each year have allocated less money than the Workers' Party for transport. The major priority on the road was to cut taxes on them most from now on. The party of progress would scrape the red-green national transport plan just the ones that won the election. Now, State Councillor Solvik-Olsen strives to reach the level of ambition in the plan. The government is therefore pursuing a policy that increases disparities — not only between poor and rich, but also between city and country. The government is under-funding the county councils, which are responsible for the county roads and public transport – and the districts are losing. The government leaves to secure broadband coverage across the country to the market — and the districts are losing. The government liberalises the postal market, weakens the distribution of Saturday newspapers and will have fewer delivery days – and the districts lose. The government’s new bid for air routes is lower — and the districts are losing. The government does not follow up on the allocation of racial protection — and the districts lose. The government does not follow up the allocation of tunnel protection and the districts lose. The government is depriving coastal action and fishing ports — and the districts are losing. In my home state, Nord-Trøndelag, road projects are delayed. The line on E6 between Selli and Asp in Steinkjere municipality in Nord-Trøndelag was to be repaired and replaced. According to the State Road Administration Action Plan, it had to start in the period 2014-2017. It is not a priority in the government's draft government budget for 2017, and I just have to note that, despite too high national road appropriations, the government is not able to meet the first four-year period in the national transport plan. The same applies to the rail in Trøndelag. In considering the current national transport plan, an overall committee underlined the importance of launching the electrification and modernisation project for the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway as soon as possible. The Working Party has been pressing for the planning of the project to be carried out as quickly and coordinated as possible, with a priority of 850 million. kr more for railway investment than the State Council. If the Council of State is to stand by at least one promise to Trøndelag, the government must make the necessary funds available to enable the first works for electrification of the Trønderbahnen and the Meråkerbahnen to begin in 2017 and thus have consistent and effective progress towards completion as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2934	Untruths won't be true if they're repeated indefinitely. A lot has been said in the debate, and a lot could have been commented on. History is important, yes, and there is both a red thread and a blue thread. For eight years with red-green thread, Norway has hung on the wall in glass and frame and dusted down. We have highlighted Norway, dried by dust, and started a series of reforms that will be crucial for the proper development of Mother Norway in the future. Norway has to go up and down. We have to hang on to the swings if we're going to be on when that happens. That's why it's important that we look at what's happening outside the country's borders in the area of infrastructure. We in the Progress Party want to learn from what others have done – what works out, what is good, such as the creation of a road company, green data centres, the launch of the railways, fibre cables abroad, and not least a joint European agreement on illegal cabotage and aviation framework conditions. Aviation is the means of public transport that connects the country to the greatest extent. You don't get a good offer to most people if you don't see the connection between different routes, transport operators and other logistics. I want to go so far as to say that a plane is a bus with wings. And then it's kind of funny, what happens when I mention the word "bus" or, for that matter, "train". Then the pipe often gets a different sound. Then there is no way how important trains and buses are. The aviation industry has become what it is hacked into – it and the car. At one moment, flights should preferably not be found, all should be transferred to public transport – remember what I said, airplanes are the country’s largest public transport – but the next one is concerned that aircraft must be available, especially if you live ‘where no one would believe anyone could bu’. It's not on your fingertips. That's why we have to be as fair as we are in the Progress Party, and say yes, we want planes, and no thanks, we don't go over to horses and carts. Norway is a long-distance country. Without a plane and a car, Norway stops. Sometimes you can get the impression from some parties here that the policy that is being pursued is made with city glasses à la «made in Oslo only». In the Committee's examination of the budget, there is a lot of consensus, but also a lot of disagreements, such as: around the problem at Alta airport, as one can say very much about. The same applies to the majority that has been in the Committee for the advance of a new major aerodrome at Helgeland. Now the Left's representative has said that they will resign, so that it's not now a majority. I think that's a good idea given the treatment we're going to have when the new NTP is going to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2945	Then the last budget of this government in the period is presented, and it's time for summary. I'll limit myself to my county, Hedmark. Then it was not continuously expanding the E6 northwards to Lillehammer, continuously expanding the E16 from Nybakk and not just to Kongsvinger, but to the Swedish border, and there is no quadruple highway from Rena to Hamar. This was just some of the promises that the leading spokesman of the Progress Party in Hedmark promised the voters before the 2013 elections. When some of us – and it was well intended – said to the person that it might not be so wise to go so high on the track, because the height of the fall could quickly become high, the answer was that he and the Progress Party would fix this, just wait and see. We've done that, and the fasit is not much to brag about. For the toll lifting breach: If I am not completely wrong, the Progress Party has voted in favour of 17 new toll projects. They claim that they have no other choice because the bulk of the population is too large. Well, last week we discussed the matter of DAB, and the representatives of the Progress Party told us that they had been against introducing DAB since 2011, and then they voted against their own government – and the bulk of the population. And on questions to the government councils of the Advance Party, including Solvik-Olsen, we were told that it was perfectly right for them; they did not crash over the Storting, and of course everyone had to vote as they wanted. The Progress Party preached its resistance to bombing long before 2011, and if we are to follow the logic they used in the DAB case, it must now mean that they are for this highway robbery, as they call it, because here it is dealt with by bombings, promoted by the Progress Party Councils, which govern both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport – and the Progress Party in the Stortinget vote for each and every one. After the government change, and also today, we've heard a state council that speaks negatively about the red-greens in all its posts. He's spent more time on it than on his own policy. But I think he's being turned off by the representative Johnsen in terms of negative publicity and what we're going to owe him. A few weeks ago, measurements showed that the limit values for suspended particulates in Hamar were exceeded. Johnsen immediately moved into the locality and told them that these measurements were considerably exaggerated – here were the red-green ones on the track to spread fear, and used the measurements as an excuse to punish the drivers. For information: it is not the red-green who travels around and reads from measuring stations. However, unlike the Progress Party, we are concerned about the climate; we are concerned that action must be taken when air quality is poor. We believe it is right that people be informed, both in Oslo and in Hamar, when the limit values show red numbers, and we also believe that the transport sector must take part in the climate challenges. This isn't about punishing the drivers, it's about taking the environment seriously for us all, for the generations after us – yes, even for those who drive cars. Believe it or not, but they also depend on clean air and clean water.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2966	In this setting, important transport initiatives are mentioned in Eastfold. Planning of Rv. 19 in Moss, so that you can see it in connection with the railway, is mentioned and suggested by the Workers' Party. Similarly, the Workers' Party demands that the government deliver on the important fairway project Borg Hafen. Then we ask the government to start the planning work to reduce the thresholds in Ringdalsfjorden in Halden, a very important project for the industry in Halden and Østfold. With regard to the planning of new E18 from the Eastfold border to Winterbro, the Workers' Party is adding 20 million. kr – a very important road map for Eastfold, but no prioritisation was found by the government. This money first entered the government's budget as the agreement was a fact. It's worth noting. Intercity planning also failed to secure the Council of State. He did the opposite, he created uncertainty about the planning of intercity in Eastfold could actually continue, even though his own representatives in Eastfold have complained that the extension period is too long – they would cut it down. The Progress Party Councils responded by creating a great deal of uncertainty. With the Advance Party in government, the toll was to be removed. It was to be free to pass the bombs with the Progress Party in government, the leader of both the Progress Party, Siv Jensen – now Minister of Finance – and the major representative of the Progress Party, Bård Hoksrud, before the elections. We have it on tape, and no reservations were made. But it must have the State Council of Solvik-Olsen from the Progress Party – he now contributes with life and desire that the Progress Party in government does not deliver zero crowns in tolls for the drivers, as promised by the Progress Party, the Advance Party and the Council of State get a result of about 37 billion. kr i plus from the drivers in Norway during the years they have been in government. It's a powder-resistant result. Taste of the number: 37 br. kr more from the drivers in tolls with the Advance Party at the rudder. I don't think the drivers who were proud of the Progress Party didn't see it coming. I didn't see it coming either, it's just lifting the hat for the Toll Minister from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2977	Today, the Prime Minister has been in Alta to open new E6. It is joyful, but it also marked that the tolls have come to Finnmark. The representative Holmås gave the Minister of Transport the title of ‘the king of tolls’, and after three years Ketil Solvik-Olsen has integrated both Troms and Finnmark into his toll kingdom. So there had to be a Progress Party State Council and a Right State Minister to get the tolls in place all the way north of the country. This government has a lot to do when it comes to following up promises. A project that has not been put in place is the E8 in Breivika in Tromsø. For the Workers' Party, it is important that this road is put in place for business, the inhabitants and all walking and cycling. Let's take $40 million. kr to start in our alternative budget. This way should actually be in place already. It is part of the national transport plan, it is part of the action plan for the State Road Administration, it should have started in the period, but the E8 in Breivika is not a priority in the government’s proposals for the State Budget – not in 2014, not in 2015, not in 2016 and not in 2017. The road was not included in the budget agreement, and the Right and Advance parties did not even have room to mention the road in the comments on the State budget. All the municipality now has to deal with is a newspaper release, in which two large-scale representatives from the government parties say that this is working out. It doesn't last, you have to follow up the plans, make words into actions and put the money on the table. It is really a wonder that the Minister of Transport has managed to scrap the project until now. It's almost as eye-catching as the right promised a five-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr to the It was not small pieces: Erna Solberg said in 2013 that the Right wanted Ullsfjord connection, Tindtunnel, new Kvål connection and E8 in Ramfjord without tolls for a total of 5 billion. kr. So far, the spade isn't put in the ground on one of the projects. This was a government that went to the elections on executive power. What is best noticed in the Tromsø region after four years with Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the Right in government is not everything that is built, but everything that is not built. The elevators have melted up as the speed of the TV 2 toll camshaft. There is not a metre of Ullsfjord connection, the Tin Tunnel, the Kvalö link, the E8 in Ramfjord or the E8 in Breivika. It is possible that all of this would be all right if the Advance Party had followed up its election vow in 45 billion. kr more for transportation per year. It didn't happen. In 2013, the Right and Advance Party promised to scrap the red-green government's NTP if they came into government. It didn't happen. What they have put on ice, however, is their own promises to Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e2988	Over the years, there has been a lot of talk about the submarine U-864, which since it was torpedoed and sunlit at the end of the war, has doctors about 150 meters deep outside of Fedje in Hordaland. One of those who have said a lot about U-864 is FrPs and former member of the Transport and Communications Committee, Arne Sortevik. He said from this pulpit on 31 May 2010: ‘What about this submarine? First of all, it is too far from Oslo. Had it been at Langesund or in the Oslofjorden, it would have been removed a long time ago. Secondly, the submarine U-864 is a ticking environmental bomb with 67 tonnes of mercury on board – mercury that has been lying in the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland from 1945, stored in nearly 1,900 steel bottles. The water thaws on the bottles for each month running. Norwegian authorities have known about the cargo since 1999. It's been over ten years. The Party considers that this aspect of the case should be reviewed both by the National Audit Board and by the Committee on Control and Constitution.’.» He also said: ‘The time spent by the government on more investigation, more evaluation and more bureaucratic and political summer meal is time that should have been spent lifting the submarine and removing mercury in the summer of 2011. It is fully sound and fully possible.» On 14 April 2011, the Progress Party presented the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the lifting of the submarine U-864 and the removal of the mercury load as soon as possible, as well as the necessary post-processing with the protection of the contaminated seabed. The size is kept regularly informed of the progress of the project.» What is the status now 89 months after Arne Sortevik's post and after three and a half years with the Progress Party in government and with the responsible State Council? Well, U-864, what's left of him, is still in the same place. The Swedish Coastal Agency, under the auspices of the State Council of FrP Solvik-Olsen, is working on two alternative environmental measures. The one is the covering of cargo wrecks, and the other is the lifting of cargo with subsequent covering of wrecks and seabeds. For both options a support fill has been provided that needs to be set for six and a half years before anything can be done. The working party will have the most environmentally sound and safe management of the extremely dangerous mercury on the seabed outside of Fedje, but it is striking that in four years the government has not yet chosen to raise the U-864. I have to say that the rhetoric from the past, not least from this pulpit, and the promises given by the Progress Party and the Right up against the big elections in 2013 are now not in line with the policy, and that it was just a bluff.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3016	At E6 in Oppland between Ringebu and Otta, 39 people have died since 1990. 110 is badly damaged, and 568 has suffered minor damage, according to unofficial figures. Finally, the first stage is finished. Saturday this week there will be a folk party on the left. Then it opens the 33-kilometre E6 distance between Frya and Sjoa. But what about the rest of the project, stage two? When will it be done? In the Workers' Party and the Central Party's comments in the setting here today, we say that if the development of E6 Ringebu-Otta is not implemented in a coherent manner, it would be irrational and contrary to stated policy. There will be conflicts with the decision-making decisions taken both in relation to the toll bill and with the national transport plan. According to the current NTP, the Ringebu-Otta project shall be completed by 2023. Seas with a high frame now believe that the transport modes are not feasible until 2022-2023, i.e. when the road sections were to be opened after the original ambitions. The Minister of Transport has chosen to send the Ringebu regulation plan back to the municipality, while the State Road Administration asked for a government plan a year ago. It doesn't exactly testify about the executive power. The government and the Minister for Transport have talked very much about the fact that it is cheaper to build a complete and coherent road. But if nothing happens now quickly, the project management and the project organisation will be dissolved. A loss of competence and continuity, and the cost will be higher on the day of construction. There's no room for new big projects, it's said. But this is not a new project. It cannot be equated with new projects. It is even such that the toll for stage one also includes the collection for stage two. Much is clear: Property is redeemed, partially torn, and it is deforested on long distances. Three quarters of the areas of the remaining road construction are regulated. There are approved control plans for the section between Ringebu North and Frya and between Sjoa and Otta. This means that it is the right place for the construction of approx. 16 kilometres of the second stage with possible plant start in 2018, as the Workers' Party and the Centre Party write in the setting. At the tour in Gudbrandsdalen at the beginning of November, the fellow benches Olemic Thommess, which I assume is well known to the President, expressed support for the importance of expanding the remaining route on the E6 as soon as possible. In the Workers' Party, we have set things right. There is a proposal that we sincerely hope it could be a majority for here in the Grand Duchy. It says that we ask the government to facilitate the continuous development of the entire route Ringebu-Otta. It saves lives. That's smart. It is important for the export industry and travel life in the North West and Trøndelag, it is more reasonable than waiting, and the Gudbrandsdalen needs to complete the entire project quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3029	The watchful reactions along the entire Vestfold track when the government presented its proposal for the 2017 government budget. The lead promoter of the Transport Committee proclaimed just enough that everything was on track on the Westfold Railway, but it was before he had read the budget proposal and discovered that there was a complete lack of funds for planning the double track between Tønsberg and Larvik, and that a few hundred consultants were in danger of losing their jobs. And it was before people discovered that the government is adding to a review of the planning and development programme for the Drammen–Kopervikdalen and Nykirke–Barkåker sections when national transport plans are being addressed to spring. So we can't trust that this government is going to follow up the transport plan in the years that are coming, as the government parties promised in the election campaign three years ago. Nor do we have little reason to believe that the Christian People's Party and the Left will save the stumps in future budgetary settlements. However, instead of spending money on the planning and development of the railway network, the government has chosen to spend half a billion dollars on the reorganisation and fragmentation of the Railway Agency and the NSB. Passenger traffic is to be put out of competition and the railway works are to be divided into several different state companies and companies because the government parties believe that competition will make the railway more efficient. Of course, in other countries that have tried this prescription, it has not turned on. There is neither better nor cheaper railway – on the contrary. On the other hand, experience from the rest of the world gives good reason to fear the pulverisation of responsibilities and the reduction of security. Thus, at a time when the Railway Agency’s resources should be concentrated on the planning and deployment of the network, the Right-wing Party Government chooses to throw employees and management into a process of transformation that will paralyze the organisation for a long time to come. Conversion processes are difficult enough in themselves, and this is a shift that forces management and employees. Therefore, it may not be entirely without reason when the government in its government budget signals that, when national transport plans are to be presented to the Stortinget, they will re-evaluate targets, plans and development rates. We've seen it coming for a while. Instead of building up the planning capacity of the Railway Agency, the Minister of Transport has privatised the planning. It's also ideologically thoughtful.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3042	Cities are the drivers of regional development. Cities are also the drivers of the development of new solutions to meet climate challenges. The Nordic capitals are world leaders in setting ambitious targets and reducing climate change emissions. The solutions are different from city to city, and so it should be. The same applies to all major Norwegian cities. The Workers' Party believes that urban environmental agreements are a good tool to provide cities with the space they need to take good action based on local conditions and to increase the accessibility of all in a smart and sustainable way. It is challenging for cities to take the large costs of financing public transport. We have a system of very different funding models. In the case of the Railway, the State takes the entire bill. The mountain has railway from the east, where there is the lowest commuting into the cities, but there is a high freight activity. In the case of a new road to the south, E39, the country takes 60 pst. of the bill. Towards the west, which has the largest commuter activity and the most queue, we are waiting for a new Sotra connection, and it seems that the drivers have to take the entire bill – at least most. For the City Railway and Ringveg in Bergen, the state has financed on average 18 p.m. so far – the rest of the cars have been paying through tolls for 30 years. Tolls and other measures have now worked so well that private cars have fallen, giving rise to new challenges in financing and providing income bases for new investments. This development and inequality must be taken into account in the design of the different new urban environment agreements and the financing of environmentally friendly public infrastructure. The Labour Party believes that funding for collective infrastructure with as high a share of toll as it is now set up is a poor policy of sharing. That is why the Workers' Party has taken steps to increase the country's share of funding to 70 pst. But urban environmental agreements need to be established in cities. Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen and Kristiansand are waiting impatiently for agreements. The consequences of these agreements coming several years after their notification are large. Lack of agreement in the year to come may overturn the Urban Railway expansion in Bergen. It is very unfortunate that the government is unable to have better dialogue with cities and give them the predictability and local space they need to develop environmentally friendly transport and provide the necessary accessibility for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3058	It is always interesting to listen to this debate on how to deal with those of us who are interested in how to tie our country closer together. There aren't so many people who are busy with it, I guess. I also record that the government has received a different focus, and that it said one thing before the election that tolls should be wiped out, and that many projects around the country should be built, are waiting until further notice – probably until the parties come into opposition again. There are many hymns one could sing, so the chaff and leaves in the hymnbook. Something like this, too, but I'm going to focus on east-west relations today. Once again, we see that the government has cut down the E16's permissions on File Mountain. It is one of the interconnectors that the Council of State has talked about that he should complete. Now he's got 100 million strokes. kr of the agreed funds from the project, and it is not entirely related to what both he and the Left Party, which has once again also supported the proposal, said that a desire for coherent expansion. One would believe, if one listened to what was said in the previous period, that the council would rather use the funds to set new projects going east on the road down towards Vang and got the project running past the Fensens. There's nothing about it. One more cut. I do not know what the project has done to the State Council and the representative Abid Q. Raja and Left. It's hard to know, but for some reason it's all the time what it's all about. The E16 is moving forward towards Bergen, and I also hope that the Council of State will speed up that road – speaking of an accident-promoting road and a road that is almost inconvenient to run in a proper way. Another east-west road we're waiting for is highway 52. We are not surprised that the Council of State points to E134 – everyone is from a place, and the Council of State comes from Rogaland, so it was expected. But one had also expected that a reference to what the state road authority has repeatedly said is the other road that should be built in the long term, namely highway 52 over Hemsedal, which will cover the entire West, and will provide the entire West and the transport industry the way they want in the long term. We look forward to a national transport plan. The local representatives from the Progress Party have spoken warmly about the City of the Ship Tunnel, the Vikafjell Tunnel, E39, all the important projects that were promised. I hope the Council of State is ready to comply.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3071	There is no way to hear what should be heard in a debate like this. I think I would remind the House that in a very short time we are going to deal with strategic documents for transport in Norway over the next twelve years. We get NTP for treatment in Stortinget to spring. On 1 March it is one year since the Foundations presented their basic document, and one of the tasks to be carried out by this process is to draw up the projects to be built. The world isn't exactly the same now as it was four years ago. One thing that has been taken much more into account in the new basic document is the consideration of the climate and climate challenges and the implications of a transport plan. I have to say that I am a little surprised when I see one Labour Party representative after another coming up on the platform here and taking up road appropriations – to the local roads at home. Then one complains that it is being built piece by piece and divided. Yes, why do you build piece by piece and piece? On 25 November we opened stage number seven at E18 from Ørje to Akershu's border. The E18 on the east side of the fjord has eight stages. So there has been a tradition, obviously – perhaps under changing governments, there have been a lot of Labour Party governments in this period – that they have built and divided. And of course, doing this whole thing will also mean that you might have to re-prioritize something. The important thing is now to tackle the climate problem. In terms of climate, I think it's one relationship that's more favourable now than it's ever been, and that's that technology comes to our attention. If you have bought an electric car in the last few years, it has been an electric car that may have gone 10-15 miles before it had to be loaded. It's been a to-job car. It has brought people into and out of Oslo in the collective field. It's been very useful that way. The cars we're going to see, maybe from next year, are the number one cars – cars with a range of 40-50 miles. This means that you can travel on a cabin on one charge. It's something else than what we've been used to. I think the transition to climate-friendly car transport will not happen linearly, but that it will happen exponentially. This will happen quickly because we now get a market where it is possible to buy cars that are actually decent. So the question is, do we want to replace the car park quickly enough? Yes, there may also be tools for this, including: wreckage arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3084	Good infrastructure is one of the most important measures to strengthen the competitiveness of business. Holes and poor roads have costs for both cars and drivers and are not least very bad for the climate, as they require increased fuel consumption. Therefore, the large-scale effort to resume the maintenance kit run is so incredibly important. It also applies to railway. If we are to succeed in transferring more goods from road to road, predictability on the railways is one of the most important measures to get more carriers to choose a path in front of a car. They must be sure that the goods arrive when it is to be. Then the railway sleepers cannot hang in the loose air due to poor maintenance of the track body. As a state politician, I am very pleased that much more money is allocated to the county roads, by 1.5 billion. kr more than that contained in adopted NTP. It is also important for county councils that the interest-rate compensation scheme has been continued so that investments can be made more quickly and that tolls go directly to road construction and not to pay interest. For the transport of nutrients in rural areas in particular, it is important to have bottlenecks rusted up, such as: bridges, so that one can run with the required axle load and use a modular wagon train on continuous routes. This government has had the aim of using new solutions and new ideas, not least in order to build more ground for money. Analysis comparing road construction in Sweden and Norway shows that there are considerable differences between project implementation and design, including standard and design options. And we've seen that it seems to think new. The cost of the extension of the motorway between Arendal and Tvedestrand, which is now under New Roads, has been reduced by 0.5 billion. kr. I am also extremely pleased that we finally get a new, continuous E6 from Ulsberg in the south to Åsen in the north with motorway standard for nearly 27 billion. kr. This route is located in Nye Veier's portfolio. We have noticed that the red-greens in the South-Tronde Team, with the Workers' Party at the head, are very sorry that it is now being built a much larger road project than what was previously planned during the reign of their friends: a clumsy repair of the E6 south to 7.8 billion. kr, which would not have been completed before 2032, according to NTP. In addition, we are waiting to roll out the excavators in Sokndalen when the quality assurance of the project is completed in these days, because Midtre Gauldal was able to build a tunnel in order to build a safer and safer road and to capture less cultivated land. We always have to ask ourselves whether we're doing the right things and whether the right things are doing the right thing. It is our responsibility as politicians to manage the goods of the community in the best possible way. Then we must constantly seek new and better solutions. That's exactly what this government has delivered very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3099	It is important that the Storting recognize the challenges facing the districts. Many municipalities need a good infrastructure. In today's society broadband is a very important part of it. What's so nice about the digital world we live in is that it builds up city and land in a completely different way than it ever does. If we want people to live in all of our long-range country, we also need to facilitate that. Where in 2016 the amount of application for broadband development grant schemes amounts to a total of 466 million. kr, it shows that the need is great. Despite the fact that there are also municipalities that have projects that do not qualify for support, there have nevertheless been 102 applicants in 2016. When less than one third of them were granted support, the Workers' Party says that we have to go further. It is therefore very regrettable that the government instead cuts into the scheme that ensures even more broadband access. The Labour Party believes that the State must have its hand on the steering wheel to ensure the continued development of broadband in Norway. We don't want a class distinction where the services you get depend on how central you live. In the region that I'm from, Setesdal, you can sign with good plots at good prices in very natural surroundings, but it doesn't help much if you can't offer opportunities for work. A good digital infrastructure offers better opportunities for creating new jobs. They may be online companies, but it could also mean working for a company in Oslo from an office in Bykle. The market idea of the government probably works better in theory than in practice. In the countryside where I live, there is no competition to expand broadband. Building the projects that are left now, on the other hand, gives companies a loss. For this reason, the municipality has adopted a municipal aid scheme to enable more projects to be realised and to ensure more broadband access. It is at the expense of an already heavily pressed local economy. It may not be without reason that the slogan of the Progress Party is 'for the most people'. In the Labour Party, on the other hand, we are concerned that ‘all should join’. You have to have equal opportunities. It will not be by cutting this grant scheme. That is why the Labour Party is proposing an increase. We've put in 200 million. SEK to the broadband development grant scheme in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3114	The transport debates here at Stortinget are a trip around Norway, and I will invite you on a trip to Finnmark. We have a lot of projects we can put our finger on. I'm going to start with one of the areas that is very important to us – fishing port development and traffic controller. It's a little sad to read that this isn't being prioritised enough, given the needs of Finnmark states, especially when it's already in the NTP period. We record that the projects are being down-prioritized. Everyone knows that fishing means a lot to Finnmark. There has been a debate earlier today in connection with industry. Then at least you got figures for the amount of value creation it is. Therefore, infrastructure in the form of fishing ports is very important to our county. The working party raises this up and allocates more money to local and regional development. The pot we put in, increases by more than 20 million. kr. Today another parcel opens on the E6 west of Alta. That the Prime Minister chose to be present on this mark is excellent. The red-green government received appropriations for E6 west of Alta into the state budget many years ago. That today's government is following this up, is good. We also have to be satisfied that an additional 328 million is allocated. kr for roll-over. It was mentioned instead of my party colleague Martin Henriksen that there were tolls on the E6. It's not. It was once, and it was perhaps the only time the Progress Party in the government has managed to remove a bomb. It was in Alta. I'm glad that new bridge over Tanaelva, the upgrade of rv. 94 plus E6 Female Mountain and some tunnels on the way to North Cape as well as rv. 93 divides, but it's too late. The representative Tor André Johnsen was in on the project Nye Veier. I can just say that there won't be new ways through that project in Finnmark. What's not good is that the government council so sovereignly chooses to ignore the fact that the tax money can be reused using the E6 west of Alta. Then I think especially about the airport and the expansion in Alta. That Avinor says no, the Council of State with a pen stroke can try out through a letter of promise. It is disappointing to see that he chooses to dump many, many million tax dollars at the bottom of the Alta Earth – when they could have been used to increase security over Alta airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3131	I have with pleasure studied the position of the Transport and Communications Committee under the heading. 1311, Grants to regional airports. The notodden airport was established in the 1950s at the request of local and regional business. The aerodrome is 100 pst. by the Notodden municipality, and it has been a challenge to find municipal operational resources in the annual budget work. No state aid has been granted from year to year, but not to such an extent that further development has been possible. This state budget shows a joyful shift. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left support further operations at the airport and commit the necessary funds to the Tower Service. That's good. It prevents the closure of Notodden Airport. The working party refers to the same development possibilities in its budget. They make the same financial contribution, but do not bind the aid unilaterally to the tower service. The Workers’ Party and the Centre Party stress that within the five-year agreements for aid to non-governmental airports, it is also necessary to open up parts of the aid to be used for the purchase of air services. The aid intends to improve predictability and a good basis for development at these airports. This is important. It offers good opportunities for further development and innovation, and not just for surviving one more year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3138	The U-864 has been brought forward in today’s debate – and not to contribute to a constructive solution, but only used rhetorically. As you can see, the cargo has been known since 1999. It should have given the Worker's Party and the red-green full opportunity to do something about this matter. They didn't — out of fear of an unpopular decision? Maybe. This government has done as promised and actually started the work. It was already known in 2005 that one had to stabilise the slope, regardless of the solution chosen. The death penalty to the Norwegian coast should be too important even for the Workers' Party to protest rhetorically with. So let's stick to the facts and use the time that the back-up needs to sit down, constructively. It's taking all the time to talk about the snow as a fall last year, tending to little, but it's clear that eight years of red-green, socialist politics have influenced Norway. In the transport sector, this is most evident through the lack of ability to prioritize and obtain currency for the money. Despite increased use of money, maintenance will also increase under the red-green regime. That's the facts. The civil plural stands for novelty, and Norway has gone from increasing decay under red-green rule to upgrades throughout the country. This is what people start to notice in everyday life. There is a historical commitment to trade, and it has been a real trend shift. The transport sector must play an active role in addressing the negative impacts generated by the sector, and good environmental policy is about having solutions that can actually be implemented. Punishing people through ever-increasing taxes and taxes is wrong. In this area, too, it must actually be created before it can be distributed, and in this context, I am thinking that it is the possibilities that must be created and the responsibility that must be shared out. We need to develop the environmentally friendly options, we need to strengthen innovation and research, and we need to make it easier for people to make the right choices. This is an important guide for our policy. And the fact is that the Right and Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, deliver far better instruments within the environment than the former government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3153	The Workers' Party's journey promise came in 2005. Then we made a plan to resume the maintenance run on the road and track. Every year we followed up this effort, and in the 2017 budget we have one billion more than the Progress Party to further strengthen the effort. The councils talked about the importance of getting more goods on the keel, but little happens. One example is the conditioning system. Why do we have to fight to make him realize that the device does not hit, and that we should take action to get this system to become attractive and to get more people to wreck old boats? The government itself seemed very pleased with this, but if everything is so much better with the Progress Party in government, why is this not a system that works, and why is NTP not being followed up? In the NTP, there were 3 billion leads. kr from the Stoltenberg government to get more goods on the keel. Governments and government are over 500 million. kr according to plan already. There is a need here for a set of tools and measures to change what everyone is talking about. Then we also need a government that takes hold. In Halsa and Hemne municipalities, many have been committed to getting a better way. Yes, they have even worked 250 meters with a yellow stripe. It is to make it visible that there is now a need to complete an important road map on Route 39. Europe Road – you really shouldn't believe it when you drive there. The new road has become good where we have taken hold, but there is a good part left. There is a lot of heavy transport there that contributes to the demanding safety of following the road. It is also important to improve the route between Bethna and Stormyra now, so that we do not see a European road as a cultural heritage. The Labour Party has put money into this section, and I must say I am disappointed that the government did not find the necessary money to contribute with start-up funds there. Then it's worth mentioning that the crab field on the Ørskog mountain is also a priority in the NTP, but not a priority of the government. The same applies to the E136 Upland border-Redstøl route. I notice that there are nine counties who have had worse roads with this government. In half of Norwegian counties, the highways have become more uneven and poorer. Hordaland, who is relocated to Toril Eidsheim, has the country's worst road standard, while the deterioration is greatest in More and Rome's valley. We can't be satisfied with that. This shows the report on the quality of the Norwegian road network with a national and county road status. It shows that the road situation is worse in the West. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3162	Here we get a situation description that is black like the asphalt government and the Christian People's Party and the Left Rolls out across the country. So now we are told that the roads are getting worse in nine counties in this country, probably because one points to the maintenance seat run because the county councils have not given enough money for maintenance. The fact is, however, that there were 19 counties who had increased the maintenance run under the previous government — the fact is that under the previous government, there was an increase in the maturity of all national roads. Now the maturity is cut. Under the previous government, the maintenance seat drivage on the railway increased. It's doubled in eight years, now it's being cut. When the representative Gullvåg here is concerned about the planning of the railway and gives the impression that it is privatized, it is completely meaningless, especially when we know that the appropriations for the planning of the railway were about 200 million. NOK when the working party went off, and it was SEK 1 700 million. Now kr. What kind of picture is it that the mass riser is trying to give to the people? It's obviously not based on facts, and I think that's very sad. Many of the posts that have now been are not about letting ideas break up, or about clear priorities between different modes of transport, but it is about creating a completely wrong picture of what has actually happened. I think that's sad. In the case of U-864, it's already been answered. But a lot has happened there in recent years, after many years of investigation. Then we're not in goal, but now at least things happen. In the case of tunnel maintenance, we got criticism of that from the Workers' Party. The Labour Party has seen the budget that they themselves presented in 2013, with a budget of 610 million. kr, and the budget currently adopted, of 2 585 million. Do you really want to delete this item? I'm not ashamed. Many have discussed the CO 2 emissions. I think it is important, and the government should be involved and help to cut it. However, I would like to remind you that the increase under the previous government was half a million tonnes from the transport sector, so emissions have decreased according to the 2015 figures that have come from the SSB today. So the criticism that is being promoted is not based on reality, but on wanting to scare the inhabitants. I think big-time politicians should stick to that too well. We also see some level when the representative from the Workers' Party in Troms first gives the impression that a new road project is now being opened in Finnmark, which is toll-financed – obviously a project he does not know, because the project is not toll-financed – and then the representative from the Workers' Party in Finnmark comes and admits that there is no toll, and that is probably only the one project where the government has removed tolls. No, the fact is that we have removed tolls on eight projects decided by the Workers' Party should be toll-financed. This government has done a lot, but it's quite right, we haven't got a majority to cut tolls as much as we would like, because the Labour Party, at the latest in this budget now, is voting against toll cuts. So they use their speaking time to ask for a toll cut. It doesn't harmonize. There is no link between the Labour Party's policy and the criticism they promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3176	This is an incredibly interesting debate. To take the opposition seriously, one must really get the impression that there is a crisis in Norwegian transport policy. You get the impression that both road, rail and everything that's involved in transport are really neglected by today's government. It's pretty interesting to sit here and listen to. Had I now been a voter who did not know what to vote, I would have been completely confused, for the fact is that there is an enormous lifting of today's government implementing on transportation. I said that in my previous post and can repeat it: we have increased the appropriations by over 50 pst. Since we joined the government, we overfill the NTP. That there should then be reason for such a violent black paint, criticism and crisis maximisation, I think is a little special. I can start with tolls, because there we get a lot of criticism, I register. I just want to remind you that since the fall of 2013, when we became a government, we have reduced the need for tolls by over 2 billion. kr in relation to what originally lay there from the red-green. Remembering a one-year-old VG article, it indicated that the government reform would give about a year. 30 pst. toll tax. With toll bar on the Nye Veier project, e.g. on the E6 northwards through the Inland, it was possible to get 10 pst. Discount on E6, we double that discount to 20 pst. We're taking more of the grips that make it cheaper on the side roads as well. We tried to remove toll stations on E16 to Kongsvinger. Unfortunately, it was blocked by a red-green county council, but after a little debate and a patient Minister of Transport, they ended up with 50 pst. toll discount, so we also grab a lot of the sideways. The best example is Vestfold – that is a good example to show. There was the initial cost of driving through the entire Vestfold NOK 114. So the price began to go down and is now 57 kroner. You take a grip, like lower interest rates and longer payoffs, and then you also have the opportunity to remove the boom on the side roads. There's a lot of positive and sensible happening. When it comes to E6 not being built continuously, I think it is a bit interesting to get criticism for it. That's exactly what we're doing right now. In the red-green NTP there was a stop, there was a stop in Brumunddal, you shouldn't even start building to Brumunddal before some time before 2023. Now you start building for next year, but in our NTP we don't stop in Brumunddal, we build on to Moelv and all the way to Lillehammer. There's absolutely nothing to criticise, it's a massive uplift in relation to the Workers' Party. Here the Workers' Party meets itself at the door, because in 1962 they actually added up to being finished by 1980. If you are to criticise someone for a breach of promises, the Workers' Party is responsible for the breaches of the promises – at least not today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3189	I have noticed in this debate that the Solvik-Olsen Council of State refers to itself in very commendable order. Apart from that, he's talking about the previous government. What he forgets to mention about the previous government is that it is the national transport plan that the government put forward and adopted, which is the basis for the efforts that are now taking place. In Westfold, if we're honest, we've been getting good at our transport investments for many years. There has been considerable investment in E18 – it has been clear that there will be four fields since former Minister of Transport, Terje Moe Gustavsen, got it fixed in the national transport plan in 2001 – and there has been a railway investment. But all the efforts that have been made up to now have been made on the basis of the national transport plan of the previous government. When State Council Solvik-Olsen cuts strings, he does it because it was a red-green government that made sure that there were big investments. On the first occasion when you're going to start discussing the next period, I'm asking you if you're going to implement the railway investment that the previous national transport plan decided that we should do in the next period, namely internal intercity in 2024 and external intercity in 2030. We're clear on that. When the state budget was presented, the representative Morten Stordalen said that everything was on track, but had to admit later that this was not his reading of the budget document, because he had not read it. So it was found that there was a stop in the appropriations to make the necessary investigations to build up in line with the agreed plan. It is a major problem for railway development, but it is also a major problem for the municipalities of Larvik, Sandefjord and Tønsberg, which have to plan how to organise their municipality, and do not know where to find routes and stations. We hope that we can get ahead of what we have at least allocated money to it. Instead, we have not got a stake on the railway, but on the railway infrastructure company Bane NOR SF – i.e. more bureaucracy. It is likely that there will now be more money for planning, but for us in Westfold, it is nevertheless imperative to follow the process of national transport plan, so that the plans for the next period will not be worse than was already foreseen when the current national transport plan was adopted. Finally, we in Westfold are also looking forward to the Vestfold cities becoming part of the urban environment agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3207	I think I have to comment on some of the comments we have had so far in the debate. I understand that it may be painful to be reminded of the responsibility for the maintenance seat suspension that we have been subject to for many years. I'm not going to say that it's because of one government alone, but the fact is that during the eight preceding years, there's no action taken to reduce the maintenance run, either by highway or by rail. It's not going to get away from it, it's a fact. Then maybe when a stock alternative state budget for 2017, both for the Center Party and for the Workers' Party, one would believe that at least one might be able to increase the maintenance item. No, you don't. Despite the fact that these two parties sent the bill to the taxpayers in the form of 10 billion. kr plus increased tax bill for both companies, jobs and Norwegian business owners, one might think that one could increase the investment in maintenance and further reduce the maintenance run, but it is not within the alternative budget of these parties. There has been a lot of discussion about tolls. I would like to remind you that in fact, if we look at the toll share, that is, the share of toll financing for the total road financing, it was 40 pst. in 2014, while it is at 30 p.m. in 2017. This indicates that we are actually able to reduce the relative toll percentage in total. Although tolls are still being collected on many important projects, at least we are reducing the relative share of total road financing. It's a point in itself and should have enjoyed all the toll critics who have been up here and spoken before me today. Enquirying the acceleration of many projects. Yes, of course it is desirable to speed up road projects and railway projects as much as possible. But if you want to speed up a road project, you also have to spend money on it. Many of the projects mentioned here before today – Kjerkol mentioned e.g. E6 Selli–Asp, a project with relatively large cost increases, is also not a priority in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget. Sønderud and Hagebakken called for a continuous expansion of E6. Well, why isn't it planned like this in the national transport plan, one of whom is so proud? Why isn't a continuous expansion of E6 planned by those who are standing here and asking for it? I think it almost becomes a little unprofessional. The bottom wanted a crab field on the E36 and on the E39. I would like to realise that for my part, we come from the same county, but also those projects are not prioritised in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3216	For business and for the people of the north, it's a blessing that we have a government that actually understands the part of the country. Northern Norse business is then swindling, and the main means of supporting business and whether the population is just government's investment in transport. With better roads, Northern Norse business is also strengthened. I am pleased that the government has increased the share of North Norway in national road investments, from under 15 p.m. under the red-green to over 20 pst. today. Yes, in actual dollars it's doubled. With the 2017 proposal, it will be invested for a total of 12 billion during this large-scale period. kr in North Norway, while in the previous period it was just 5 billion. kr, an increase of 140 pst. It notices, I can promise you. In addition, it is noticed that the roads are now being maintained – it is very joyful. After decades of growing maturity, this government has reduced its maturity by many billions, and the maintenance run has stopped. In Northern Ireland, we have a lot of highways. In these years there has been a formidable bet on these roads, in fact it's delivered almost twice as much on the county roads. With the red-green scheme, Nordland could expect about 630 million. kr. After four years with the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we can note ourselves twice as much. It shows that it means something who sits in government offices. I am also pleased that the government is using many new solutions. On the Hålogalandsweg between Harstad, Evenes and Sortland, the government has sent out a regulatory plan for consultation. There is a record in rapid planning, and we can rejoice that the government has chosen OPS and government plan for this project. The Government’s efforts to speed up the planning of key projects are necessary to ensure rapid development of transport. As I said, the government has been a blessing to North Norway, even when it comes to better transportation. Now the good driver has to keep going, and that's what the government is adding up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3237	The railway routes to the cities are important for people living outside the cities and commuting daily to the workplace. The use of rail is good for the climate, it relieves the pressure on housing in cities, and it allows people to live in the districts. The government has on its guard made it more expensive to commute by gradually reducing the value of the commuting deduction. People pay more to get to work. Last year the commuters were promised cheaper train trips after the government had negotiated with their supporting parties. 20 pst. Discount on monthly cards in 2016 was the message from the Left after last year's budget negotiations. For train commuters in Hadeland, that means a good deal," said the Left's Ketil Kjenseth. But here they sold the skin before the bear was shot. The discount did not apply on the Gjøvik Railway. The result is that it is more expensive to take the train from Gran than from Eidsvoll, even though it is equidistant. Now, the journey from Gran is twice as long as a similar journey from Eidsvoll, but it seems quite random that you still have to pay more for a similar journey. I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the Center's party are united on appropriations that ensure that commuters at Gjøvikbanen do not have to pay more than others. That should be left hand support today. But the Gjøvik Railway needs more attention, because it is an important route in the East with a large passenger potential for commuter traffic. Without excessive investment, it is possible to develop the route to carry a larger volume of transport than is the situation today. There are several passengers on the track despite relatively limited investment by means. On Gjøvikbanen, there is a need for more crossing tracks, a new map of the Year, better power supply and other general upgrading. I'm glad that our budget arrangement facilitates the travel time between Gjøvik and Oslo coming down for an hour and a half with hourly departures both ways. This is the day for the small and big things, and I finally want to mention a small matter, but it is quite significant to many. In Hadeland it is invested in a new, nice railway station in Harestua. There is the parking space too small. The landowner, Lunner general, has said they're making up for free. Lunner Municipality has said that they can do the design work. The answer – and I don't know if it's from the Railway Infrastructure Company or anyone else – is that no, commuters can drive the car across the county border and park at one of the stations in Nittedal. At least it is not climate-friendly what is proposed, and I think the Council of State could ensure that there is better room for commuting than is the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3248	The trade promise started without any doubt with the Stoltenberg government in 2005, but perhaps too fully in 2009 with the NTP that got an increase of 45 p.p., and not least with the one we're running after today, from 2013, where it was further boosted from collapse and government by 50 p.p. You don't want to mention that story, but you're still very busy taking the story back in time. None of the speakers from the Progress Party and the Right who have stood on the Chair have chosen to mention a word about the budgetary options for the Labour Party during this period. You want to look back in time. I think maybe you should look forward too. You don't choose to do that, and then maybe the comparison won't be right. If you choose to take that comparison, and then you have a slightly worse comparison, because then it's actually 2.2 billion. kr more below the finish line when we sum up this four-year period in the Labour Party budget. This means that there is more to the road and more to the track and also to the maintenance, as some try to say that the Workers' Party does not care. It's directly wrong. So to the councillor, who again points out from the pulpit that he won't sell out anything, and at least he won't sell out the NSB. Then it'll be again what we're used to from the Progress Party – they say one thing in government and another thing outside. A few days ago, we were able to read from the Progress Party program design that they're just going to sell out the NSB. Then we very much wonder whether it is the government-frp that will be allowed to decide and govern, or whether it is the programme committee that is going to set up the policy for the next four years that we are going to listen to. To it with a bomb: I don't remember voting for the projects that have been submitted in the period we have now had. If you wanted less tolls, I would have expected the government to put it in. We have voted in favour of the projects that have been there. If you wanted to take them down, you had to suggest something else. I have registered that it has also not been done by the Progress Party in the government. Then you can try again – take it in a different way in the hall as FrPs are than the government has done. We have experienced that painfully. Just outside my living room door E6 Helgeland. Everything doesn't go so well in the north, although a lot goes well in the north, because you cut there. They cut the Helgeland North road package even though the Council of State stood fourteen days ago and said to look at the possibility of extending it. You cut in Helgeland South, and you cut the toll. You've done that, but what was the original project? Then the road package Helgeland was inside with 20 pst. Discount. When it came to Stortinget, it was 10 pst. Discount, so it's not so violent if you once again raise it to 20 pst. Discount. That was what was originally intended for those who were going to drive on this route.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3259	I have to say that I am quite proud of the national transport plan that we red-green had adopted in 2013. That's what the government is running after now. That's what you're essentially taking credit for. There are a lot of good solutions lying there. But what we're registering is that the government hasn't followed up on ports and fairways, you're looking for racial protection, you're also lagging behind with a number of road projects that were supposed to have started. As far as the railway is concerned, it has become better after the agreement – I will be very clear on that, and I have already said that in the debate – but the uncertainty about electrification of the Trander Railway is still there. E16 File Mountain is subject to annual cut. What makes you have such ambitions to cut just on that distance? At least it's not complete expansion like I'm interpreting total expansion. Broadband has little ambitions for, at least outside the big cities, and at least where market players are not willing to expand. Those who sit and do not get the good solutions when digitising more public services, assuming that more people are going to use newspapers online, are the same as do not have broadband today. That's what the Center Party thinks is too bad. It gives rise to a lot of frustration when you see that others have good solutions, and you don't get them yourself in the near future. The center part is going to do something about it, so we're going to add 200 million. Extra kroner for that. Saturday news continues to float in the blue. The centre party will ensure this. The centre party will have a stronger commitment on its way, and we have used some financial resources to strengthen, for example. E39 Betna–Stormyra, E39 Byrkjelo–Sandane, E39 Sande–Myrmel, E6 Grong–Nordland border, E6 Helgeland–Brenna–Brattås–Lien, E6 Helgeland north through Dunderlandsdalen, E16 Bergen–Voss, E16 Øye–Turtnes, E16 Ferenen south–Hande, E18 Retvet–Vinterbro, rv. 9 Bearså – Optestæll og rv. 22 crossing of Glomma. And we're strengthening racial protection by 200 million. kr. The central party wants the city and the country to stand together, but then the country must also be built together.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3276	Let me take three minutes to come up with facts about local air pollution since the Council of State can hardly be said to contribute. In 2001, diesel cars accounted for more than 10 pst. the sale of new cars in Norway. In the years in which the Progress Party was involved in driving the car tax policy, this country increased to 40 pst. The trend then continued up to 50 pst. in 2006, with the same charging system. It is true that the conversion of taxes in the 2007 budget year led to an increase in diesel car sales, but it went from 50 to 75 pst. Increase? Yes. But does it provide the basis for saying that there was a red-green policy that alone filled the cities with diesel cars? No, you're going to have a humiliating relationship with the truth to mean that. The diesel car sales remained around 75 pst. For four years, until it began to fall – for three main reasons, as I see it. Firstly, there was a winter in 2010 with poor air quality, which speeded up a debate on harmful diesel emissions, environmental differentiation through tolls and other diesel restrictions. Secondly, a local charge component was introduced into the one-off fee, which SV and I had been eager to introduce. Thirdly, electric car sales began to come, and especially around cities with large pollution, due to tolls, collective fields and parking benefits. Later came favorable solutions for rechargeable hybrids, driven through by the Christian People's Party and the Left. The trend has continued until today, and diesel car sales are now 35 p.m., according to the State budget. What has the government done? Nothing. They have not made proposals to increase the local fee component of the one-off fee, it has been provided to the Left and Christian People's Party. The Progress Party opposes local diesel bans on municipal roads in Oslo. Locally specific emission requirements for taxis answered Ketil Solvik-Olsen that he was against, on questions from me, but the government turned around after Abid Q. Raja and I made suggestions, and the bill was passed on Christmas. Environmental differentiation at the bombings is not yet in place, despite the fact that the State has promised to put it in place around Oslo in March 2018. It's not likely to come in time, because of the sommel from Ketil Solvik-Olsen. The Government has not proposed low-emission zones. It had to be promoted and supported by the Left, against the votes of the government. After Ketil Solvik-Olsen refused to follow it up, the Workers' Party promoted a bill, which was passed. When the regulation was due to be drawn up, Solvik-Olsen sent a proposal that excludes Bergen and Oslo from using the low-emission zones. Now is a new proposal for consultation. Now it has taken so long that nothing indicates that the municipalities have taken low-emission zones into use this winter rather. The administration was convicted by the EFTA Court of Justice of the lack of a plan to ensure clean and safe air for its citizens. As the bulk of the population required such a plan, the government parties voted against it. The government has not yet submitted such a plan. Meanwhile, healthy sick, sick sick and the sickest die. The best thing about local air pollution was to change government, the state council was Ketil Solvik-Olsen's flaky comment. I hope so – tomorrow, there will be health-damaging air in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3293	What's really sad is that we have a government council that doesn't agree and takes responsibility for 200 consultants losing jobs when the government removes the planning funds to the Westfold Railway. Then, of course, we can discuss whether this is privatisation or not, but according to my concepts, it is what it is. And it's just as sad that the council doesn't mention that the planning costs shoot in the weather and go to heaven under his regime, and that the railway works now depend entirely on the leveling competence that exists outside the floor. Those who listen to this debate must get the impression that it is the railway that is supposed to save the Paris Agreement, but it is not the railway itself that reduces climate emissions. The main reason why we have to bet everything we can to build double tracks in the intercity triangle in the East is the huge transport capacity of the railways in a transport system to ensure that a growing population is able to meet its transport needs. A double-track railway has a transport capacity corresponding to two parallel quadruple roads, and without double-tracks from Lillehammer to Skien and Halden, the transport system in the eastern part of the country will collapse sooner or later. This is what railway development is all about. It's urgent, actually, because transport planning takes time – too long, someone will claim. But it's not just railway plans that take time. Municipalities depend on the railway system to move on in their spatial and nutrient planning. Tønsberg, Sandfjord and Larvik depend entirely on future railway tracks to develop their municipalities, and at the airport at Torp, the location of a new railway station is a trigger for commercial areas with a potential of 15 000 jobs. It is these contexts that are so important and that justify increased planning effort on the railway. I hope that the Council of State, when he comes to the knowledge of truth, will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3300	It's, I think, fun to discuss politics when we disagree about things and try to figure out which solutions are best, but some posts here I don't think exactly about discussing politics; it's just about trying to create the most negative image of the counterparty, regardless of whether it's true or not. This last article was an example of this – a headline in a newspaper that 200 consultants can lose their jobs, although the Railway Agency has said that we have barely 200 consultants in the region. That's not right. It's just not right. And repeating it from the Greatness Chair doesn't do it any more correctly. But now we're adding even more money to the planning. It's gone up from about 200 million. NOK 1500 million. kr in the government budget and has now gone up to a further 1 700 million. kr. The last ones that should criticise the level are the ones that crashed, that didn't get over the 200s – when today's majority has 1,700 million. kr i plus to plan. In fact, the intercity planning funds in 2017 are almost as much as the Workers' Party had planned to use for the entire ten-year period in its national transport plan, which they are very proud of right now. The sad thing about the National Transport Plan of the Workers Party is that they had not even planned to finance it, because in the budget submitted by the Labour Party Government before it left in 2013, there were cuts in appropriations for road and rail maintenance. There was a tiny increase in planning appropriations, but far from the level that one would need. The first thing a civil majority had to do, both on the road and by rail, was to increase the appropriations for planning, maintenance and investment. So if the Workers' Party believes that their plans are good, they've meant it for 40–50 years, from the time they put forward their national highway plan. The problem was that one never got on. That's the difference between those who now rule in this hall and those who have previously ruled. It will also be the same answer to the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, about what he is talking about. Why didn't Dag Terje Andersen fund his proposals when he was in the budget for 2014? With the National Transport Plan of the Workers' Party, the maturity would increase by road and rail, compared to what the majority of today has now achieved. It is not that we implement exactly what was planned on the crown; it is a much greater commitment to maintenance than the Workers' Party had ever intended. It is worth noting that when the Workers' Party presented its package of measures to combat unemployment, we did not have a crown for maintenance. And now we see that the Workers' Party in its alternative budget, which was presented in Stortinget a month ago, increased the car fee by 3 billion. kr, but a cut in the road bet in its alternative budget. The last working party has planned to do something about it, is to strengthen the road effort, unfortunately. But fortunately, there is another majority in the Storting that is carrying out the bet that the Workers' Party is talking about, but that they have not intended to do themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3313	I record that the Council of State believes that everyone else here lies, while he owns the truth. We are accused of one-sided black paint and creating a wrong picture of the Advance Party's policy in the Ministry of Transport. But it is a fact that the Council of State put the entire intercity planning in jeopardy. He was saved – to use that expression – by the Left and Christian People's Party in the negotiations. That's the right picture. There is no wrong image. The council would like to come up and tell me that I am wrong, if he wants to. Then you talk about the county roads. I record that they themselves have taken money from the county council, from regional development funds that were to go to economic development, which are very much in demand in the counties, and transferred it to roads. At the same time, you invite the counties to just borrow more money. I'm not so sure it's a sensible policy. The Labour Party has a different economic policy towards the counties and municipalities. We are also accused of not sticking to reality. It is interesting when I hear the Progress Party in the debate on transport talk about the realities. I hear that the Progress Party is now boasting that they have reduced the need for tolls. The advance party has provided a toll discount. The Progress Party has provided for a longer amortisation period. The Progress Party has provided for interest compensation. The reality is that the Progress Party, not only in the 2013 election campaign, promised zero tolls – to pass free as long as they are in government. It was a message The Progress Party had been serving for many, many years. Where is the Progress Party now? Yes, they're in government. I just repeat -- taste of the number: 37 billion. kr will the Progress Party, with the Minister of Finance and Transport, to enter during this four-year period. It is a powder-resistant, fantastic good result, but it was not the realities of what they promised before they entered the government. Now the pipe has got another song. We just have to notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3322	The representative Eidsheim tells us that spending time on the snow that fell last year is wasted, and then she uses half her post to tell how miserable it was under the red-green. Talking about what has happened during this government is not necessary, and you can understand that, but it is very important to tell what happened long before that time. This allows the Progress Party – among others. by the representative Johnsen – calm down with their toll discounts as much as they like. In fact, as the representative Lauvås said, what was promised to the voters was that it should be said “free” at all toll stations. To the representatives Johnsen and the place of E6 northwards: I have not requested the project, as the place said, I made it clear that the Progress Party – and Johnsen – has not fulfilled what they promised the voters. He did not promise further expansion to next year, he promised to start in 2014, if I am not completely wrong. But what I can demand is where it's going to be by rv. 3/25, where it is made by E16, Nybakk–Kongswinger, or where it is made by the crossing track on the Kongswingerbahn. It's very important here with the story story, and I would like to make a small contribution in this way in terms of E6. It is good that this matter is now finally coming, and that it will be continuously expanding from here, and so on, but I just remember that when we dealt with the Minnesund-Skaberud section on 16 December 2011, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to re-examine the railway track in the Joint Project E6-Dovreban. And right, with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the team, suggested postponing the entire project to review all the objections and allegations that had been about the matter. Both of these proposals would have exposed the projects by many, many years, but thank God the proposals did not get the majority, thanks to a red-green majority. Finally, the Solvik-Olsen Council of State thinks it is funny to discuss politics, but is disappointed at the assembly that does not fulfill what he wants with regard to it. Then he starts criticizing the Working Party and the Red-Greens, as he always has. My appeal to the Council of State is: if he wants to start discussing politics, we need to be more than willing to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3336	I understand very well that the Council of States is being supported when he gets negative criticism – a government council that has a record of using the term 'after eight years' from this pulpit, and I haven't heard much positive sounds in those words. Traffic means a lot too many. Road, water, track, air and digital – it connects and unites the people who live here, it creates business, jobs and housing. This was realized in the NTP provided by the Stoltenberg government. The working party will have the most left for the money, the shortest way from bank and state to road, broadband, boat and track. The government that is now responsible creates something similar to a Swedish “smutter-ganese” cake: layers on layers, with a lot of strange in between. There we find tolls, bureaucracy and more administration. In 2017, the Workers' Party has invested 1 billion. kr more than the Advance Party in Transport, locally and centrally, and for the period above 2 billion. kr more. The progress party vows we heard about before the elections were $45 billion. kr more per year, and after four years we see the result. They've melted away. The transport promise is being lowered for the tax haven. That's probably the only promise this government has made. Less bureaucracy was a promise. It's not held either. There's more bureaucracy than ever before. Smaller tolls were another promise. It's not held either. There's more toll than ever before. 12 B.C.E. kr to the hospitals was a third promise. It's not held either. The use of oil money was to be kept under control. That promise has not been made either. Oil money use is bigger than ever before. The road construction, then – is it larger than ever? Not on the South, at least. The progress party promises were that four fields from Kristiansand to Sandnes would be finished in ten years. Now, New Wegener says that less than one third of the road is finished in 2015. Tolls on the South would go away. The result is that you have to pay 207 kroner to drive 8 miles. That's the prognosis now. The government plan was another promise that was not fulfilled either. Being toll king in a toll kingdom could probably be nice if it was one who had promised. Being a bureaucrat in a bureaucrat country could probably also be nice if that was what you had promised – not to talk about in a department. I am a little uncertain whether I dreamed that it was in the agreement that the use of red tape was going down, and especially in the Ministry of Transport. It may be I have dreamed, and if I have, the Minister of Transport can confirm it from the Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3351	There are some violent claims that come from different representatives. To put it that way: I sometimes wonder if the representatives of the Workers' Party see the difference between New Vejer and the State Road Service, sees the difference in funding, that one has created a framework and selected a portfolio that has been taken out of the ordinary NTP, and thus secured the progress and the whole of our government parties. A Labour Party representative was on the pulpit and talked about the four-field road between Stavanger and Kristiansand. If you look at the NTP that we are now running after – not the previous NTP, that some Labour Party representatives down in the South love to say, but the one we're running after now – there wasn't even any distance or means to anything between Lgvigal and Ålgård. There was only one two- and three-field road on the same route. Now we have said through Nye Veier that we want to see and build the country as a whole. We want a four-field road between Kristiansand and Stavanger. It's going to be built. It's going to give these two parts of the South and West a lift. It's important to have hairy targets. It's not always a when they arrive within the time limit that you might want. I'm going to be the first to say that, but it's much better to have hairy targets than not to have any goals at all. Had it been like this that we had followed the NTP to the red-greens, there had not been built a four-field road between Lwigal and Ålgård.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3360	It's really the representative of Aasrud that makes me take the floor. She had a little visit to the Left when it came to prices on the Gjøvik Railway. The Gjøvik track is important, and it is important to get an hour route to Gjøvik. It is also in the comparison that you have to work systematically on it. But in terms of prices: is there any party that has worked to bring down the prices of public transport in Norway, it is just the Left. We've done it systematically, both locally and nationally, together with the other parties on the civil side. I can start by mentioning that I myself agreed to lower the monthly card prices by well over 20 pst. in Oslo back in 2008. We put down the collective prizes – by a majority on the civil side. In 2011 it was followed up with a significant decrease in prices in Akershus, and last year we reduced prices by 20 pst. on the monthly card for the NSB, as a follow-up, so that more people will benefit from a better offer, but also receive a lower price. This year, we're going to follow it up by reducing the cost to the NSB by 20 pst, so that they can improve the offer for their travelers. It's a paradox that in Oslo, and also in Akershus, where we started to lower prices in 2008, they only now set up more than what's the price rise, and significantly, it's with a red-green majority. Even if we expect them to improve their economy by paying 20 pst. less to the NSB, we have to be able to expect that the price increase you have set up will be completely reduced or phased out. That must be done in Oslo, and it must be done in cooperation with Akershus. It is really a change of pace with regard to the use of public transport during this period. The reward for the nine largest urban areas is now in excess of 2 billion. kr. I remember myself when I was in Oslo, we didn't get one penny in rewards from the state. Now there is really a cooperation between state and local authorities to achieve the necessary collective action. This is what happens year by year in order to stop operations and to get investments. The big investments, whether fornebubanen or Citybanen in Bergen, where it is also a significantly larger will, build one with at least 50 pst. State funding. The track was paid without government funding. There is a significant change in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3375	As a member of the Business Committee, I have participated in the debate this morning in the Chamber, and it is interesting to note that we spent the whole morning attacking on how many bureaucrats we had hired. When I hear the representative of Gullvåg, I guess we haven't hired enough people yet. It is also a little special to conclude that when the government buys services from private individuals, there is privatisation. I guess that's a little bit incorrect. We are also very often discussing enforcement. In the previous period, it was the rule that we had a government that hit the chest and said that they had overfilled the NTP, but it was in decision-making form, it wasn't at allocations. It was obvious when you looked at the list of delayed projects that there was no target at all. There's no play with numbers or play with the story -- that's simply what statistics tell us, black on white. I have to say that the representative Simensen was glittering when he corrected his party colleague Martin Henriksen regarding the costs of E6 west of Alta for users. There's no toll financing. There was a big discussion in the previous period. There is one thing about user funding: It can be good if you have a model that anchors this with users, which makes it feel like a contribution to building and improving the road. Then it can go home a lot of places. In Finnmark, it was problematic to tell that story. When this government raised and dismantled the bomb, it was not yet certain how much more than 150 million. NOK 150 million would be required. the costs to be paid by users on the road project. To put it that way with former Minister of Transport, Meltveit Kleppa's words from the previous growing-up period: that sum is meaningless. The most important thing is to contribute. There are a lot of people who would like to contribute, but then you might be willing to go to the money for which you are going to spend it. It was a good solution for E6 west of Alta. It has been a good project, and now the Regional Road Manager says: Now you have moved the projects forward and completed the projects, so now you just have to get new decisions and new appropriations, because we have a hole until we want to drill holes in. They were just not quite aware that the opportunity would come as early as it did.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3388	Today, we are dealing with a transport budget that represents the bet of the times in the field of transport. Not only that: we see road maintenance, road development and collective provision being strengthened during this government. In addition, a number of measures are being taken to help build faster and better and more roads. In addition, it is very happy for me who lives in Tromsø, to see how, for example. The reward system has led us to strengthen the collective offer, and we have been speeded up, for example. the construction of the foreign terminal at Tromsø airport. When I hear the representative Martin Henriksen standing here on the pulpit and believe that this government's bet is not good enough, I really wonder what kind of scaffolding he would give his own party for the time they put in government. Increase of 50 pst. Since 2013 is actually a good enough picture in itself, I think. The slowdown and the need have been great after eight lean years. This will not be solved in just three years, but I think we are doing well. In North Norway, we have over doubled the number of billions invested in our part of the country. And in Nordland, Troms and Finnmark, the road is built that never before, and more will come. As many have been to date, the prime minister in Alta was opening one of these road projects in the north, even though not everyone had come up with how they are now being financed. The county roads have also been given a lift. Only since 2013 have we got 1.3 billion. to maintain and build county roads in the northern counties. That's a number that speaks for itself. Ferry relief schemes of 40 years on the county roads contribute to e.g.: to complete the financing of projects such as the Langsund link and the Ullsfjord link. In the case of the latter, design is actually under way because of this. I also record that the representative Martin Henriksen tried to create uncertainty about the E8 in Breivika in Tromsø. There's little reason for that. The Swedish Road Authority has been given a clear signal to initiate the design of the road project, with the commitments it must provide for the country’s share as of 2018. I find it really quite alarming that Martin Henriksen is trying to knock political coins on what should have been an uncertainty that has been overcome, and that arose because there was a lack of consensus at local level before the government budget was presented. It is not particularly constructive for the inhabitants of Tromsø either. The road gets its start in 2017, and I believe that Martin Henriksen should also express satisfaction that the government has cleaned up. The right-hand option NTP was voted down in Stortinget in 2013 – by the red-green ones. But just like that, we're now working too many of the projects. Now it's for example. funds for the E8 regulatory plan to Tromsø in the 2017 budget, and many other projects are under planning and monitoring. The massive focus on urban environmental agreements is also positive, for example: in my hometown, Tromsø. I enjoy the bet in my district and in Troms. In my state, good roads will be very central to growth, development and settlement. I look forward to the treatment of the NTP in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3407	There has been a long debate, many views. I look forward to continuing to implement the efforts of the bourgeois majority through good appropriations, good reforms and proper priorities. Today's debate is a reminder that it is also a little about who is making the transport plans, because they are good or not. We have received massive criticism from a red-green opposition that believes that the current NTP is clearly fragmented with piecewise and divided projects that it is quite horrific to find its way. Well, then I just have to say that we have to make longer distances in the future. It is probably proof that it should not be the Workers' Party that creates NTPs in the future either. There has to be someone who sees the whole thing. We've done a lot of reforms just to try to fix this. New roads are an example of this. All the road projects we have so far submitted have been based on the fact that projects have been expanded in relation to how they were actually planned once in the future. Now they are adopted, so far with lower costs than one previously thought. It shows that it actually makes sense to spend a little bit of money on conversions, because you get a win out. You get more money. That's the same thing we'll notice as the railway reform materializes, that we're going to save money in the way we do maintenance, because you get up to four-year contracts where you have one-year contracts today. You collect things that are scattered today. Although the opposition is trying to give the impression of fragmentation, we know that this is actually a collection of responsibilities, a collection of budgets, a collection of costs, and then you usually get more money back. When we're going to continue working on our transportation effort, we know that there's 60 pst. growth in road and rail maintenance compared with that of the previous government. That's 700 pst. increase in planning funds in 2017 compared to 2013. That's 300 pst. increase in the deployment of tunnel safety compared to 2013. That's $1.50. kr more for county roads than in the national transport plan, 75 pst. extra bet on the bike path compared to the previous government and 180 pst. increase in collective investment compared to the previous government. Where the maintenance seat suspension doubled during the previous government, it is now heading downwards again. Although we from the Progress Party cannot boast that we have removed tolls, as we wanted, simply because we did not get a majority, we still see that the toll on road projects now being built is lower than when we took over. So we've won out in some areas. Although the Workers' Party has not realised that tolls have been removed on more than one project, it has actually been removed in eight. It helps the political debate if you have control of facts, instead of just making claims. But thank you for an exciting debate, if not otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3418	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. It is fascinating how much time some parties spend criticising the fact that policies they have opposed are not followed up, and how much they criticize new solutions without presenting their own. After all, it's been a lot to enjoy Norwegian commerce in the last four years. There has been a strong uplift, and the 2017 budget continues. But just as important as how much money we spend is how we spend that money. This is where this government and the cooperation parties are really behind the scenes, by using new methods of planning and new methods of implementation, both in the road sector and in the rail sector. There is an amazing job in the floors of this work today, and it is well followed up by political leadership. It's great that the representative Sivertsen says that he is using a government plan on questions about what new solutions he himself has. But what projects has he actually proposed to use state level? I can't think of a single one. One thing is to have new ideas and better solutions, but they actually have to be used to get results, and that's what this government is doing. Let me also add that after having heard the representative of Gullvåg, one could get the impression that the Workers' Party has operated with large-scale privatisation for many years in government, when they have commissioned tenders to others other than the State. But I do believe that the representative of Gullvåg is quite alone – also in the Workers' Party – in believing that missions should not be outsourced to anyone other than the state itself. Most parodically, when the size of the tolls is attacked from the opposition, an opposition that itself wants the toll load to be higher than that imposed by the government. Then it won't be much to enjoy. Finally, a little bit about planning intercity, or of railways in general, where 200 million was spent. NOK when we took over. Now we're up to 1 700 million. kr. Nevertheless, there are some who complain that there is not enough railway planned in this country. Never before has so much railway been planned in this country, and a lot is planned because a lot is to be built, and there must be consistency between planning and construction. That's what this government is making sure it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3435	The representative Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3440	I don't know if I'm going to spend more time on E6. I actually think most people have come up with that government doing there, is a historically massive bet. But since the representative Sønsterud may still not have brought it, I just want to repeat what I said instead: what we're doing there is impressive. It's almost better than we expected – it's actually even better than the 1962 Plan of Trygve Bratteli. We don't even stop at Lillehammer; we build all the way up to Hafjell. So there's no need to take any criticism whatsoever. In the case of rv. 3/25, I want to remind you that we're actually following the plan of the red-green ones. Construction start starts in 2017. It was also inside the red-green NTP, but then we've spent the time making sense and positive. We have removed a roundabout and built a flat-free cross, and we have adjusted a little bit on the road so we can get 110 km/h instead of 100. So this is where the drivers get both bag and bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3447	The representative Steinar Gullvåg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3452	When you transfer planning tasks from a public office to private consultants, I perceive that this is a form of privatisation. It is my belief that if plan tasks had been carried out to a greater extent by the acts of commerce in their own right, planning would be significantly cheaper than it is now. I have now participated in nine transport debates, the last one – this one today – with reverse signs compared to the first eight. The Council of State reference framework is the last government. It's natural. Everything that is sad and black is due to the previous government. Everything that is good and good is due to this government. And “this is how it goes”.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3460	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. I just want to repeat that in 2005 the Workers' Party started the journey of time in Norway. We made a plan to resume the maintenance run on the road and on the railway, and a plan to build more and better roads and railways. Every year since 2005, we have been following that initiative, and in the 2017 draft budget we have 1 billion. kr more than the government parties have, to strengthen the commitment to climate-friendly transport in urban areas, to better roads in districts and throughout the country, to railways, to coasts and to broadband development in districts. When I hear that State Council Solvik-Olsen and representatives from the Right and the Progress Party of this Chair talk about the snow falling last year, and are more concerned about commenting on the Labour Party's budget in 2014, I wonder whether the Council of State has either not read the Workers' Party's alternative budget, or has not realised that it is a budget for 2017. So, in the working party's 2017 alternative budget, we are proposing 1 billion. kr more for reward schemes and urban environmental agreements. We're proposing 900 million. kr more for railway and 106 mill. kr more for broadband expansion. We have 100 million. kr for road safety, ferry replacement programme, more to the Coastal Works, race protection of county and national roads, 25 million. kr more than the government for tunnel safety and start-up of several new road projects, compared to the government. There is no doubt that the Workers' Party is making tough priorities. We do these priorities because we don't prioritize tax cuts for those who have the most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3471	At the end of my main post, I gave the opposition – with the Workers' Party in particular – a small challenge. It was that I hoped that this debate could focus on politics and solutions, and on what the Workers' Party really wants – not just empty rhetoric. In five hours I haven't heard a single word – not a single explanation – about what the Workers' Party really wants. I said in my speech that they have voted against road reform and rail reform – voted against everything that is new. I haven't yet heard a single word from a single representative about what you want to do differently. It's done well in such a long time. I have heard the Workers' Party repeatedly here today and tonight say that you are not able to follow up the NTP, as they put it. No, thank God. If we had followed it up when it came to highways, we had to almost reduce the allocation by half. If you were to follow-up on the maintenance of the track, you had to reduce it greatly. If we were to follow up the NTP from the previous government on planning, we would have to thank only this budget – 1 700 million. kr. If we were to follow up on highways in general, we would have to cut. And if we had followed up Sverre Myrli's recommendation to buy more trains – and follow the NTP – we would have to cancel about half of the train sets this government has ordered. I think the country is glad we're not following that NTP. We're overfilling it, that's absolutely right. Nor have I heard so much talk about the Progress Party in this Chamber – now I will also talk about the Advance Party. There has been a lot of talk about eagerness and touching interest in tolls. It is strange that so many Workers' Party representatives, almost half of the workforce of the Workers' Party, are calling for toll cuts. I haven't seen in their alternative budget that you cut something in tolls. I haven't seen it. I have not heard that you should vote in favour, but you are cordially welcome to vote for tonight. I'm going to give a little honeymoon to the Center Party, which actually takes the step fully, which has been inspired by the Progress Party, and which has put in money for toll cuts. But I have heard – between the lines – that the Workers' Party cannot afford toll cuts. The Progress Party thinks about all the residents and the drivers, that's who we're busy with, while the Workers' Party is obviously occupied with the rich, and you think it's okay that most people have to pay a little bit more. The Progress Party is very pleased that we have actually reduced the use of tolls, and I hope that the Workers' Party has brought it with us, especially the transport politicians. In 2014, the share of road toll financing in Norway was about 40 pst. In 2017, it will be a little bit lower than 30 pst. We reduce the amount of tolls all the way and give more money for transportation, precisely because we mean what we say. We're measuring what we're doing, not just what we've said.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3486	It must be clear that the representative Stordalen has problems with hearing, since he is going to the pulpit – right after the representative tongue – and is wondering what the Labour Party will do differently. But to be on the safe side, I'm going to send a copy of the first post that I made today, so he can read to himself what the Workers' Party actually wants. To the representative of Astrup, since the representative has obviously forgotten what is in the current NTP, it describes which projects we want to use state-wide, and it is the specific priority projects, which are an alternative way of solving the problems, in relation to what the government has chosen. Then there are many of the government parties' representatives who are heavy on the chest that we actually point out that everything is not perfect in this country. But falling into cheap rhetorical grips, like characterizing it as very sad, and that it's black paint, is a debate that belongs in other arenas than in the Storting. We have pointed out that the Progress Party has broken its promise not to charge tolls. The lot must answer to its voters. We just remember it, and it's been hard on your chest. The fact is that the CO 2 emissions from road traffic are increasing. The Council of State stands here on the Spokesman's Chair and claims to be the one who manages one whole and full truth. Well, time and again in this debate, his allegations and alleged facts are rejected by several representatives – and I can raise a few more. In my post, I showed how the Council of State has creatively booked to show that you have fulfilled the NTP. In fact, more money is spent on fewer projects over a longer period of time than the Stortinget provided. Eleven road projects, four fairway projects and six coastal port projects are not being launched. In the country with the second longest coastline in the world, only 86 psts are used. of what is the framework. In addition, more projects are pushed out in time. This government is very busy talking about what happened during the eight red-green years, but there's some mental strain about what happened before that. It was shown that the submarine U-864 was known in 1999 – yes, but there were some other people who had government authority from 1999 to 2005. The Council of State was standing here on the pulpit a few weeks ago talking about the U-864, and it was told that this government was trading. A few days later, the message came: no, we're not going to spend $35 million. However, on this submarine for next year, we can dispose of this for other purposes. So what you do with U-864 is you leave it there. If that's action, I'm not convinced that this government will continue to rule the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3502	The representative, Kjell-Idar Juvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3507	First, the government doesn't overcomply with the NTP. That's said several times. Fewer projects are implemented, it takes longer, and there are projects that you do not finish or cut. There's no doubt about it. They're also framed in the budget paper, so if you haven't managed to get it out of the pulpit, you can go in there and read it. But I wanted to draw attention to one of the proposals to the Workers' Party, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox There, Stortinget had the opportunity to rectify a major neglect – that it would no longer be possible to send the new timetables to Ontøe, which has won the grid in Nord-Trøndelag and Nord-Norway, to be consulted. They were sent out for consultation to regions and municipalities, so that they could be recorded before they were finally decided. This has the government, of which Solvik-Olsen is part, removed with a pen stroke. Now they have the opportunity to fix it. Unhøe doesn't mind getting a charge like that, but what does the bulk of the population do? It's not too late, it's going to be over it a little bit later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3514	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute, then the Council of State Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3519	I made a brave attempt to get the last words in the debate, but it did not work! First, yes, we overfill the National Transport Plan, we overfill it by 10 billion. kr. It is on the same scale as the Workers’ Party itself uses the concept of ‘overfilling’ by the national transport plan. If there's another definition of it, at least we're overfulfilling more than the previous government did – then 22 projects were delayed and not started up in time, as intended. Another point, which really made me take the floor: it was the representative tongue who showed that they had been working to reduce the maintenance run since 2005. That's not right. The first time the Workers' Party and the previous government started to reduce the maintenance seat run was in 2013, when this national transport plan was created. Now we're going to do it. The budget for 2013, as submitted by the government of Stoltenberg, was not sufficient to reduce the maintenance set-off.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3528	It's in the breakup between different ideas, different views and different ways of approaching challenges on good ideas, good solutions are realized and we can solve some of our common challenges. The government, through its policy and its work with a majority in the United Kingdom, has ensured that many reforms are now being implemented to better address the challenges, provide more money. Then the Progress Party, which I represent, does not get a majority for all solutions, such as: tolls. We have presented a toll reform that was supported on a number of points – we implement them – but was not supported on other points. I thought the Workers' Party was aware that it is the majority who decide. The progress party I can promise will go to elections again on that we will reduce and cut tolls. On the other hand, I think it is a little sad when the Labour Party uses the opportunity today to accept that the Advance Party does not get a majority. What they're doing is admitting that the inhabitants of this country have to pay more for their roads than they really need. That the Workers' Party thinks it's something to be proud of, I think is sad. But I'm actually a little more surprised when the representative Juvik gives the impression that there are no proposals to cut tolls – because then the Workers' Party would support it. It is true that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left together have ensured that there are more toll projects presented to the government that have had lower tolls than the Workers' Party had planned. But in this room, in this state budget, there is also a proposal to grant money to cut tolls in existing toll projects, in projects presented under the previous government with a higher toll percentage than what the current government believes is right. Then the Labour Party does not take the opportunity to support that proposal. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party is calling for the toll cuts. There's going to be a bit of a weird political debate where someone is asking for action, but even is voting against that action. And that's the same thing we see in many of the other road projects we've discussed, where the Workers' Party says, "Oh, we made a mistake when we showed up today's NTP, we cut in the road projects." But when the government presents the reform to remedy it, the Labour Party is voting against that reform. They won't connect the road projects anyway. The Labour Party thought it would create a ‘roadbonanza’ to quote their former traffic policy spokesperson in a class struggle interview. In the case of Onions, they travel on a recording round now. It's not a formal consultation by us, but it's exactly the same thing they're trying to solve -- hear the recordings. The feedback I get is that Onkøe says that there will be changes here, but the Workers' Party gives the impression that nothing is happening. It's sad. The maturity was referred to by the representative of the place. It is simply a mistake that the Workers' Party reduced their maturity as they managed. Last but not least, we have talked a lot about physical infrastructure, and the digital infrastructure is important. I think we should recognise when a large market with private operators invests $8.6 billion. kr in broadband. It's more important than discussing 10 million to 20 million. kr from or to public budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3545	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3550	The Council of State would like to stand on this pulpit as long as he just wants to talk away from the promises of the Progress Party in terms of tolls. The Labour Party has not made a choice to remove the tolls, as the Progress Party has done. Then I just have to say, even if I come from Hedmark, that U-864 is on the seabed outside of Fedje, is almost unbelievable. I sat in the transport committee the previous time, and the husband of Rabalder from the Advance Party and the Right that that boat was not lifted, one should look for a long time. That it is still lying there – yes, I say it again – is almost unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3557	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3566	After it had been called to vote, said Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Before we go to case no. 1 and the examination of proposals, I give the floor to Kjell Ingolf Ropstad for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3575	I just want to take the opportunity to say that I recommend the Christian People's Party to support proposal No. 17 in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox We consider it a proposal, and when the government comes back with it to the Storting, we will of course decide on different ways to set it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3583	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-10, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11 and 12, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 13, from Else-May Botten on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 14, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 15 and 16, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 17, by Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 18, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Center Party
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3613	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a mapping of labour needs and a strategy to increase the skills of workers and the education system to the level needed in the digital society.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals and arrangements on an investment fund for North Norway.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3637	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider giving fishermen throughout Finnmark equal rights to participate in commercial fishing for king crabs from 2017 under detailed conditions.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3654	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to explore the possibilities of moving Norwegian Rome Centre to Andøya, possibly elsewhere in North Norway.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3671	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to implement a fund scheme for investments in agricultural climate action.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3688	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to explore the possibilities for mineral exploration at sea.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks a national industrial cooperation company linked to Norwegian biobanks and health registers.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3713	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to examine the possibility of requiring Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian coast.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3728	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 5-10, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive review of the industrial policy instrument, focusing on ensuring seamless instruments throughout the innovation chain.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether there is room for strengthening and extending the net pay scheme in the framework of measures for seafarers’ employment.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make use of standard contracts in connection with the processing of plans for the development and operation of petroleum expansions.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to explore the possibility of a State loan guarantee scheme for the mainland industry on a GIEC model’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to decide whether new export aid schemes can be established for small and medium-sized enterprises under the auspices of Export Credit and GIEK.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government requests the maintenance of Investinor’s equity and does not close the mandate for initial investment.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of the return requirements of Investinor in order to ensure that they do not hinder reasonable and socially profitable investments.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain the support to non-governmental organisations above the Ministry of Agriculture’s budget and to continue the scheme as basic aid.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3783	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote the Stortinget’s proposal for a new scheme in GIEK that covers both political and commercial risks related to renewable investment in developing countries, so that it can be addressed in spring 2017.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e3800	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the government to reconsider the new reporting requirements in accordance with the landing regulations.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e7958	It's over A, I. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e7972	It shall be counted against A, II to XII and XIV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e7982	There is a vote on A, XIII, paragraph 1. 5th@item: inlistbox The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e7996	There is a vote on A, XIII, paragraph 1. 4th@item: inlistbox The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8011	It is added over A, other parts of XIII. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8025	It's over B, I. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8039	It's over B, II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8049	It's over C, I. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8063	It shall be counted against C, II to IV and D.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8073	It's over C, V. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it. [[(from the hall):]] President! - Yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8085	Is that so? - Okay. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8103	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left the proposals No 4-8, by Eirik Sivertsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 11, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the extension of the urban environmental agreements scheme, which negotiates support for environmentally friendly transport activities and for all growth in passenger traffic to be taken together, bicycles and corridors to several cities.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8135	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the continuous development of E6 throughout the Ringebu-Otta route in Uppland.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8150	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to ensure that 20 pst. Discounts on monthly and annual cards shall also apply to travellers on the Gjøvik Railway.’» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8167	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the construction of the Turtnes-Øye route on E16 in Vang i Valdres along with the Øye-Eidsbru route.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8182	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 6-8, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to continue working on and find a solution for E6 Helgeland Nord in cooperation with local authorities before finalising the scope of development and the cost framework. This is done in time for necessary renegotiations with the contractor.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget on how to design a ferry replacement program. The aid scheme must be time-limited and targeted at county municipalities that phase out older fossil-powered ferries and switch to river ferries.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the necessary means to enable the works for electrification of the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen to begin in 2017’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The size will ask the government to consider measures to increase depth to 20 metres in the Florø Harbour seal, which is what is required for the yard industry to have competitiveness here.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8217	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to make progress in the plan for a new bridge over Glomma on Rv. 22 in Fet in Akershus in line with the intentions of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023.’ [[New Cross-Glom]] The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e8234	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government is asked to continue its previous practice of sending new timetables on tendering routes to consultation before they are finalised.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the unexplored use of flexible user charges that vary with geographical location, emission intensity of the fuel and time of day’.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10655	It's votting over field 17 with I. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10669	It shall be counted over II to V, IX and XI to XIV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10679	It's going to add up to VI. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10693	It shall be added over VII. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10708	That's right over VIII. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10722	It's going to be over X. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10736	It is voted over XV, XVI, XIX, XX and XXI. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10750	It is votted over XVIII. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10764	It's voted over XVII. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-13.ana.ud224e10788	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
