ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e90	Honourable co-representatives! On 5 June 2016, former Depositary Representative Geirmund Ihle died from Haugesund, 81 years old. He represented the Workers' Party and Rogaland for three periods, from 1969 to 1981. In the first two periods he was a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee. From 1977 to 1981 he was a member of the Defence Committee and was also a member of the Enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee of the United Kingdom. The story of Geirmund Ihle is in many ways the story of Norway in his lifetime. He was born in the middle of the hard 30s and experienced the war as a little boy. In 1951, 16 years old, he went to sea, like so many other young men back then. The years as a seafarer were interrupted by periods of cooking and sturming training, and the last three years before he patterned in 1962, he worked as a student at one of the ships of the Haugesund Company Knut Knutsen OAS. In the 1960s, at a time when Norway was becoming a society of opportunity for all, Ihle made use of his large resources in many fields at the same time: teaching at the Haugesund Sturgeon School, working in Rogaland's newspaper, a member of the city board and chairmanship, and thus – in 1969 – elected to the Norwegian National Assembly, where he sat throughout the 1970s. Both politically and economically, the 1970s were a difficult time, and the shipbuilding industry in the West was a bad one. Both as a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee, with a seafarer’s background and a good network in the maritime environment, Mr Geirmund Ihle made a vigorous effort. He contributed greatly to helping the industry through the crisis with decisions channelling government-funded construction tasks westwards. At the beginning of the 1980s, when there were great tensions about security policy inside the Workers' Party, Ihle was on the Defence Committee. He was safely located in the moderate and NATO-friendly majority of the party. Ihle had always had close contact with the war generation, a strong commitment to defence policy, and led the Ihle Committee from 1981 to 1984, which evaluated the economic and social status of Norwegian war participants. In the 1980s, 1990s and early 2000s, Ihle had a wide range of public functions, corporate governance and organisations. He also wrote several local historical books, including biographies about the local artists Fredrik Kolstø and Ole Frövig. Until the last few years, Geirmund Ihle was active, committed and social. It was a local size in Haugesund that passed away on June 5, this year. His good friend Kristian Magnus Vikse, former editor of the Haugesunds Avis, writes in his memory that Ihle was “the talented and purposeful sea boy who became one of Haugesund’s greatest ‘knownisers’. We light peace over Geirmund Ihle's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e115	They called for alternates, for More and Romesdal County of Tove-Lise Torve, and for South-Trondelag County of Ferhat Güven, now take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e126	The representative of Kåre Simensen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e131	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Kirsti Bergstø, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to renegotiate or terminate the salmon agreement with Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e136	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e142	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Jenny Klinge, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself, present a proposal for a public investigation of forced use in Norwegian psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e147	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e165	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e174	Today we will deal with the Annual Communications to the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority for 2015. The Committee has stressed in its work that privacy concerns the right to privacy, the right to decide on personal data. This is the right to privacy. All people have an inviolable self-value. Individuals have the right to a private sphere which is controlled by themselves and where individuals can act freely without coercion or interference from the state or from other people. This principle is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 8, which states that ‘every person has the right to respect for his or her private and family life, home and correspondence’. In its examination, the Committee recalled that on 13 May 2014, Stortinget decided to strengthen the protection of privacy by including the provision on privacy in the Constitution. As far as data protection is concerned, the Committee has demonstrated that supervision should help to prevent the individual from being harmed by the use of information which may be linked to him or her. The Data Protection Authority was established on 1 January 1980 and is an independent administrative body under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The establishment is both supervision and representation in privacy matters. The Annual Reports of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer provide a good overview of the activities that were in 2015 and of the priorities and issues that have shaped the work. In addition to the statutory tasks such as concessions, supervision and supervision, the Data Protection Authority shall carry out extensive information and guidance activities. In our treatment, we see that, in addition, the Data Protection Authority has chosen to work more in-depth on some issues that confront society with some specific challenges and go beyond the reporting period. The communication mentions privacy challenges in the health sector, in school and education, in the justice sector and in the digitisation of the public sector. It is positive that these areas are being worked on in the long term. In 2015, there was an active discussion on privacy issues both in Norway and internationally. Norway has actively participated in EU discussions on the development of new data protection legislation. Cooperation on privacy between European countries is becoming increasingly important, both because we are stronger in common law and legislation, and because European Data Protection Supervisors are more effective when exchanging experience and coordinating their work. We are pleased that, in 2015, in addition to its regular information tasks, concessional treatment, supervision and controls, the Data Protection Authority has gone deep on some selected topics that are particularly important privacy areas. Last year, the Data Protection Authority prioritised, among others: enhancing the competence of kindergartens and schools to ensure the processing of personal data and addressing privacy challenges in the digitisation of the public sector and in the management of personal data in the health and care sectors. In our work, the Committee wanted to highlight in particular the important work being done to increase knowledge of privacy in kindergartens and schools. This is about ensuring good procedures for the processing of personal data, but also about increasing knowledge of networks and privacy among children and young people spending a lot of time on social media. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the Data Protection Authority has also produced a report on how the use and marketing of personal data by commercial companies challenges privacy, inter alia. by the fact that users of different services are not always aware of what information is used for, or the extent to which it can be reserved for their personal data, and that it is shared with others. Here, it is important to contribute to a greater awareness of those issues in very many areas of society. We have also noticed that the government has followed up this and given the necessary privacy questions a broad review in the Report. St. 27 for 2015–2016, The Digital Agenda for Norway – ICT for a simpler everyday life and increased productivity, presented by the government in April 2016. It is very good to say about the annual reports for the year that went on, for the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer. I also expect that the minority proposal that has been put forward in the matter will be presented by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e195	I thank the President-in-Office for a good and tidy proposal. Data protection and data protection are key actors in our society. Protection of personal life and personal data is increasingly being challenged in a digitalised society. Not only does it relate to all information collected in public registers and health records, but also to what can be experienced as a pressure on the individual to enter into agreements on the use of personal data on different social media and other websites dealing with, for example: purchase and sale services. Many of the contracts concluded for the use of these social media, purchase and sales services, etc., are perceived as partly complex and difficult to access, as well as linguistically, and may also appear to be unclear as to what individual users actually allow service providers to do in terms of the use of personal data — for what purpose, for how long and whether one can actually be sure that one is erased when requested. The need for citizens to feel secure and to ensure that personal data collected is not misused or compromised is essential if we are to have a digitalised society with individual security. In particular, the Data Protection Authority points out that the digitisation of the public sector is organised in such a way as to provide a good flow of information between businesses, that it is essential to ensure good data protection through such exchange of information, and that the security of privacy is fully present even when public and private actors exchange information on the individual through these digital registers. It is also essential for the individual to receive good information about which bodies exchange and process the information, and what its purpose is, so that each of us can be able to follow, secure and safeguard our own privacy. There are now major changes in the health and care sector, with more and more personal data being digitised, changing into the digital sector as part of improving efficiency and simplification in the public sector. Of course, we're not against that, it's just important to remember that privacy has to be a long way to go when you're doing this. It is, as I said, a development that is necessary and correct and can help you get faster help, answers and clarification from health care. However, it is a clear challenge that there are many actors and different organisations in this, which can make responsibilities unclear, and then it is important that we ensure that we have good national control and control over these registers. I would also like to point out the importance of the ability of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer to carry out the necessary supervision and controls and follow-up of the complaints that come in. This is mentioned in the message. Then I take up the proposal that lies here from the Workers' Party, that the Stortinget ask the government to come back with a statement on how Norway can further secure citizens and businesses, so that sensitive information can be tapped from computer systems and now also phones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e212	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e217	Last week's news coverage of hacker attacks on the Environmental Party's websites The Greens and SV gives perspective to today's debate. Both the Green Party and SV have reported the hacker attacks to the Data Protection Authority, but they were fined because they have not done enough to secure their members from data breach. The fine would have increased if they had not reported the facts themselves, says the Data Protection Authority. I'm afraid very many organizations could have come in the same situation as these two parties. The issues highlight the major challenges we face in ensuring privacy. 2015 is the ‘year when privacy became an international policy’, says the Director of the Data Protection Authority, Bjørn Erik Thon, in the foreword of the Annual Report. He refers to the revelations of Edward Snowden and to the conclusion of the Court of Justice of the European Union that the revelations showed that the United States is not a safe country when it comes to processing data on European citizens. This has led to the replacement of the data transfer agreements between the EU and the United States by new agreements, but the Director of the Data Protection Authority says that there are significant questions about whether these are good enough. This has been addressed by the Left in the Committee Settings. The position of privacy is challenged by technological development and the digital everyday life, of which we are all part. The majority decided in 2014 to strengthen the protection of privacy by including the provision on privacy in the Constitution. The Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority have important roles in ensuring that data protection is implemented in practice in the Norwegian community. I notice that the Data Protection Authority points out that some public enterprises do not comply adequately with data protection law. Reference is made to the fact that the supervision has revealed major deficiencies in both the information security and internal control systems in the Norwegian municipalities, and that the Data Protection Authority has entered into cooperation with the KS to strengthen knowledge and competence on the work on information security in the municipalities. That's good. In addition, the Data Protection Authority states that they have identified shortcomings in the procedures for ensuring the privacy of children in kindergartens and schools and also points to major health challenges. Data supervision indicates that there are challenges related to public sector digitisation. Digitisation shall make service production more efficient and better, but creates challenges when the solutions used do not have integrated privacy systems. In this context, reference is made to the Data Protection Ombudsman Scheme. This is a voluntary scheme in which more than one establishment should participate. I notice that the department supports this. The fight for the Data Storage Directive was a major debate in Norway. We received outside help to prevent the serious interference in privacy that the introduction of the EU Data Directive would represent. The Directive was first adopted in Norwegian law, but the European Court of Justice found that much of it was contrary to EU law. The centre batch will stress that, after the data storage Directive is known to be invalid, it is important to carefully consider the proposals made to replace the Directive. The new draft EU General Data Protection Regulation and Directive on the processing of personal data would require major changes to Norwegian law, according to the notification. If changes are assumed to weaken our data protection provisions or the changes conflict with Norwegian legal opinion, we must also make provision for Norway to accept the inclusion of new provisions in our legislation in this round. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the Central Party will support the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e238	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer on a good effort for data protection and security in Norway. This left has been busy for a very long time. 2015 and 2016 are in the privacy sign. The Safe Harbour decision has also taken a major role in the Norwegian personal protection debate. I very much appreciate the fact that the Data Protection Authority has used 2015 to strengthen privacy, especially in the health sector and at school – important arenas with sensitive information, which need to be rehabilised. The Safe Harbour Agreement has been replaced by the Privacy Shield, a new agreement for the transfer of data from Europe to the United States, and implications for that privacy agreement have not yet been written in stone. Norway is served by an agreement that allows data transmission in a way that, at the same time, complies with Norwegian data protection standards. The agreement is also important for transatlantic trade and as such for Norwegian jobs. At the same time, we need to recognise that the agreement came into effect at short notice as a result of urgent negotiations between the EU and the United States. Therefore, the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Unit are invited to follow developments around the new agreement with Argus eyes. Then I will make a few brief considerations relating to the Workers' Party's comments and suggestions. In an incursion, we have fallen out of that note. We will also support the Labour Party's proposals in this matter. We believe that it is very important to follow up now. Especially in health, we need to look at the data that does not come ‘on the float’. We are looking forward to presenting a matter on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e249	That incurrency also applies to SV, which should also be confined to comments and suggestions from the Workers' Party, as well as to the comments from the Centre Party and the Left. The case rapporteur explained very well to the case itself, but what was mentioned by the representative from the Workers' Party was some of the problems that individuals experience when using different types of data services today, where they are asked to respond side by side with demands and conditions and conditions. I think most of us click on «approved» without reading all the 36 pages in English. One of the problems now is that we give away personal data to tools we use for daily purposes, but which are nevertheless guided by commercial interests that can use it for something quite different from what you had in mind, and that the information about us is sweeping the world without us fully knowing what they can be used for. This is a big dilemma and can be a challenge. Data security and privacy are competence issues. It's very demanding for the individual. We have to take responsibility for it, but it is a very great authority responsibility that we have legislation where privacy is strong, precisely because there are many commercial actors who have completely different interests in using these data. There are also criminals, usually, who can misuse data — our personal data, but also other data. Therefore, SV believes that we need to have a national strategy for critical societal functions, vital infrastructure in ICT that contains some of the most sensitive personal data we have, for example. in health services and other public activities. This is necessary because, to put it that way, they are constantly asked to ‘outsource’ their needs in the field of ICT to private commercial interests, whether they are in Norway or abroad. This means that we are not the seafarer who owns the competence to exercise the necessary powers of control. I think we need to start discussing this more seriously than what we've done now. We as the public sector must ensure that the necessary competences are present in the organisations that are to take care of this as well, and that you do not always depend on someone from outside who can contribute to this competence. It is important to limit the flagging of functions and data. It is about the fact that certain services and necessary competences must always be located in Norway – not only the ICT systems but also the operational staff – precisely because they must be subject to Norwegian supervision and Norwegian legislation. In fact, it is absolutely necessary if we are to ensure that this is in line with the high standard that we want and that we see is absolutely necessary to safeguard privacy. The representative from the Left was up and talking about the international agreements that are now under development. It is clear that this is, by its very nature, international networks. The Web is "world wide", as it is called. This makes it so important that these agreements both ensure the systems when they cross borders and allow a high level of personal and data security in each country, so that it is possible for the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer to take care of the concerns that Norwegian authorities believe privacy should be addressed. There are high standards of privacy. It is absolutely necessary to be a state governed by law, that privacy is at least as high as it is in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e264	We live in a time of tearing technological development. This development gives us the opportunity to solve many challenges. Digitalisation is an important tool for creating a simpler everyday life for most people, important for developing smart and environmentally friendly cities and important for securing and creating jobs. At the same time, data protection is challenged in new ways. Our privacy is being put under pressure. The Annual Communications to the Data Protection Authority and the Subject clearly show this. I am pleased with the great commitment in Stortinget, and not least in the Committee, which shows that this is a challenge that is taken most seriously, and that there is a broad consensus both to secure privacy and that we have good information security around the computer systems. Privacy is increasingly challenged by the commercial sector. Personal data is a rapidly growing commodity and means of payment. Commercial actors are gathering more and more information about us. It is a challenge for consumers to be given incomprehensible and incomplete information on what information is being obtained about them and how that information is used. The government is actively strengthening the privacy of consumers using digital services. The aim is that individuals should be able to refuse the sharing of personal data and yet have access to services. We cooperate with the consumer authorities in this area. It is also important that industry contributes to the development of good solutions. Commercial use of personal data is also mentioned in the Digital Agenda Storing Communication, which will be addressed later today. The notification makes it clear that technology and privacy need not be contradictory. If we build privacy-friendly solutions into technology from the start, they can play on layers. Integrated privacy is an objective in all sectors and leading in the ongoing efforts to renew, simplify and improve the public sector. I am concerned that children and young people are being guaranteed good privacy. Children and young people are major consumers of new technologies and new forms of communication. It may be beneficial for learning and development, but it also makes young people more vulnerable to privacy violations. It is therefore important that the expertise in privacy is optimal, both for young people themselves and for those responsible for young people. Over a three-year period, the Data Protection Authority has examined the processing of personal data on children and young people in the training sector. The supervision has revealed that the procedures in kindergartens and schools to ensure the privacy of young people are inadequate. I see that there is a need for a knowledge-based commitment to privacy in the training sector. I am therefore in favour of continuing the work of the Data Protection Authority to raise awareness of privacy in kindergartens and schools. In recent years, the development and modernisation of data protection legislation in many international forums has been under way. Norway is actively participating in this work. In particular, the revision of EU data protection legislation is important. Following several years of negotiations, the EU adopted a general regulation on the processing of personal data in April this year. This replaces the current Data Protection Directive and is applicable in the EU from 25 May 2018. This Regulation significantly implies the continuation of existing Norwegian legislation and practices. This means that we can maintain strong privacy in Norway even in the coming years. It's important for the government, and I'm glad the Stortinge also emphasizes it. It shall contribute to a more harmonised EU/EEA data protection legislation. It may prevent the unintended and unequal implementation of the standards of protection and thus strengthen Norwegian citizens’ rights in response to foreign actors. For business it will be easier to operate internationally, because actors will only have one common European regulatory framework to deal with. The Government is making significant efforts to adapt Norwegian data protection legislation to the new European rules. We must ensure a regulatory framework that creates confidence in the protection of privacy of citizens. Data protection is an important player in this work. The Data Protection Authority is doing a good and important job. It is absolutely necessary that supervision is well equipped for the extensive work to be carried out on the implementation of new data protection legislation. I have therefore contributed to strengthening the Data Protection Authority's budget for 2016, and we have proposed a high-level continuation in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e299	I thank you for the articles of the Council of State. It was sometimes very good. I am also pleased that there is an involvement in the Storting and in the Committee to secure privacy. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that you feel that privacy is under a very strong pressure, and we must be aware of that. It is also important that we have a knowledge promise, which the Council of State had in mind, including among children and young people, but this applies to all groups of the population, who need a lot of knowledge about it to take care of their privacy. Then I'm probably more pleased with the support of the proposal than the Council of State might be. But on page 3 of the setting, it says: ‘The Data Protection Authority found in the reporting year that there was an ongoing problem that many public enterprises do not have satisfactory procedures to fulfil the obligations of the Data Protection Act.’ What is the Council of State's view that the public is given the indication that these obligations are not being fulfilled, and what immediate measures does the Council of State see that it is possible to implement so that this can be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e314	First of all, it underlines the importance of the job done by the Data Protection Authority. We depend entirely on the high level of data protection and information security attention being paid by the Data Protection Authority. Information security is also being worked on from diffi and other supervision. Then it is quite obvious that when this type of defect is pointed out, it is also a responsibility for the individual department to ensure that it is properly followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e321	The Communication refers to the Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission agreeing in April 2016 on the proposal for a new general data protection regulation and draft directive on the processing of personal data in the justice sector. The Ministry says that Norway will have to implement both the Regulation and the Directive as a result of the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement. It also states that major changes will have to be made to Norwegian law and that it needs to be clarified within a two-year period of implementation. My question is, how far has this work come from Norway? And can the Council of State ensure that independent assessments will be made by the government as to whether the new provisions are in line with Norwegian privacy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e328	I can assure the representative that the work is well under way, and that the Data Protection Authority and the Norwegian authorities have been active and active in the design of the legislation within the EU/EEA area. And I can assure you that Norway will of course make independent assessments. Having said that, I believe that it is in Norway's interest, the interests of its citizens and the interests of the business community that we have equal rules in the EU/EEA area. As citizens, we do a lot on a personal level with companies in Europe. The industry is active. So we have a common interest in having a unified regulatory framework in the EU/EEA area, and it is our opinion that the legislation that is now on the table means that we can continue strong privacy in Norway and that it provides a good room for action on the high standard that we are going to have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e335	Finally, it might also be interesting to hear whether the new legislation will allow for enhanced privacy in the future. One of the problems with agreements is that it can in a way freeze a situation, but not provide enough room for further action, if necessary. So if the council could say a little bit about it, it would be nice. But what I was really going to ask about, is what the State Council said in its statement, that there is a need for a knowledge gap in order to improve data security privacy, for example. in kindergartens and schools. I don't disagree. But the question is whether it is enough for the Data Protection Authority to increase its training, because these are very complicated things. So the question is, do you need your own professional skills in this area in the municipalities, so that you can manage to get up to the necessary level, because all employees do not necessarily have that kind of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e342	I think we share the analysis, namely that this is an area where there is a need for increased effort in the years to come, and it is actually going on a number of levels. One is that both kindergarten and school treat a large amount of personal data, and that it is absolutely necessary that there are good procedures for dealing with them at school and kindergartens and in each school. The second thing, which I think is at least equally important, is that children and young people are getting more attention about all the tracks that are left behind using different digital tools. I myself have attended an hour that the Swedish Data Protection Agency had in a school class, and I was surprised at how many tracks we leave when we're inside on different sides. This means that there is a need for increased attention in schools, among school staff, and there is a need for increased awareness among both school authorities and school owners and in each class.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e349	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e363	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e372	First, I would like to include the suggestions in the setting where SV is a co-sponsor. Then I would like to thank this representative proposal for coming in, because it is absolutely necessary that we now look at Norwegian housing policy. Having a home is not too much required, and the market does not solve that problem for very many. In the last ten years, housing prices have doubled, some places in the country even more than that. At the same time, we see that those who are the lowest paid have almost not had a wage increase in recent years. The community needs a lot of the professions where there is not a very high wage, and a home you have to have. Social housing policy has been weakened in recent years. Less people get housing support. The government's response to this has been cutback in the Husbank framework, no to look at changes in the tax system, where subsidies are currently going to those with high housing wealth, can afford to borrow and can borrow for rentals, while there are too few subsidies and no tax subsidies for those without housing. In addition, different cuts in quality requirements in terms of availability, noise, etc., and also cuts in subsidies for lifts reduce the quality requirements for Norwegian dwellings. For those who have a lot of money and good loan options, it is now very profitable to buy dwellings and rent them out, possibly to sell them later. At the other end, we find people who are homeless. That number's been pretty tight for years, so it's not fixed. And there are a lot of people who don't get loans, even if they're at work, even though they can serve the loans they would need to get a dwelling, because they lack equity. That means they're stuck in a rental market where they pay the same amount, they don't have the opportunity to save and get stuck in a permanent rental relationship. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen social housing policy. It needs to convert taxes, and there are a number of other instruments that need to be put in place, of which many are addressed by this representative proposal. During the hearing, there was massive support for almost all the proposals that were promoted. There is greater responsibility for the state and the municipality, both in terms of instruments and, in particular, in terms of planning the necessary housing. A proposal to this effect, for example: shall be housing plans in all municipalities, are necessary. There is support for the House Bank to have an increased loan framework, more in grants both for construction and for the establishment of housing and more and better rental-to-owner schemes. There are also proposals for a different interest rate policy in the House Bank. There was also a proposal here to make it less profitable to invest in commercial buildings than in rental buildings. It is true in Norway today that if you have money and invest in a commercial building, you get a lower tax regime than if you invest in necessary rental homes. Some of the commercial, serious actors should be strengthened, because we need more of them. Plans must be made to ensure that there are enough dwellings in which people can afford to live. I do not have time to review all the proposals, but there is one proposal for a decision in the setting that I hope it could be supported. It's the Roman number proposal for a lift. It's a little funny that the majority – among other things. government parties – who have cut off the lift subsidy and have made proposals for changes to TEK17 that will make fewer of the new dwellings available, want municipalities to analyse the need for housing and ‘consider the need for subsidies for adaptation and grants for lifts’. I interpret this so that they regret what they have done, and therefore hope that we can fix it at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e391	The representative, Karin Andersen, has addressed the proposals to which SV is co-sponsored and to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e396	Thanks to the case-rapporteur, Karin Andersen, for a good report, but also for having resolved the matter in the committee. Let me start by saying that our starting point is that Norwegian housing policy has been essentially very successful. The vast majority of people in our country live in owner-occupied housing, we have a good living environment and one of the world's best housing standards, so much is good. But a high price level has made the threshold to get into the housing market very high too many. A class distinction is created between those who have the ability to save equity or get help from their parents and those who do not have the same opportunities. The differences are inherited. For the Workers' Party, housing, together with work, education and health, is one of the four pillars of the welfare state. In a time of record price growth in parts of the country, we believe there is a need for a more active housing policy. Prices in large parts of the country are shooting in the weather, and we believe that there is a need to strengthen government housing policy, not weaken it. There is no doubt that the solutions to the challenges we see in the housing market today are about building more. Of course, there is a great responsibility for the municipalities. I think that sometimes it can be challenging to deal with a multi-headed state. We are therefore in favour of a proposal that the attempt to coordinate all state objections must now be made into a national regime. In the press areas, we need to build more around the collective nodes. The Labour Party is more offensive than the government, and we say that the state should finance up to 70 pst. by large collective efforts if the municipalities undertake to build adequate housing. Fortunately, many municipalities are currently operating an active housing policy. Sandnes, Randaberg and Hamarøy are good examples of that. Then we say today that we are willing to demand that the municipalities make their own housing plans, but then it is absolutely essential that we also take care of the House Bank. I have to express a concern about the government's constant attack on the House Bank. The loan envelopes have been reduced by 7 billion. kr, it is cut off in housing social skills grants, we heard about the cuts in the lift grant, it is a more market-based interest rate model that can have consequences on the day the interest starts to rise, and even fewer than before the start of the loan. In our alternative budget, therefore, we are proposing a strong strengthening of the House Bank, and today we are among other things. to promote a proposal to explore a differentiated interest system that can contribute to higher achievement of the objectives of housing policy. We are also involved in promoting a proposal that young people with low equity, but with good income, can once again have the opportunity to get a start-up loan. Housing saving for young people is good and good, but all statistics show us that it's the ones that have the most from before, that make use of that scheme. On the other hand, the start-up loan can be targeted at those who really need help to get into the housing market, and we believe it is particularly important, all the time when the right-hand side breaks clear election promises and tightens up the equity requirement. At the same time, we believe that we need to provide facilities for those who have to rent a dwelling in periods of time. We have been proposing several rental homes for several years, and this year we also propose 800 more student homes than the government does. We believe that the government needs to consider changes that will facilitate even more rental-to-owner projects, and we also agree to propose that the government investigate new depreciation rules for professional landlords, so that more tenants can have more stable and good living environments. The housing market needs more policy, not less. Several people have to have the opportunity to own their own homes. For this reason, the Workers' Party today, together with other parties, is proposing strong measures to speed up housing in the press areas. Then I want to praise the new City Council in Oslo, which has taken over a huge housing deficit after 18 years of right-wing rule. Fortunately, this year almost 1,000 more dwellings are being started than under the right-hand regime, and more dwellings are being regulated in Oslo. That's very good. While we need a policy for the press areas and the big cities, we need a housing policy for the whole country. Then we have to strengthen the House Bank, not weaken it. I think it is sad that we do not get a majority for more proposals today, and that the majority in this Chamber are voting down the vast majority of the proposals that – as the rapporteur also said – received massive support during the hearing. It is primarily sad for all those who are now unable to get into the housing market. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Labour Party will vote in favour of the proposal for Decision I.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e424	The working party has promoted ten housing policy proposals, and had it not been for the most part turning open doors, it would have been very interesting there. But the government is running a lot of these proposals, and that's why they don't get a majority in the hall. However, in the case of other proposals which do not receive a majority in the Chamber, the main issue is that the Workers' Party is promoting proposals that go quite far beyond State control, for example. overarching the spatial planning of municipalities, compulsory housing for municipalities, etc. But let's take a look: I heard that the two speakers who were before me were talking about social housing policy, and I think we should get to grips with it. The market in Norway today is very differentiated. You have a huge price increase in the press areas, while the other places are not the same picture. There are big differences between cities. Oslo has had huge price increases, while in Stavanger there has been a decline. The most important thing we have to do is get the building pace up and bring down the construction costs – we have to do something about the offer page. And we have to make it even easier for the municipalities to avoid opposition rounds that expose major expansions. And for the first time in many years we see that the start of construction of new dwellings is on the way up. The government's simplification policy works, and that's what we need more of. Ski municipality is an example of how the government works. They were given the opportunity to build a new part of the city with room for 10,000 new inhabitants. These are measures that help to increase prices, and this is also a good example of how the government is already intensifying along collective efforts. It is a public task to conduct a social housing policy, and I think that aspect often drowns in the general debate on housing. Therefore, I would like to draw up some examples of what the government is doing, both to address some of the proposals that the Workers' Party has taken up here, and to look at what has been done by the government. One important thing we have done is that we have corrected the faults of the Workers' Party and the red-green government in the housing support system. From 2009 onwards, the rates for calculating housing aid have not followed the price increase and the increase in housing costs. Thus, beneficiaries of housing aid have fallen out of the scheme, although they have had the same support needs. The government is now correcting the Workers' Party's error and has proposed in the State budget that the rates be adjusted as price increases begin in 2017. So we close a hole in the social security network, so that fewer falls outside. The red-greens also made another big mistake with the housing support system, by calculating it from one to two year old income figures. And we're going to fix it right now. We also make sure that we get twice as many rental homes as under the red-green government. We have invested in grants for several rental homes for disadvantaged people in the housing market. We want to help the municipalities to settle refugees and other disadvantaged people, and the government increased the frames three times in 2015. In 2016 we continued the investment, and this year the framework corresponds to a total of 2,000 dwellings. There are twice as many red-greens in government. These are real solutions. We also target the initial loans, where the red-green government did not dare to give priority. A lot of people have been talking about starting loans today. Owning their own home provides predictability and security, as most people want. Those who do not receive a loan to buy a dwelling in a normal bank can apply for a starting loan from the municipality. But with the Labour Party line, the House Bank began to become a competitor to the private banks, and those who needed the most had too little follow-up from the municipalities. It corrected the government in 2014, i.e. shortly after we got in, when the start-up loan became more focused on disadvantaged people in the housing market. The change has led to more loans being granted to those with poor finances and to each beneficiary getting more in loans than they did before. We also ensure that we have a frame with which the House Bank itself is satisfied when it comes to both level and device. Finally, I would like to remind my colleague from the Labour Party that one would like to come here and present a rhetoric that it was not built enough in Oslo before, but then one has to look at one's own vote in Oslo City Council, where, according to OBOS, one agreed to vote for fewer dwellings than the city council offered, and one lies far behind the great promises given to Oslo's inhabitants to double the housing structure. What has happened in Oslo is that the Workers' Party has introduced a property tax, and it has become more expensive to live, but you haven't got the speed of the housing construction, as promised in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e445	Thanks to the case spokesman for a good review of the case, and thanks to the proposers, who will give us the opportunity to discuss an important topic, housing policy, which concerns far more committees than ours. It concerns a wide range of professional committees at Stortinget, so it is useful for one to have such a debate. I would also like to thank the representative Kapur for showing what this government is doing, because in the first two articles you could get the impression that one has done little. Therefore, it is very good that the representative Kapur told us that the government is offensive even when it comes to housing policy. As an introduction, I found it ironic that both the proposers and the case spokesperson have the approach of having a clearer housing policy from the state by weakening local self-government at several points. All the time one knows that the state today is governed by a government with the Progress Party and the Right, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that Norwegian municipalities are mainly governed by the Red-Green parties, it's a little strange that one has so little confidence in local self-government that one believes that the Right-Forward Party government is better able to govern housing policy than all the local politicians in Norway – who a year ago were given the confidence to play the leading role in land planning. The point of progress is that if you are young or old, poor or rich – if you want to live in the city or in the countryside, you should have the opportunity to buy and own your own dwelling. It's important for us as human beings, it's also important for society that we organize ourselves that way. The goal I think everyone is a few about, the question is about the remedy. We do not believe that the solution for housing policy is that we should have higher taxes, more taxes, more taxes and more bureaucracy. Our job as politicians is to help people, so it's easy not to go in for more fees. Rather than imposing even more sanctions, we need to rethink and make an effort to solve the challenges we face in the housing market. The most important thing to solve the challenges we face is to build more housing. The most important thing to be able to build more dwellings is that we help municipalities to be yes municipalities – that they can regulate and plan enough housing, and that it will be interesting for developers to expand. Then we have to simplify regulations to make housing cheaper. We need to simplify the Planning and Building Act to make it easier and faster to plan. Hence, the most important document that the Storting should take care of in the next few months, Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth There are offensive proposals by the government to simplify planning processes and the possibilities for exemption in planning and building laws. It will be the tool that local politicians in Norway need to develop even more into yes-communities and to be positive actors in order to speed up housing. I've registered little involvement around this proposition, I'm particularly busy with what the Workers' Party thinks about it. I've heard little about what they say. They are given the opportunity to clarify their vision when Stortinget is going to deal with the proposition after Christmas, but I believe a lot of local politicians, including the Labour Party, could think a little bit more clearly of whether or not one supports the main lines of Prop. 149 L. In today's debate, I would like to challenge the Labour Party whether they can say a little bit about each one of them will land when it comes to that proposition. Do you want to give local politicians, their own 200 spokesmen, greater ability to carry out faster planning processes and to be able to grant exemptions that make sense to blame for the evolution of society, or you want it to be difficult to get planned – with a member of the community that is to countersigns, as one thinks from the red-green years? Then I was a local politician and experienced many contradictions. Now local politicians feel a more positive attitude from the state and more of a yes attitude from the state. So I hope the Labour Party can clarify its vision on Prop. 149 L, and they're not on that line that you can get an idea of. We are told by the comment made today that we: ‘is engaged in a housing policy that simplifies planning processes, strengthens the freedom of municipalities in planning and construction matters and limits unnecessary long objection rounds’. I would hope that there were more than four parties behind such an observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e466	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for promoting an important issue of establishing a more active housing policy, and I thank the case rapporteur, who has dropped this through so far. In this country, we have a strong tradition of people owning their own homes, at least much of their lives. It's a trick, and it has to be a main goal to facilitate that this is the most common for as many people as possible. The Labour Party has, with its proposals, provided a bag of assorted drops of housing policy proposals. Here's a lot of good that it's important to think thoroughly through. At the same time we are well aware that it is going against a campaign, and it is good to be able to refer back to: We proposed this in Stortinget as late as last year, etc. The Christian People's Party sees several proposals we choose to support, because even if it is time for elections, the substance of politics has the right to run, and here are proposals that we consider to be responsible for what is good housing policy to build more and better homes. Select - back to the drop bag. In some of the proposals, we have joined forces with other parties. As a centre party, we have the advantage that we can support lurking and flexible solutions on both sides of the policy – focusing on solutions and not ideologies and system thinking, which we may have seen in this matter. The House Bank is an important tool in Norwegian housing policy and has been so for many decades. The Bank has good arrangements for grants for the upgrading of dwellings, but we see that there may be a need for grants for adaptation and grants for lifts, which are a contribution, among other things. for older people to live longer at home. It is well in line with what most older people want, and is good management of the resources of care for the elderly in the municipalities. Housing policy must be social, but at the same time interacting with other policy areas in order to make good society even better. It is also important to underline the link between housing policy and climate policy. Housing policy instruments need to interact with Enova’s more energy-efficient upgrades and self-produced energy systems. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned that the threshold for entering the housing market is not insurmountable for initial start-ups, and therefore supports the proposal that goes along with this. Rent-to-owner or rent-before-owner, as it used to be called, is based on good experience in several municipalities. The aim is to give people with specific challenges the opportunity to get into the housing market. It can be anything from refugees who have come with two empty hands and a suitcase to socially disadvantaged and drug addicts. We think it is a good idea to assess whether this model can be stimulated by the Husbank, so that it becomes more recent in several places. I have already mentioned the relationship between housing policy and climate policy. The Christian People's Party has twice in the last few years promoted its own representative publishers who have had densities with housing around the traffic hub as a major point. More move to the cities. It's a phenomenon known from large parts of the world. This presents some challenges, but it also provides climate policy benefits that it is important that we benefit from good social planning. We therefore support this proposal and stress the importance that one good purpose should not weaken the other. Finally, it is important that food land is not built up, and that consideration for cultivated land must be included in these contexts when discussing housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e488	With this I am promoting the proposals of the Christian People's Party and of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e491	The representative Geir S. Tskedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e496	The parties share the wish of the proposers for a more active housing policy so that more people, especially young people, are able to obtain their own housing. Government and municipal authorities need to facilitate increased access to housing at a price that ordinary employees have the opportunity to pay. The central party supports many of the proposals put forward in the draft representative, but has counter-representatives against some of them. I will briefly explain our assessments. The House Bank is the main tool of government housing policy. The current government has weakened the role of the House Bank by reducing the lending framework. In the setting, we suggest that while the loan frameworks under the red-green government were raised from 13.5 billion. DKK to 25 billion kr, the sitting government has cut in the frames. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we propose an increase in the limits from 18 to 25 billion. kr. It is a necessary lift, which includes, among other things: was made up of both the construction industry and housing cooperation during the hearing on this proposal for a representative. The Centre Party has made its own proposal for amendments to the Start-up Loan Regulation of the Husbank. We agree that young people without sufficient equity should be reintroduced into the plan. However, this should be done by establishing two schemes, so that we do not run the risk that permanent difficulties in the housing market currently covered by the scheme will weaken their position in the queue for start-up loans. As the representative Kapur pointed out, this was the argument for changing the previous arrangement, that they came too far in line. Our proposal takes care of both long-term disadvantaged and young first-time start-ups without sufficient equity. I hope that more parties can support our proposal and that there can be a majority in this Chamber today. The centre party does not support the proposal for the introduction of statutory housing plans for municipalities. This is justified by the fact that, through the area section of the municipal plan, municipalities are to facilitate housing by devoting sufficient land to it. In addition, for many municipalities it would be desirable to develop own housing plans, but this should not be a statutory responsibility irrespective of local needs. We are also sceptical about the proposal where a government is preparing a new public model to calculate the need for housing. It is a municipal responsibility to ensure that there is access to land that is proportionate to the need. A new state involvement in this area is likely to be of limited benefit in the work of municipalities to solve that task. There is a broad political consensus to facilitate increased housing around the public nodes. However, on the part of the Centre Party, we are concerned about the practice of national policies on housing, land and transport planning. The guidelines shall: ‘It is necessary to maintain good food soils, but soil protection must be balanced against the needs of the large community.’ In practice, this provision in the guidelines is used to rediscover thousands of targets with our best food soil. It's not durable. The Central Party, together with the Christian People's Party, is therefore promoting its own proposal: ‘The government is asked to facilitate an increase in housing around the public nodes. It is a prerequisite that food soil is protected against degradation.» The Central Party and the Christian People's Party also agree on another proposal: ‘The government asks the government to assume that in areas with low population sizes where housing construction is important for maintaining the population, more scattered housing can be provided provided for, provided that there is strict soil protection.’; In my view, this is an important proposal in line with the intentions of the proposers for a more active housing policy. We must not make it more difficult than is necessary for people who want to live outside the centre, and as such can contribute to the goal set by a unanimous increase, namely to maintain the pattern of residence in Norway. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Central Party has made on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e531	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e537	Having a safe home to live in is important to all of us. It creates a secure framework around children and the life of the family, and it is important for those outside the housing market to get help on the way to a safe home. Having a place to live is often the platform you need to get on with life, whether it's with study or work, and therefore an active housing social policy is important. The government has it. Let me just highlight some concrete measures. Firstly, we are now focusing on the housing social work strategy, where we have now established one door in by establishing digital tools. It will speed up the municipal housing social work. We have increased the grant for rental homes, so that it can now be established twice as many as before the government change. We have corrected weaknesses in the housing support system. And we've targeted the start-up loan scheme. The start-up loan scheme was such that in 2013 it had 43 pst. of recipients less than NOK 400000 in income. Since we target the scheme against those who have long-term financing problems and are difficult to obtain owner-occupied housing, it is currently 93 pst. which has less than 400000 kroner in income. When some parties now want to reverse the targeting of the start-up loan scheme, it will help to make it more difficult for those who have difficulties in the housing market. I note that some parties believe that increasing the framework of the Husbank is the answer to the challenges of the housing market. It's not. There is no shortage of capital in the housing market. There is no shortage of cheap capital in the housing market. And if we look at the House Bank, they're looking at a smaller consumption of 1 billion. kr this year with a frame of 18 br. kr. The house bank has an important role to play in housing policy, but the answer today is not to increase the Husbank framework. What the government has come up with is to improve the supply side of the housing market. That policy works. In 2016, 29 600 dwellings were started. It's up to 15 pst. from the corresponding period in 2015. And in 2016, that's the current year, we're expected to get the highest starting number since 1982. I agree with Stine Renate Råheim that it has over time been built too little. Therefore, the government has helped to renew and simplify the entire planning and building law and the technical regulations, and we have a government that says yes when municipalities have proper development plans to which there must be objections – like Oslo, which is now able to continue in the city and can build up to 120 000 dwellings, such as Ski, which has now got the right to build a new part of the city not far from the new Ski station, where there can be 6 000 new dwellings and 10 000 can have a place to live. There are major regional differences, but we see that in urban areas in particular the real challenges are. That's why we have to combine a policy where we simplify the planning and building law, make it faster, simpler and cheaper to build new homes, while building more around the collective nodes. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that when the state enters into large investments in public transport, we must also expect that it can be built more around the collective nodes. That was the main reason I agreed to the plan for 6,000 new homes in Ski. This is also why the government has now put in place not only urban environmental agreements, but also urban development agreements, where we see transport and land use in the context. It can help to achieve the objectives we set for both transport policy and climate and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e552	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e557	I can inform the council that my name is Håheim and not Råheim – but I take it as a compliment. The councils talked about targeting. Then there's something I don't get to vote. So you target the start-up loan scheme by taking young people out as a target group. So they're out. At the same time, it boasts that there has been an increase in the savings limit in Housing Saving for Youth. What we know about Housing saving for youth is that it hits the kids who serve the most, who have the most wealth, or who have parents who can help them. So what this government has done, while they're talking about targeting, is give more to the kids who have the most, and take from those who have the least. Then I wonder why it's okay for this government that the community subsidizes those who have the most, through the BSU system, while cutting for those who have the least, by taking away from them the opportunity to get a start loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e564	Here, there was a lot of rhetoric and very little content. It's not like there's just so-called rich young people saving money in the BSU. There are many young people who, over many years and hard work — working at a gas station, in hospital homes, or in other ways — save for their own housing and see it as valuable. Then it's not that young people can't get a start-up loan. The point is that we target those who have long-standing problems in financing a dwelling, regardless of whether you are a young person or an adult. The point is that it has to be targeted at those who have the biggest problems, and that's what we've done. I referred to numbers in my answer that show that in 2013, when this was a more general order, there was 43 pst. of the recipients who had less than 400000 kroner in income. In 2015, 93 pst. of recipients less than NOK 400000 in income. It shows that the scheme is targeted at those with the biggest challenges on the housing market, regardless of whether they are young or old.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e573	There is a broad political consensus to facilitate increased housing around collective nodes. From the Center Party we underline that it is subject to the condition that food soil is protected against degradation. But it's still a goal that people should be able to live in those parts of the country where it's far to the nearest collective node. We therefore propose, together with the Christian People's Party, that there should be room for more widespread housing in areas of low population and where new housing is important for maintaining the population. And here, too, we're assuming strict soil protection. Many people want to move from cities to a district municipality, who also want to live outside a residential area. Does our Council share the desire to open up more widespread housing in pig-grown areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e578	I agree with the intention of the proposal, but I believe that it is well taken care of within the guidelines we have today. We've got to build closers around public nodes in the cities. It is important for climate and environment reasons, and it is open in our state planning guidelines for more widespread settlement in district municipalities. I fully share the analysis that many want to live in a municipality where you have more space, and where you might also be able to build a larger house for a smaller money, and that there must be different demands than those we have around the collective nodes in the cities. But I believe that the intention of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party proposals is well taken care of within today's planning guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e583	I have to go back to the start-up loan scheme, because it is a reality – all studies show it – that the BSU goes to them with relatively much better advice than most. There's a lot of people working at the gas station, but many of them actually have to use their wages to live off, to say it like that. Once the initial loan scheme has been tightened up, the problem is not to secure those who are disadvantaged; the problem is no longer to open up to those who have the opportunity to operate a loan but who do not get it because they lack equity. In private banks, too, these equity requirements are now being imposed, so that many young people who have the ability to manage are nevertheless referred to remaining in a very expensive rental market, where they spend the money they could have put into the BSU if they had been able to afford to start saving up equity. That is why we want the start-up loan scheme to be wider. Doesn't the Council of State see that need?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e588	No, I think it's going the wrong way. I am very surprised that SV wants to reverse the change we have made. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was a change that the previous government had planned, precisely because one saw that the old start-up loan scheme could also contribute to increased pressure in the housing market. What we have now done is to target those who have the biggest challenges in the housing market. When the whole 93 pst. has an income of less than NOK 400000, which means that there are many of the disadvantaged who are given the opportunity to obtain a loan through the start-up loan scheme. I am very surprised if it is such that SV wants to limit their ability to get a start loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e593	It's an obvious misunderstanding. I said in my post that there was no one who disagreed that the most difficult people would get. This was a question of why not also those who just don't get it to be in the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e598	That's a new question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e603	No, that's the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e609	Then we have to clarify it in a later article. The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e616	It's amazing to witness the reality description of the Workers' Party and SV in this room. Firstly, it is very positive that the Workers' Party now wants collective action and is too collective in press areas as its capital. They will have a funding ‘up to 70 pst.’. It's important to note the words up to 70 pst., because it could mean 0 pst., as the reality was for the country's capital for seven out of eight years under the red-green government, when Oslo didn't get a penny from the reward scheme. Secondly, it is also nice to see that they have started to invest in the construction of student housing. All the time they did not get it into government, it is good that they intend to overtake the government, which is building record-breaking student homes now. But to go to the very core of housing policy challenges, I think it's important to look at what's happening locally. In order to find out which parties are most positive in residential construction and contribute most to residential construction in the country's capital, which is one of the largest press areas, OBOS had a review of regulatory matters in Oslo City Council in the period 2007–2011. The review showed that the Progress Party was the party that had contributed and voted most for housing in the capital, the second being the Right. Down on the list was the Workers' Party, and at the bottom was the Socialist Left Party, which is very concerned with subsidies, state regulation, five-year plans and other instruments. The party that does not vote for housing in its capital, where the challenges are greatest, is the party that repeatedly raises the issue of housing shortages. Another important aspect of what is happening on the housing market — especially in press areas such as the capital and other major cities — that nobody is in, is the situation we have with the large immigration that has taken place. You can't understand the housing problem in the capital without looking at who's moving into the city, and who's actually moving out of the city. Also there, the Progress Party has several times suggested that people have to live where they live, until they are able to provide housing for themselves and get work. The Workers' Party, which has promoted these proposals, and the SV, which have endorsed these proposals, are the main reasons for lack of housing, especially in the press areas, all the time they vote against housing when they have the opportunity to do so. And then they promote a series of suggestions that they're trying to sue with instruments, which gives them zero credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e631	Yes, the last post falls well on its own unfairness when you see that today more is being built in Oslo than ever. It is clear that some of the subsidies that the government has increased are important — they should have — but when there are many fewer people receiving housing support now than it was a few years ago, it is a serious social problem. But I have to go back to this start-up loan scheme: what I asked the Council of State instead was why he does not see the need for some arrangements for those who are unable to obtain loans in the private market, but can serve a loan – simply because they lack this equity – and whether or not they should be covered by this start-up loan scheme. It means to extend the scheme, not to limit it for the disadvantaged, but to extend the scheme so that more people could get it. That's what SV wants. SV also wants a good living environment, and therefore we want to take care of the green areas and the good quality of construction, such as noise protection and the possibility of having energy-efficient homes, and to have well-organised housing so that everyone can live in them, even in a full life cycle, and that you do not have to move if you are old or if you are unhappy to get hurt that makes you, for example. must have a wheelchair. So this is about quality of living, and it's been SV all over the way. I might have wanted the Council of State to say something about the tax discrimination that is currently taking place on the housing market. It's pretty strong. One is that those who depend on living in rental homes don't get anything. Those who can own get quite a tax deduction on everything they borrow, and if they buy more, they get a tax deduction on it as well. If I borrow money and buy a cabin, I get government subsidies over the tax bill for it as well. It's the same for those who build. If you build a business, you get a better tax regime than if you're a professional landlord. And more rental homes are needed; I think the council also agrees, otherwise he wouldn't have made sure that a little more money was allocated to it. Then the question is, why should it be more profitable – when you are an investor – to place your money in commercial buildings in relation to placing your money in rental homes, where you need a larger, serious sector? It is necessary because not everyone can own housing at all stages of life, and because this is a necessary contribution to a well-functioning labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e650	Let me start with the representative Njåstad, who called for the Workers' Party's position on Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth To that end, I can inform you that it will be consulted here in Stortinget on 15 December, and the suspension will not be given until February next year. But it's tense of the position here in this room to be impatient on behalf of the opposition, all the time when the country doesn't yet have a majority of the state budget. But we can promise the representative Njåstad that we are working on the matter and that they will know what we mean. I also need to comment on the housing support scheme, as it is suggested that fewer people will receive housing support next year. It's been a big drop. But I would like to say that it is very good to now regulate the peculiarities and the kind of things in the housing support system. We've been asking for that all the years this government has been sitting on, and that's what we did – I think – in seven of the eight years we spent in government. But there will be fewer recipients to next year, and what we are getting clear feedback about is that it is especially young people who are being hit, because of the disability reform and because the government has not yet come up with a permanent system that protects the housing support system. It's about young people who may have lived at home, and who are now finally going to be allowed to move into their own home, but they can't do that, because they don't get housing support. So to say that you've cleaned up the housing support system, I think I'm very sad to hear, if it's a final point, because there's a long way to go before it helps all of them that it's supposed to help. I also want to point out that the majority that today in this Chamber refuses to join us in doing something about the start-up loan, so that more young people can get a start-up loan, is the same majority that opted for removing or reducing the equity requirement in order to make it easier for young people to get a home. All four bourgeois parties stood outside this hall and gave a promise to young people, who they have broken over and over again, and then at the same time saying that you don't want to do anything about the start-up loan scheme, I feel unfair when you've tricked young people into voting. I agree that the initial loan should not be a competitor for loans in commercial banks, but there is a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin, which is what this government has done by cutting out young people as a target group. I think it's stupid that we couldn't look at that start-up loan scheme and at least give the municipalities flexibility to prioritize young people. It is also worth noting that there are parties in this room that would strengthen the House Bank and give it the larger loan framework, so that we didn't have to deprioritise anyone in the start-up loan scheme, but could also prioritise someone in. In the end, in the case of investments in the urban environment agreements: I notice that some people have responded with ‘up to 70 pst.’ but the Workers' Party added more than 1 billion. kr more than the government did this year and 700 million. kr more next year in that scheme, so we have wisely prioritised it higher than the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e663	We hear here, repeatedly, that the government has done a lot. Yes, it does. I guess there's no disagreement about that. But it is a fact that you cut in the Husbanken framework, and you make it harder to get a start-up loan – simply. But the possibility of those with the greatest opportunity is increased through the BSU scheme. It's not obvious that using the BSU in full is an opportunity for everyone, even though the Council of State in its world will later believe it. It's not like that out there. I was lucky and got to be rapporteur for a few years, and then it was possible to see in practice that the start-up loan scheme was very good for a lot of people. It worked very well by making sure that especially young people were able to get their own roof over their heads, which was the whole point. It worked well. This was work and normal youth who just had to get some help to get over the crack, get the funding in order and get their own housing. It worked -- I've seen it in practice. The right hand party and the Progress Party are now pushing competition forward by not participating in the reversal of the Start-Up Loan Facility. The people involved are not particularly competitive. That's exactly why we had an initial loan arrangement that worked. It is these people who need the House Bank, who needed the House Bank – and it worked well, as I said. Now it's just – for those of us, and for us – to take note that the government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, do not want such an arrangement for these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e672	As I interpret the debate, there is no disagreement that the start-up loan scheme should primarily address permanent difficulties. This was also the reason why the Central Party State Council in the Ministry sent out the draft hearing and the proposal for amendment. At the same time, I also see that there is a great deal of consensus here in the Chamber that it is very challenging for initial starters who do not have sufficient equity to enter the housing market. I expect that the civil parties that opted for the removal of the equity claim will also see that there are those who fall outside the arrangements that are today. The centre party is a supporter of youth housing saving, but not everyone has the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunities that lie there. There are people who have prospects for good future income, but they have zero equity, and rent prices are such that they do not have the opportunity to save some of their wages, they do not have the opportunity to save on future equity. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will be able to make some assessments of our proposal to have a two-part start-up loan scheme, i.e. a pot that provides permanent difficulties, but also a pot that can cater for those who do not have the ability to raise equity, who do not have the opportunity to save money in the BSU, and who do not have rich parents who can deposit equity or guarantee equity. So I hope that both the Council of State and other parties can make some assessments on our proposal, which basically addresses both of the issues – lastingly disadvantaged people will not be harmed, and we will be able to take care of those who do not have rich parents, who cannot enter the housing market, and who remain seated and pay on a rented dwelling for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e681	There is one side to the housing market that has not been much up in the debate, and that is the purchase of dwellings that you should not live in yourself. In Oslo today it is such that at least 40 pst. the dwellings purchased are purchased by persons who are not to live there but are to operate different types of rental. Among other things, there is an increasing rent within the system called Airbnb, especially in the inner city of Oslo, and a very large proportion of the dwellings, for example. in Sørenga, in the new fjord town, is bought up for that purpose. There are two things that we've discussed at Stortinget, which we can do for the time being in terms of the proportion of dwellings that are purchased and used for further rental, where you're not going to use the homes yourself. One is what we have discussed earlier in the case of the Ownership Act, and which the Council of State is going to promote a proposition about later, and which was reported to come in the harvest. We're going to have to get back to that. The second is the proposal that is in the position here, about what we can do to promote serious, professional rental on a larger scale, which can play a greater role in the market, so that there is less room for what's going on in other ways, which I was in the beginning. I find it a little difficult to understand the contradictions to the proposal that lies here. I had hoped that several parties had supported it. The proposal is an important one for those who want to build large, serious rental projects, and seeks to equate the depreciation rules for buildings to be used for professional renting, i.e. industrial activities, with the depreciation rules for office buildings and other types of commercial buildings. Equalising the depreciation rules does not mean that government parties will go into and ask for a more detailed analysis and refer only to something from 2014 that is otherwise called the Aarbakke Committee. One who was a member of the Aarbakke Committee, named Ernst Ravnaas, who is working on these questions, says that that question was not further assessed in the sample; there was no basis for a factual assessment of whether there is actually an impairment in rental properties used for industry, in line with rental properties used for commercial buildings. It's actually a little counter to normal, because it's often the bourgeois parties want to use tax rules to develop business, etc., that you don't want to look at and equate these depreciation rules and go into it more closely. I think that's a lot of arguments for it. It is important for the housing market to get more serious actors going, and the Stortinget should be involved in stimulating it, so I hope that more people will support the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e692	The housing aid is the most important housing social measure, and therefore I am pleased that the government has achieved clear improvements and corrected previous weaknesses in this. Underregulation started under the red-green government, in 2009. Now we've fixed it up. We've gone from equation income to actual income. It also involves more targeted and improved housing support. We've made sure that those who live in a book collection can also receive housing support, and we've extended the transitional regime. I think that's good. I agree with the statements made by representatives Stine Renate Håheim and Karin Andersen that there is still room for improvement in housing support. We still need to discuss how we can target, how we can ensure that those who have real needs are given the opportunity to receive housing support. But what we've got in place now, I think is important and correct. As far as the House Bank is concerned, I am still surprised that it is made such an important point that that framework should be increased, when this year's framework is 18 billion. kr and there is a sub-consumption of 1 billion. kr. Then the answer isn't that it's going to increase to 25 billion. kr. The situation on the housing market, especially in Oslo and the press areas, is not that there is too little cheap capital. It's not too cheap a capital. There is also a problem for young people entering the housing market. When young people enter the housing market, the problem is not that there is too little cheap capital. Responding with more cheap capital into the housing market will create even greater pressures and create an even more challenging situation for young people on the housing market if we experience a strong fall in housing prices. Therefore, we can agree with the analysis that it is difficult to get into the housing market, but we have to look at why it is difficult, and what we can do about it. One of the most important things we can do with the situation is make sure that it can be built more, and that it can be built more reasonably. We do that by saying yes to Oslo, that they can realise a housing potential up to 120,000 dwellings. We do that by simplifying, by allowing half of the small apartments to be built without universal design requirements, which contributes to 200,000-300,000 kroner at lower costs. We do that through simplifications of the Planning and Building Act and technical regulations. Yesterday we announced that we are now looking at simplification of the technical regulations for rehabilitation, which will also be important measures for more rehabilitation in Oslo and other cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e703	Housing policy is basically about our will and not least our ability to build the country. The population is increasing, but so is the change in population. There's a lot of pressure on cities, not least Oslo, which many people have been in, but at the same time the population growth in Norway is spreading very unevenly. There are significant housing challenges also in the districts, at least in parts of the districts, where there is such a high risk of building new ones that lack of housing and risk capital hinders growth, development and housing. Not least, we have an ageing population, and it makes very high demands on the quality and design of the housing stock. Then we cannot sit quietly in the boat, as the government does. It will lead to increased social disparities, where there will be even greater differences between those inside and those outside, and there is an obstacle to good social development both in the city and in the countryside. The market can solve a lot, but this is obviously a field where the market needs help. We need a raise for housing. It is primarily about building more dwellings now, but also about meeting quality and climate requirements. Norway has a great starting point, not only for building, but also for building in a long-term and forward-looking way, and with today's situation, with over 130 000 unemployed, we should have used that opportunity better than what the government is doing. We have submitted ten proposals that involve obligations for both the State and the municipality. In a familiar style, the Right Party and the Advance Party push local democracy ahead of them when these are things they don't want to have done. I can't see that making housing plans in each municipality is going to be a threat to local democracy; on the contrary, it must be a great strength for local democracy to involve the population in how it is to be built. The government opted to remove or reduce the equity requirement, respectively. It was probably the very first election promise they jumped from. They've been cutting the House Bank, but they're proposing a few new arrests. For young people, it is sad that, in addition to broken election vows, they have tightened up the start-up loan scheme and, in general, have a resistance to building student housing in the extent needed. There are few policy areas that affect people's everyday lives and futures as much as housing policy, and therefore it is disappointing that the government is so uninterested in this field. But when you see that the government isn't able to get a government budget, maybe that's a reason why you don't want to take responsibility in this field either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e716	The first concerns the housing stock. It is true that some changes have now been made to the housing aid that may have a positive impact on the long term, but the problem, as stated in the Husbank annual report for 2015, is: «Statistical evidence shows that the rate of congestion increases significantly more than the increase in housing aid, while the average income also decreases.» It may be right to calculate the income from a more accurate time now, but the problem is that this gap is large, and the government's own figures show that fewer people get housing support in a situation where housing prices have exploded. The wages and incomes of those who have the least have fallen, and so there are fewer people who get housing support. Then there is no strengthening, then there is a weakening, and then the government has not fulfilled its promise in that area. In the case of the equity requirement, it is ‘screaming’. Where the government said they would remove it, there was an increase – also for young people who could get help from the start-up loan scheme – just for those young people I thought the government parties understood some of the problem, when they said they would remove the equity requirement. But it is quite clear that it was just an empty promise. The last thing is talking about the wave of old age, and you talk about welfare technology, but you've stopped talking about life-cycle housing. I understand that when I look at TEK17 and in the budget, because there is a lift cut, so that fewer older people who currently live in low blocks will be able to live in their apartment in the future, because it is not possible to get out and out of the apartment. And so you're promoting a new TEK; it's going to be tighter and smaller homes, so that if we need a wheelchair and a scooter, it's almost impossible to live there, especially because you're kissing inside. Then you can't live there if you have such needs. And you even lower the requirement related to noise, and then you try to say that this is going to lower the prices. But no, housing prices are put on the market – housing prices, where housing prices are high, are put on the market, that is, precisely where the government says that these small, narrow, non-life-cycle dwellings should be built. It's in the middle of the market that the representative Bøhler talked about, that all of those who buy homes now are not going to live there, but are going to rent them out, either on a longer basis or through Airbnb, and so those people are subsidizing us through the tax system and in other areas. And then you try to push disabled people and old people in front of you and blame them for the fact that they're the ones that make housing prices increase. [[President clubs]] This has only led to...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e731	The president reminds me of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e736	I have listened to both the Workers' Party and SV in this case, and even if you stand here and have a lot of exciting rhetoric and, in part, almost anger at today's situation, it's just rhetoric. I'm calling for politics. Now let's look at the difference between rhetoric and politics in what the Workers' Party and SV say. If we look at what has been said here today, the last years and history, the Workers' Party and SV believe that it is not being built enough, that there is not enough housing going on, while we see quite clearly that for the first time in many years the start of new dwellings is on the way up, as opposed to the Workers' Party and SV left behind. The working party and SV say that they are concerned that housing prices have to fall, at the same time it is precisely these batches that are willing to send up the building prices – not later than the summer, when a decision was taken that, according to the Association of Housing Producers, would make it 100 000 kroner more expensive to build a small apartment of 60 m2. The working party and SV want more housing to be built for young people. This government is building several student homes. We make it cheaper to build student homes, and we make it cheaper to build small homes, while the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party in Oslo will not remove the rigid norm that opens up to build more small homes where most of them are needed. The working party and SV say that they are concerned that it is expensive to live, but what is the lesson from Oslo? Here the Workers' Party and SV have just introduced a property tax, where more people who live in Obo's homes, which I don't want to call housing sharks, have to pay that property tax. The housing prices are on the way up, and the housing costs are on the way up. That is the result of that policy. And what has SV learned from that? Well, they think this is so good that they want a national property tax, so that people living in the country have to pay a national property tax to stagnate the price increase in press areas. This is not exactly a good housing or district policy. Then we hear very often that both the Workers' Party and SV are for local democracy, that the municipalities need to get more muscles to build. Then here we see two proposals that are a complete override of local democracy, the state must decide that the municipalities must make them and those municipal plans. The State may require the municipalities to build dwellings. Then I have a question for my dear colleague from Oslo, Jan Bøhler: Have you checked whether your colleague in the Labour Party in Oslo, Raymond Johansen, wants you to law him how many dwellings he is going to build in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e747	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e752	The representative of Håheim has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e755	I notice that the right-hand side is on the defensive. How do we notice that? Well, that's because they're now more concerned with running audits of former governments and of the City Council of Oslo than with looking ahead and fronting their own policies. When one can no longer talk about eight red-green years, one has now begun to say that the Workers' Party and other parties in this room are not concerned with politics, but are just talking about rhetoric. With respect to reporting: here in this room there are parties that have promoted more than ten concrete proposals to increase housing, to live in housing, to increase the pace, and then you answer it in a – I am a little uncertain whether it is a parliamentary expression – childish way. You don't answer, you just say that this is rhetoric and not politics. The politics is here, but the truth is that the majority in this room is going to vote it down today. I think that's sad. It's political disagreements, and it's fair, but it's anything but rhetoric, because this is about the reality and everyday life of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e762	Here are many concrete proposals that would have made us have built more dwellings. I note that the majority do not want to join, and that they are talking about rhetoric – the parties that opted for the removal of the equity requirement, and that have made changes to the start-up loan regulation so that just those young people who could have used it do not get loans there either, and the equity requirement increases, and the government does not intend to remove it. That's rhetoric, and there's a total lack of follow-up of your own promises. The other rhetoric is about housing prices. Yes, building prices go down if you lower the requirements for quality and availability – of course, across what the government has promised, that we should have a more universally designed society. And then people should be able to stay and maybe go on a visit and go to do where they want to? We don't need any more inaccessible dwellings in this housing market. There are available dwellings we need. So you say this is going to lower the prices. No, it doesn't; it's going to increase the profits of those who build. Because it is these small dwellings that are to be built in those areas where today, to a large extent, there are others who buy up the apartments and rent them out for a different purpose – and those people we, in fines and buckets, subsidize in many areas. It is quite right that SV wants us to look at the tax system for housing, because everyone who now takes out loans to several dwellings to rent out gets tax subsidies. And can anyone explain to me what kind of sensible purpose it is when we have too little subsidies into the housing market of those who don't have housing and can't afford to live? That's what SV wants: we want to spend the money on those who need help to get a safe home, and on those who have more than enough, and who can have one and two and three and four homes to rent out, for whom they have loans, get a tax deduction, for example. And then you look at the taxation of secondary housing and other things. This can be done through a national property tax, which is investigated, out and out, and as all economists say is right, because today we subsidize those who have housing, and too little those who need it. So the problem now is that housing prices are increasing so dramatically, and that many more people are struggling on the housing market now than they did before. It's not just that they don't get in, but many people also get a debt that they can't live with, especially if the interest rate should rise a little bit, and then we have to have more measures than the government comes with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e779	I am pleased with the great commitment of housing policy, and it goes along several dimensions, among other things. the social housing policy, where many measures have been taken by the government, where we still believe that targeting the start-up loan scheme is correct and where we have helped to strengthen the housing support scheme. It's also good that there's a lot of commitment to how we can help build more around the collective nodes. The government has now developed tools that can contribute to it, and the fact that we have a yes-government, which also says yes to the development around the collective nodes, also contributes to the construction of it more. Then I register that more people point out the need to build even more. Let me then just show that so far in 2016 the start of the number of dwellings has gone up 15 pst. from last year. In 2016, we are expected to have the highest start-up rate since 1982, in other words the highest start-up rate in several decades. That shows that the policy is working. At the same time, we need to recognise that the large input of cheap capital into the housing market contributes to imbalances and to repress housing prices. This means that the government also looks at the capital issue in the light of proposals from the Financial Supervisory Authority and Norway’s Bank. Here it's necessary to think along several axes. We want to continue the simplification work. It is necessary to speed up, make sure that there are fewer fights, and make sure that we have more of what is demanded in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e786	The representative Mudasar Kapur has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e791	I will not make any major attempt to sum up the whole debate, until we have discussed too many subjects, and there are ten points in the proposal. However, let me summarise the most important thing we have pointed out, that we have made it easier for municipalities to regulate residential areas, there are fewer state objections. This makes it more suitable for residential construction, and we see it in the form of the start-up of several dwellings. We've had a record bet on collective development. This means that we can say yes to projects like 10,000 more homes in Ski, which are helping to dampen the pressure on the big cities. We have simplified legislation to make it more reasonable and easier to start new buildings. It's cheaper to build, and it gets the pace up. So it's the relationship, the totality, that makes this stand up, not increase taxes and state overrides, as my colleagues in the Workers' Party and SV want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e798	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e812	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e822	First, I will be allowed to thank the members of the Cooperation Committee for the discussion of the Announcement. St. 27 for 2015–2016 ‘Digital agenda for Norway’. I would also like to thank all the actors who have given the message a lot of attention, both at the hearing and at the seminar, and with constructive input. The purpose of the communication is to present to the government its superior policy on how we in Norway can make the best use of ICT for society. The three main pillars of the message are user-righted and effective public administration, value creation and participation for all and electronic communication plans. Norway is today one of the most digitised countries in the world, developments here have gone fast, and we will expect more and more digitisation of both public and private services. At the same time, digital policy is in fact lagging behind. One challenge is that digital policy is at risk in most and in most policy areas. It has probably at times made it imperative to focus on both directions and priorities alone. In this big message, the government gives a good overview of many of the digital challenges we face, but when the digital policy is to be made concrete, it is not always as easy and just as obvious to find out what is most important. Is it security, is it justice, is it competence, is it education, is it sharing economy, is it platforms, is it broadcasting, or is it actually telecom? The Committee has shown to a large extent some that the Digital Agenda is responding well to the status and the main challenges facing Norway that it must resolve before digital policy, but which is also a very rapid development in this area, and it is already approaching six months since the message was produced, and the digital and technological world, and indeed it has changed at that time. Only take autonomous driving gear, which is a clear example of exactly that. The most important task for further development of our digital society is to ensure that all actors, at all stages, are rigged for a continuous policy development that will, at the same time, last for both flexibility and perseverance. In these comments, the Committee, inter alia: in particular, two important areas to which the message also refers. There is a regulatory framework for procurement in the public sector, and it is also more important to let private operators go as suppliers. This is consistent with the feedback received by the Committee and by the seminar, which clearly indicated that better interaction between the public and the private should be encouraged in order to achieve the desired development. When the Digital Agenda was presented to the Stortinget, the Transport and Communication Committee was the one to which it was addressed. It's a proper signal to my mind, also considering that the basic element of a well-digitated society is actually a well-functioning echonet. In 2013, there was no clearly defined target for digital infrastructure work. It has given the government and the cooperation parties a good basis for further work. Efforts to find the best incentives for rapid and efficient deployment and also exploitation of this network so that we can get a holistic transport network for digital communications need to be intensified. Finally, I would like once again to thank colleagues both in my own committee and in the other committees for their good cooperation in the discussion of the Digital Agenda. The importance of cross-sectoral involvement attached to the digital is also something that the Committee has developed as very important to ensure that we are in the forefront of a holistic policy development – a digital policy that can turn Norway into the smart society we want. With that I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e842	Let me start there also the case rapporteur started, and thank you for a good work by the committee and not least the case rapporteur, it has been a relatively comprehensive effort to try to find out about a complex and comprehensive subject. Norway and the rest of the world are facing a fundamental shift. Often it is formulated as the fourth industrial revolution. Digitalisation is now taking over all sectors and changing the way we interact. It creates new ways to create values, and it creates many opportunities, but it also creates many societal challenges. Norway is relatively well equipped to meet the changes. We have a highly educated population and a relatively well-developed infrastructure, and we are using new technology early on. My great concern, however, is that we underestimate the significance of the consequences of the upheaval. The prerequisite for a successful transition is that we are able to be ahead of each other, that we are preparing for what is coming, and that we are able to take control of the social consequences of development and not just get them caught as they arise. This big message is an attempt to respond to these challenges. The government should be very grateful for that. However, there are several weaknesses in the notification. Unanswered issues relating to allocation and regulation are not addressed in the notification. One of the potential consequences of digitisation is a concentration of power, of both knowledge power, political power and economic power. It will in turn lead to greater differences. It is thus a challenge for one of the pillars of stable Norwegian society, namely the small differences between people. There should have been a more thorough discussion in the notification of these changes and how they will affect Norwegian nutrition, work and society – and how we ensure that we avoid the undesirable effects. If the future is to be digital, it has to be digital for everyone, and the first prerequisite for it is a satisfactory infrastructure across the country, so that all citizens and the entire business world have equal opportunities to participate in the digital society. Where there is no basis for commercial expansion, we must have other means. I therefore believe that we must also formulate an overall ambition and plan for ensuring a nationwide infrastructure. I believe the digital motorway should be part of the national transport plan presented by the government to spring. Despite the fact that as a nation we have a good starting point for meeting the digital future, we have greater potential. In the World Economic Forums Global Information Technology Report of 2015, Norway is at the bottom of 24th place in the use of technology by the authorities and in 30th place in the purchase of new advanced technologies. In view of the fact that the public sector is a significant part of the value creation, I think we should have ambitions to be further up on that ranking. The public sector uses approx. 460 B.C.E. kr every year on purchases, and according to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will be approx. 16.6 B.C.E. of those used for ICT purchases. The question is whether it is possible to make better use of these resources, not only to purchase services and goods, but also to facilitate the development of a Norwegian digital industry. We need a clear strategy on how public procurement in general and ICT procurement in particular can contribute to the development of a competitive business and sustainable jobs that can also survive after the fourth industrial revolution. Society is becoming more and more complicated, and a fundamental prerequisite for meeting the digital shift is that citizens have adequate skills. We need skills to handle a digital world from childhood. A competitive business needs competent staff who can change. The Labour Party believes that measures such as coding as compulsory subjects at school, 1000 more ICT places of study and a skills reform in the labour market are examples of the type of action we should take. Without extraordinary efforts to build the necessary skills across the whole population, the risk of changes shifting entire occupational groups out of work is high and both unemployment and wage differentials are increasing. Tripartite cooperation must be mobilised in order to achieve this, and the State must, of course, take its share of responsibility as an active party to that cooperation. In the digital community, we know more about each other than ever before. That knowledge can be used and abused and has become an important commodity. The very few know how the electronic tracks we leave behind are used, preserved and passed on. At the same time, we become increasingly dependent on robust infrastructure and are vulnerable to operational disruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e864	This roll-out message does not respond adequately to either how to ensure the safety of the infrastructure or how to protect the individual. There's got to be more work to do, and it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e867	The rapporteur, Mr Eidsheim, gave a thorough and good account of the complexity of the matter. So I'm going to approach this area in a slightly different way, where it's insecure. Because it's now that no one fully knows what the future brings. We all remember the films «Back to the Future», where we saw small pills that became large pizzas in the micro, but the use of telephone booths was maintained. Mobile phone? ‘No way’. So what are we not seeing today that will be the happiness of the future, or also the accident of the future? How are we going to be prepared to meet something we don't know what is? That's the challenge. Today, when we are dealing with the digital agenda issue, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to boast by the government, which has worked hard to achieve a common interaction, especially in the field of justice and defence, on digital security. That's why I want to dedicate my post to the area of security and vulnerability. In the last few weeks there has been a lot of talk about "The Dark Net". We have all been affected by the 'Dark Room'. We know that ICT crime costs society 19 billion. kr every year. The future warriors and terrorist attacks will not take place on the ground, they will take place in cyberspace. We live at a time when it doesn't depend on the armaments, but on the technology development, the skills of a computer, the knowledge of our operators and cyber-warriors, and not least our ability to see the whole. This autumn, the NRK has revealed that IT consultants in India have had master access to all Statoil’s facilities and platforms without the company’s knowledge. This frightens me, because at worst, their access could have triggered a terrorist act that had led to a national disaster we have not witnessed before. But I also see that the Council of State Hauglie in these days announces a new big message about the safety of the Norwegian base. That's good. We also see a general responsibility where the whole of the sectors is not well cared for. Defence and police today have a common responsibility for our security, and it is their responsibility to avert potential terrorist attacks and other incidents that affect our security, whether financial, energy, health or infrastructure – yes, only imagination sets limits. The work on digital security has at times been characterised by fragmentation and silhouette thinking, responsibilities as well. It's nobody's fault – you can't say that the former government and governments have not done the job. It is in the nature of the matter that we cannot quite predict what is coming around the next turn. It might not be so strange, just because it's very demanding to see the whole thing in this area. Evolution is going extremely fast. What we did just a few months ago is scrapped today. The changes in the law as we know the processes today will never be able to be up-to-date on the need. It also means that we need to simplify and streamline the ability to turn faster. Norway needs to be able to put in place a framework to meet these challenges as best it can be done with the knowledge of the present. The reason is quite simple: we Nordics are at the top of the world in technology use, but unfortunately we are also the most blue-eyed when it comes to data security. We simply trust too much that the systems are working, and we trust that the state has full control. Has it? The number of hackers is increasing. Industrial espionage and the loss of technology undermine our business. We have defense secrets that are being tapped, and we have a threat picture out there that gets to know the scope of it. A profiled cyberwarman said directly that he did not sleep well at night and is pessimistic in view of the future. This at least scares me. You can kill people by connecting to their pacemaker. This fall we have spent time discussing autonomous cars and ships. I dare not think that someone is connecting to the future driverless cars, driverless trains, or via the PC in the aircraft’s cockpit, as we know is being used today, and is controlling the vessel wherever it might be. The government is working a lot to get this whole blockage around cyber. Closer cooperation between private, business and public and public awareness-raising among the majority of people needs to be given much more attention. Digital agenda is a major step in the right direction. That is why I also ask that we start thinking loudly about how to solve the challenges of the future on data security. The main focus we need now is how to raise Norway's ability to deal with digital crises in the future. The future has begun now, and we're in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e900	Access to a good-capacity electronic communications network is an important prerequisite for providing more user-oriented and efficient public administration. Together with a plan to exploit the opportunities of digitisation, the communication network forms the basis for increased value creation and better interaction between the various sectors in order to create a simpler everyday life for each individual citizen. The rapporteur has given a good presentation of the Committee's and the majority's views, and I will focus in particular on three aspects. With different competences and different needs and resources, one of the major and important issues has been how a person realises the benefits of the public sector for which digitisation is possible. In the public sector, too much has been chosen to sit on each other and not have the power to look beyond one's own activities and the opportunities it has to use joint solutions or re-use. This is often very costly and leads to a lot of testing and failure. There is therefore a strong need in this field for stronger governance and coordination, where task execution involves more than one enterprise. Local authorities have been waiting for a clearer state on how to better and more effectively identify the challenges across sectors, but not least the solutions that allow them to communicate across levels of government. Today, this is a major problem because it is too weak governance at state level. The different companies choose their own solutions without being sufficiently aware of the functioning of the solutions chosen compared to those to be communicated with. In Health-Norway, we have seen examples of how the choice of digital solutions and platforms has prevented one health region from sharing patient information electronically with the other. It is therefore necessary for the State to take a stronger approach. It is good that we have got an e-health unit to be a premiscuous provider for national ICT development in the health sector. The objective of one citizen — one journal is a solution that we believe creates more efficiency and better information flows. In other fields, KMD, as proposed, can be given responsibility for being the public sector digitisation coordinator, with diffi as the government’s trade union body. However, it should then be given a clear and strong mandate in this area, such as: can facilitate work in municipalities with a view to finding the good digital solutions that communicate with citizens as well as across levels of government. The digitisation provides opportunities for increased value creation, but also for increased differences – that's my second point. Although many in Norway have high levels of use of ICT, many still fail to participate in digital development for different reasons. It's a challenge. The universal design of ICT is based on the idea that digital services should be accessible to all, regardless of age, functionality and level of education. It is necessary to increase the competence of the growing generation in school – I think we all agree on that. But at least the same importance for not creating increased differences will also be attached to increasing skills for those in the labour market. There is no doubt that Norway has many good conditions for becoming an attractive country for setting up data centres in the years to come — that is my third point. High availability of renewable energy, stable geology, stable political governance and a competitive electricity charge are all key factors in attracting this type of activity in the next few years. The bottleneck today in order to make Norway an attractive nation for this type of activity in the future is the lack of fibre between Norway and the rest of the world, i.e. to central parts of Europe. Adequate fibre capacity is not only about the necessary capacity to carry data information, it is also about establishing a capacity that provides the necessary security at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e918	We have a situation not least in the South and West now where there is a sharp decline in jobs in oil and gas. Thousands are affected by lay-offs and lay-offs. It is therefore of great importance that we now do what we can to facilitate that industries can see the light of day. In the same way as the State is responsible for road, rail and airport infrastructure, it should be natural to impose a primary responsibility on the State also for the construction of fibre abroad. State contributions may act as an advance or as a guarantee that foreign fibres are constructed as quickly as possible. It is therefore a clear expectation from the Christian People's Party that the government quickly presents a case on how to build fibre cables abroad, and creates a strategy for setting up green data centres in Norway where the state contributes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e921	First, I would like to extend a great thank you to the rapporteur, who added a very nice review at the beginning before we began to deal with the message, with both a hearing and a seminar series that was very useful for all three themes. I thank you for that, because it was informative and nice in the processing of such a big message. So there's a revolution that's happened over a few years. I remember very well that Odd Roger Enoksen as the municipal minister talked about broadband to everyone. It's not that long ago, and there were a lot of funny comments about using the web so much more. It's not long ago. It's only 15 to 16 years ago, and today we all take it for granted. We use it more and more daily in all contexts – in work, in private – and create new jobs. There is a great value creation associated with digital solutions, but it also creates some challenges. Digitalisation of services can create simplification, more value creation and innovation. But then it's important that you have both the framework that should be around the use of it, and that you have a good digital network, so that you can use it. Otherwise, you create a larger digital class division than it has been and is today. Digital access must be important for everyone, and there are many different things that need to be put in place. One of the great grips we have to look at is the clearing of legislation. There's still a job to do. There is still a job to do in terms of privacy – it needs to be done even better than today. I don't think so many people think about how many data tracks they leave in one day, and that these data tracks can be used by others for not only fair purposes. It is important that we think well and thoroughly through how to ensure that people's privacy is properly protected. It has also become a major industry in outsourcing and storing different data. I also think it's important that we have a conscious relationship with that. Personally, I am very critical that we should use the storage capacity of other countries to store sensitive health information. I think it's important that we also see that kind of issues related to both privacy, social security and preparedness. It is vulnerable and sensitive information. If we are to get a digital all-man's rights, we still need to expand fiber and high-speed broadband around the country. There are many sites that still do not have sufficient capacity. And it's not just a district challenge, although the challenge might be bigger there. It's about connecting networks. It is a matter of ensuring that you actually have the ability to have the capacity you need for uploading, for example. reporting, as the farmers and the farming industry have called for. You need high capacity down and up to make good use of it. We in the Center Party are concerned that both business and private individuals throughout the country should be guaranteed a fully-fledged high-speed broadband. It does not fully answer the message about how to solve it. That is why we also need to take a promise to secure it in the future where the market is not willing to spend money on development. Not only does everyone use a PC, but they also use a tablet and a mobile phone. That is why we must also ensure that we have the mobile coverage built up, for example. along road and train sections. The committee traveled to Finnmark and felt that Hurtigruten did not have sufficient online capacity – it swung in and out when we used the Internet on Hurtigruten. Such things are also important. And it's really necessary to build skills across the whole chain of actions, including in the public sector. It is important to use instruments with competence in the field of school digitisation and to have training related to it. Finally, as I said, it is incredibly important to clear legislation and secure legislation. We see that technology is coming fast. We get solutions like Uber, Haxi, Airbnb, autonomous vehicle and the ‘dark network’, where we do not have enough legislation related to follow-up. We have to put that in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e944	There's a growing gap between people's technology use and the use of technology in public. It's a paradox that we're among the most technologically advanced people in the world and maybe have the most advanced older people in the world. This means that we have great opportunities to deploy new digital technologies to create better and more efficient services. By being among those who have most smartphones in the world, we're connected everywhere, all the time. We have powerful computers with eyes and ears. We create a huge amount of data that is cheaper and easier to analyze, and our little computers are getting smarter, they're learning along the way, and they're driving what's going to happen. It allows for tailoring, making available and creating public services that are always on, in the life situation that people are in. So the question is, does the government send out this gap? Do you have any of these possibilities? The simple answer to that is no. I would like to bear the claim that I believe this message could have been written four years ago. If we're going to start with the most positive: the most real, positive change I can see the government is that a warning is that the state should take greater responsibility for ICT solutions across the country, that is. that one will also coordinate the municipalities. It's positive and it's high time. But the government doesn't say anything about how to coordinate municipalities. One could have pointed out some areas of society where a job started, for example. health and education, but it will be handed over to them. The State sector, on the other hand, also needs to coordinate itself. Different government agencies still insist on different ID solutions, and the inhabitants still have to log in several times in different places in front of the public. It is time for the Storting to go through and close this state battle, and therefore proposes SV in proposal No. 1 that there should be one entry port and one entry key for public digital services. There is no new proposal; it is an old proposal we come up with here. In addition, the Storing Communication also tends to avoid difficult challenges, such as: points to the great potential of large data to create better public services at both system and individual levels. But the end of that theme is that there are major privacy challenges associated with big data, and that's how these possibilities are made dead. Why does the government not go into these questions and try to solve large-scale flocks of data and privacy? Accordingly, the SV proposes in proposal No. 2 that this assignment is given to the government. The possibilities are so great that we have to find solutions to these problems sooner or later. In addition, part of the solution may be that contained in SV's proposal No. 5, in which we ask that the principle that ‘all the public knows about a person should also know for themselves’, and that it should be implemented more closely. It will strengthen people's control over the use of own data. In addition, it surprises me that the government is no longer busy with the business interface in this matter. Public sector development can go hand in hand with building a strong Norwegian ICT industry, but then the public/private frontier has to be drawn. As it is today, there are quite different practices, depending on each in the public one. Besides, it's a challenge that the state doesn't go in beta mode, i.e. test mode. The common practice is that a giant IT project is launched where the pre-set target is total implementation. This is how ICT disasters and huge exceedances are created. Why can't we do more as in the UK, go in beta mode, where a sample of a lot of different solutions for smaller groups of users, gain experience, and move on if that's interesting? It proposes SV in proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Finally, I'm going to say that I belong to those who think digitization makes us as societies far more vulnerable than what we're actually taking in. If we take the conclusions of the Vulnerability Committee really into account, we should test our computer systems far more than we do today. SV suggests the difference in proposal No. 4 a system inspired by, for example: Google and Facebook, with responsible hacking. Finns are paid if the system fails, rather than important information ends up in the grey market and makes us more vulnerable. Finally, I'm going to decorate the committee and, in particular, the case-speaker, Toril Eidsheim. I would like to say that the setting is far better than the message, and has a lot of clarity and – I would say – concrete comments that you can go further with, and that mention more of the facts I have had here. But some of the formulations are also round and therefore less binding, so I hope that the Storting can go ahead with some of the suggestions I have made today. I bring this up with SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e972	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e977	Let me start by thanking the Committee for broad support for the government's digital agenda. We have now been given a good basis to increase the pace and effectiveness of the digitisation of Norway — and also to take action where we see challenges in the coming years. Developments — many of which have been in progress — are faster than expected by the vast majority. I went back and looked at the digital agenda that Heidi Grande Røys presented ten years ago, and there it said: «Technological developments will continue at a rapid pace, for at least 10 years until.» Today, ten years later, we are discussing artificial intelligence, robots and digital first choice. Developments also involve more extensive changes than thought a few years ago. Who would have thought that a technology platform would challenge the taxi industry or hotel industry also in Norway? We see that technological development means that we will be better able to meet some challenges. Norway is a high-cost country. We need to use new technologies to secure Norwegian jobs. We see that Norwegian companies move production home to Norway. We see that technological development means that we can create new jobs. We see that technological development is one of the tools for creating smart and more sustainable cities, one of the tools for creating better welfare services, both through welfare technology for the elderly and also through the small robot, which can make a boy or a girl who is long-term ill a participant in the classroom, at birthday parties or out in the schoolyard. We see that digital development means that we can get more user-oriented public services – faster and simpler for most people – but we also see that digital development means that digital competence and digital inclusion are becoming more important than ever. That is why we are taking measures to lift those who want to, but who need a little extra help. That is why we need to take more measures to increase digital skills in the workplace. Norway has a good starting point. In most international comparisons, Norway is among the world’s best countries. In the latest EU survey, Norway is directly behind Denmark, at the level of Sweden and the Netherlands, but, unlike our neighbouring country, Norway is now characterised as a country on the ‘running ahead’ scale. We've speeded up the process. So we can solve more of the challenges we're facing. When we have a good starting point, it's because in Norway it's a short way from the good ideas to smart decisions. We have a flat structure in our working life. It is a strength in digital development. We have a technologically competent population. We have a high level of education. We have an oil sector that has not only given us money on books, but has also given us the world's best technologists and competences, which can be used in areas other than the oil sector. We keep order in our own house and have clear principles. That doesn't mean we have any reason to rest on the laurels, because this is a global race, where we have to make sure that we're always among the best. Through the Digital Agenda, we have put in place some important principles. For me, it is important that the Digital Agenda should be a document that can be used for years to come, by the user being in the centre. The challenges to be addressed by the State are not those of users, citizens, business and non-governmental organisations. Digitisation should help us to improve the efficiency of the public sector and, as many people have experienced, to find a better distinction between what to do in the country itself and what to do in the market. Finally, we have established a much closer cooperation between the state and the municipality. Inhabitants relate, not to levels of government, but to services. That is why we are now developing digital solutions that can be used both in the country and in the municipality in terms of housing support, start-up loans, building applications, material disclosure, public electronic postal records and digital mailboxes, just to mention something. We agree with the KS and the municipal sector that libraries should be a place where citizens can get digital help on the digital platforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1009	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1015	I noticed that the Council of State, like the undersigned, was concerned with the competence of the labour market in order to take advantage of all the opportunities that lie in the digital future or in the digital administration. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: will the Council of State facilitate a reform of public sector competences in order to increase the digital competence of all employees, perhaps especially at management level, in order to make the best use of the opportunities? When, if so, can the Stortinge get an information on how such a reform will take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1020	The size is informed that I have implemented competence measures for top managers in the state. Top leaders in the state will have strategic ICT competence, and for the first time we have put in place the kind of top management competence programmes in the state. I think that is absolutely necessary, because today it does not benefit that state top managers point to the IT department, they themselves need to understand what digitisation involves by changing work processes, and understand that expenditure in one sector, but profit in another, can still be good for the whole. My point is that we also need increased skills in the private sector, because when jobs are digitised and new technologies are introduced, it is important to also increase the skills of workers, so that they are not outsourced, but can participate in the labour market through increased skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1027	Let me thank you for your answer. There is no obvious disagreement between me and the Council of State. It's okay to get it confirmed, although I could still have wished for a more clear strategy that more operationalized the objectives. I have another question to the Council of State – it has been a relatively broad process – about a concern that I have had. The Council of State was very concerned about all the possibilities of digitisation. That's good, but there are also some concerns, and they don't pay much attention to the message. One question I have asked myself is: How does it keep public information? In today's world, cloud storage is the thing, but we have little control over where the physical storage is going. I have used as an example that I am not comfortable with, for example. my health records are kept in Russia. Does the Council consider that it is important that this type of data is also physically stored in Norway, or does it not matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1036	It's an important question to address. The government has now developed its own cloud strategy with the aim of providing the public sector with a good tool and strategy for how to move forward in the use of cloud. We are also concerned with information security, both for the private and for the public sectors. I believe that the question asked needs to be assessed by the individual department and the individual department in the specific cases. But I'm familiar with that when it comes to, among other things. Health South-East, in the agreements published, demands that all data centres should be located in Norway, including all patient data storage. This is a matter on which the government is concerned, and on which the individual levels are also concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1043	Not so many days ago, there was a pretty big media look-up related to Altin and that you need a pretty big renewal of it if it's still to be appropriate. Although it is not directly the responsibility of the municipal minister, I expect the municipal minister, like many others, to be concerned that the systems we have will work well in the future as well. Then my question becomes: do we quickly enough to make the innovations of the systems that make them as good as they should be for the users?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1048	Let me just say that Altin is an important piece in our digital infrastructure. Altin is going to have a special responsibility for business, and I believe that the Brønnøsund registers and Altinn have shown a great and good ability to renew themselves and to get good solutions for business. In the 2017 budget, the Government has prioritised the project that was most important for the Altinn and Brønnøsund registers. So there's always a question if you get done fast enough. It's always a priority issue. But what we've done is at least to prioritize the work. And that doesn't stop there, we've now for the first time picked out gains in the budget, so that we can give priority to other important areas. It's about secure digital mailboxes, where we'll cut public budgets by almost 200 million until next year. kr because less postage and less paper is used. Then we can spend more money on new digitisation projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1055	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's very important that we manage to keep a focus on digitisation and its impact for business and for people. As it extends, it becomes important that we manage to expand further high-speed broadband around, because it is still so that, despite the fact that it has been heavily invested in it for many years, both holes and areas do not have enough capacity. How does the Council of State see that we are going to succeed in getting even more online, where the market is not willing to invest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1062	Now this is a matter that falls under the responsibility of the Minister for Transport. It is important that the telecommunications industry itself takes responsibility for development where it is profitable. According to the latest figures I have, Norwegian telecommunications have invested 8.6 billion. kr i upgrade of the ecosystem in 2015. But then, as the representative points out, there are also some areas where you don't have the same level of profitability, and there are subsidy schemes that can be used to realize broadband. Then I am also aware that there is a political question of how much you allocate to that grant scheme, but it helps to build more broadband where you don't have the profitability that is in more densely populated areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1067	It's true that Norway is among the best in the world using new technology, but we should be so honest to say that it's the North that's the best in the world using new technology. The fact that Norway ‘is running ahead’ is probably about the fact that there are Norwegians like ‘are running ahead’ in the use of new technology. If one were to ask the question of whether the public was "running ahead," one would probably have got a completely different answer. So I think if you're going to stick to the public sector, you have to stick to the public sector. In the case of two run ahead, the Council of State also includes artificial intelligence. And absolutely central to the function of artificial intelligence is the use of large data. That's what makes artificial intelligence today. You get a lot of data that can be translated into services. The message describes big data in a very good way, but then the whole theme ends up pointing to the privacy challenge. How has the Council of State planned to address the privacy challenge? Storing message is not listed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1076	Now it is not that you can solve the privacy problem once and for all. There is a problem that we must constantly have high on the political agenda, and I am pleased with the debate that Stortinget had a little earlier today, where we discussed the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority, and where this was a question that all the parties were concerned about. It is very much about integrated privacy in the digital solutions – and then we need to ensure good information security about the large registers. Let me just say that the representative is wrong about the EU Digital Economy and Society Index. He said it was just about the use of ICT by the Nordics. It's about digital infrastructure, it's about competence, it's about public sector, and it's about business. So the reality is that Norway is among the best in Europe and is characterised as ‘is running ahead’. This does not mean that we should rest on the laurels; that means that we must continue to digitise the public sector and also facilitate it in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1087	I'm glad that the Council of State agrees with me that the image of Norway's running ahead when it comes to the public sector is much more nuanced than that. There are only part of many conditions in the survey. I want to move over to another question, and that's beta. The public is in beta. It has also been a long history of major ICT projects, giant ICT projects, which have become a disaster, both economically and when it comes to infrastructure. This has also been criticised in the past by the Council of State and, among other things, by the Council of State. The State Secretary to the Council of State — that this must be an attempt to avoid in the future. The United Kingdom has a system called Policy Lab, where one tries to establish a form of beta testing of different solutions, so that one does not go into full scale immediately, or with goals of full scale immediately. Does the State Council think that the SV proposal is a good proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1097	I have concluded on several occasions that the time for large ICT investment is over. And it's true that the big projects have a higher risk of cracking on both time and cost. Therefore, more investment needs to be made in small and medium-sized ICT projects. That's what we've done. What we have done is that we have set up a Digitalisation Council, where we have gathered the best expertise from the private and public sectors that ensures quality for small and medium-sized ICT projects, and we have put in place a co-financing mechanism, where over 100 million have been spent in the current year. kr, but with a socio-economic gain of SEK 4.9 billion. kr – and a kr is not paid until you have approved a binding pay-as-you-go plan. So investing in small digital projects brings great benefits both economically and not least to users.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1102	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1109	Digitalization is undoubtedly the future. Future societies will depend on good digital solutions and services. If we are to have enough hands for welfare services in the future, not least in care and care, we need to solve many of today's tasks with digital solutions. Therefore, it is good that we focus on this, but if these digital solutions are to be operational, the infrastructure must be in place. We're not there today, and I think the big community needs to stand still stronger to avoid an even bigger digital division, which we're at full speed towards. When the government sent this message, the State Council of Solvik-Olsen was also present. He said the infrastructure had to take care of the market, and we didn't have to bring in disruptive aid from the state. We have seen this attitude throughout this period of government. We have seen a government that has unilaterally pointed to the market, but that is not enough. Today we have several counties where the coverage is unfortunately far behind. I think it's a social responsibility to give everyone the same access to digital society. The market does not expand broadband where it is not profitable. That is why the state must be involved and take greater responsibility. We see, as I said, a significant digital distinction in and outside densely built strips. According to figures from the Ministry of Transport, 96 pst. of households in built-in struts offering high-speed broadband or fibre broadband, while only 37 pst. the same offer is made by households outside densely built districts. This creates a distinction — both between city and country and, in fact, also on the outskirts of large cities. This cannot be accepted. This must be taken seriously by the government in order not to create a further increase in digital division. Business, schools and people in the districts need high-speed broadband to be able to participate in the digital shift. I am calling on the government to take action to secure the entire country broadband. The government cuts back into the pot for broadband subsidies in its budget for 2017 and proposes only 93.7 million. kr. This has been throughout this government period. In 2015, they proposed only 50 million. SEK, and in 2016 they proposed, with a price adjustment, SEK 51,5 million. kr. The Labour Party has actually proposed 500 million in its budget over the same three years. $300 million for this. kr more than the government. Luckily, settlements at Stortinget have raised this grant item. And then we'll see if they do when we might once get a budget for 2017 in port.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1122	This is an important debate because it discusses how the state can become a better user of and facilitate digital communication with its citizens. It gives more power and influence to the inhabitants when they have access to information. And it's a message that's important because it's discussing how to develop the infrastructure for this. So it discusses both the user aspect and the underlying aspect. I think that's important. I think it's important because we're going to avoid it as part of the left-hand side of this room gives the impression that we're getting a digital class distinction. That is why we have submitted a message, precisely to ensure that everyone has access – both to understand how they can use digital technology, and that they actually have access via broadband, fibre, 4G coverage on mobile, etc. This is actually a message to counteract what is being criticized here. I think it's a little strange that you add up to that kind of debate. When we in the Ministry of Transport sit and look at the transport sector in the future, digitisation is an important part. That's why we're emphasising that we're building infrastructure across the country. It is not right, as the representative Juvik suggests, that today's government points to the market and only the market. The form of black paint and unsound debate really only creates uncertainty in large parts of the country, and that is not what we want. We want to make sure that business dares to invest everywhere in the country because they know that they have a government that is committed to facilitating infrastructure across the country. And that happens. But it is true that both today's government and previous government have said that market players are the main driver of investment. It was actually the policy of the red-green government. That suddenly it becomes a shell word, testifies to the memory of the one who's making it. Instead of discussing 50 million. DKK or 100 million. From or to the state budget, it is important to see how we can facilitate the overall levels of investment. There is no doubt that total investment has increased sharply during today's government. One is that the market invests $1.6 billion. kr. That's $1.7 billion. kr — more than in 2013. I'd rather have a situation where one has 1.7 billion. kr more overall because the market will invest more because of good framework conditions than the market will keep its investments low and wait for the State to make 50 million. DKK or 100 million. kr more in subsidies. The overall result is much better if you get the market and the authorities to play on the team. And it's a lot of what we've been working on, making sure that the market will invest more because they see that it's possible to make money on it. The state is a good and eager buyer in this. So the government is investing 16.6 billion. ICT purchases every year, and the state is a major driving force – far beyond the 50 million. kr as the Working Party mentions. [[The President clubs.]] Time's up. Yes, there was much more to mention, but now I've taken a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1143	That's it. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1161	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1171	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this postal communication. The large exposure shows that it is important for the Storting to be given the opportunity to have a notification of ownership from the Item Norway for treatment. This message was submitted late in the spring session to get it properly processed before the holiday. As rapporteur, I have a great deal of understanding that the Post Norway would like to have the political clarifications earlier. But here the government has to take the main responsibility that they took so long to present this to the Stortinget that it was not possible to have it treated before the summer. The Communication describes the changes and adaptations that the Ministry of Transport will make in the provision of universal postal services. The Communication also describes the development of the main activities of the Post during the period from the previous ownership notification to the Stortinget until today – 2012–2015. These include the economic development of the group, the follow-up to main strategies and the work on social responsibility. I would also like to highlight in particular that the Post assumes responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, both through the development and use of green transport solutions and through the Group's environmental policy. The entry currently has more than 1100 electric vehicles and 450 vehicles using biogas and biodiesel. The item has carried out extensive streamlining actions in both the postal and logistics segments over several years and has implemented a re-conversion of the dispatch network. The post has adapted to developments in society and has undergone extensive and successful transformations from the millennium onward. One of the success factors for having succeeded in this conversion is that they have been given good time to the conversion. It is therefore essential that they are also given good time in the extensive transition they are about to undergo. A Joint Committee is committed to the achievement of its social mission by ensuring a nationwide distribution of postal items at a reasonable price and at good quality for people and businesses throughout the country. Now, when the Post proposes to cut from two mail streams to one, it is a result of the introduction of the Third Postal Directive, which actually meant free competition in mail. However, there have also been major changes in the postal market due to changes in the pattern of use and shifts from physical mail to electronic communications. The fall in the volume of letters is significant, with a halve from the year 2000 to the present day. In the last four years, the volume has fallen by 25 p.m., and in the years to come, the decline is expected to continue. The Committee also points out that when the Stortinget passed new law on postal services in June 2015, delivery rates were reduced from six to five days a week. The main challenge with this reduced frequency was to find an acceptable solution for aviance on Saturdays. The government has not managed to get in place, and after this change, there are today more than 40,000 who do not get their Saturday paper. An overall committee expects a solution that ensures paper newspapers on Saturdays throughout the country. The main change in this message is to combine the A and B mail flows into one single stream, with a requirement of two days’ transmission time of at least 85 pst. of the consignments. But before this is done, a joint committee demands that the Stortinget ask the government to find good alternative solutions for the transmission of biological preparations, medicines, newspapers and pre-selections. The Ministry also proposes to wind up the articles of association on target use. This is opposed by a majority of the Committee. Furthermore, it is proposed to provide for certain derogations from the frequency of transmission requirements when the volume of correspondence falls further. The Postal Act allows for exemptions from the universal service obligation of five days a week. The Ministry interprets this to be valid for up to 10 pst. by the population and that it can happen without legislative changes, even if this action is not now open. This could affect up to 230,000 households, nor is it in line with the EU directive. The majority of the Committee considers this to be a far too far-reaching interpretation of the law and has proposed that the government should promote its own case for the Storting if it is assessed less than five delivery days. The Ministry also proposes to liquidate the Post's disclosure obligation for the Storting and, as a consequence, ownership reports of the Post's operations. This means, in effect, that the decision is moved to the Board of Directors of the Post and then only with a limited power of ownership via the State Council. The minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, disagree and believe that the Post is a strategically important area that includes central infrastructure. The major changes taking place in this area show that it is important that the Storting be involved through an ownership message. I address the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1192	The representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1197	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the case rapporteur and the other parties for a good and tidy treatment of the Storing Message. The amount of letters sent by Post has been more than halved since 2000, and the development is faster than initially assumed. In recent years the volume has been reduced by 25 pst. It is a consequence of a desired digitisation, a development that we see in many parts of society, and that provides us with ever better and more up-to-date services. Where we had to wait until the next day to get news, we can now get it right away. We do not have to go to the store to order goods, but we can use the Internet and get them sent – by Posten or other actors. We almost don't send letters in paper form anymore, but we use e-mail and digital mailboxes. This is just the beginning of a development that will go faster and faster. It is in this perspective that we need to see developments in the postal market and the proposed changes in order to adapt the postal sector to a new future. New postal law was dealt with in Stortinget in 2015. This meant that the entire postal market, including a letter under 50 grams, was opened up to competition. At the same time, the number of days of carriage was reduced from six to five, by the termination of the Saturday post. In this respect, the Stortinget was clear that the Saturday paper distribution had to be continued and that a system had to be established in the areas where the Posten was the sole distributor. It has been followed up by the Ministry and an agreement has been reached with the company Kvikkas for the distribution of Saturday newspapers in these areas. I record that there have been entry problems, which is regrettable, but I also register a great deal of willingness to solve problems, and that the security of delivery has improved significantly during the first Saturdays. In Report. St. 31 for 2015–2016 The postal sector as a whole proposes several measures to meet the development of increased digitisation and falling letter volumes, first a transition from A and B items to one mail stream. A single stream of letters will require normal forwarding time of two days for 85 pst. of the consignments. This change will result in cost savings of more than 200 million. kr. The entry has so far not been compensated for maintaining two letter flows, and it is not budgeted for in the 2017 government budget. In a market where there is competition and where people send fewer and fewer letters, it is unreasonable to oblige the Post to maintain two mail flows. Nor is it desirable to cover the additional costs of maintaining such a distribution. It is money that can be better spent on other areas of society. The conversion also means that customers sending biological material or drugs need to find other distribution solutions for time-critical shipments. It is already happening to some extent today and was updated on the termination of the Saturday post. We support the proposal that the Ministry should contribute to finding alternative solutions for both biological material, medicines, pre-voting and newspapers. The country postal service is important for many who live and work in the districts and is to be continued. Harmonisation of practices is envisaged, so that postal operators who live more than 4 km from the nearest point of dispatch are offered a country postal service. It may be appropriate to exempt some areas from the five-day rule if the drop in the volume of letters continues at the current rate or is reinforced. The Council of State has confirmed that there are no such plans at present, but if the volume of letters continues to fall at the same rate, this may be the case. No changes will be made without the Storting being involved. A natural consequence of changes in the postal market will be to treat the Post as other market actors and to pursue sectoral policy objectives differently from those of a notification of ownership. It is more natural that the Stortinget will be briefed on the development of the postal sector through its own key messages. For the same reason, it is also not natural to continue to have a separate paragraph in the Statute on Target Form. The post will continue to make stamps and other symbol products on both objectives, and we are clear that the Post as a large and responsible company should use the form of objectives that is natural in the areas in which they operate. The changes we are making now by closing off the Saturday post and going from A and B mail to one letter type, provide savings of nearly half a billion dollars. These are cost savings for society that will benefit in other key areas. The post has shown great ability to adapt for many years. In the last 15 years, the company has adapted to digitisation in society and has had to reduce staffing significantly, simply because people stopped sending letters. When we are dealing with this big message today, I will end by giving the Post and the employees the honor of having carried out a demanding and difficult conversion in a tidy way. This is a company that is well equipped to meet a new future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1225	The postal sector has undergone major changes in recent years, in a society where more and more of our communication takes place digitally. The development of the ever-increasing amount of correspondence, which has been noticed by many, is about adapting the postal code to a new era, which we see as absolutely necessary. A halving of addressed correspondence over the last 15 years has led to a necessary change in mail distribution, from six to five days a week. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this is a completely necessary conversion in order to avoid the increase in public purchases of unprofitable postal services in the years ahead. A further decrease in post-volume is also expected in the next few years. The rapporteur has presented important aspects of the changes to which the communication relates, and I would therefore just like to focus on some aspects of which the Christian People's Party is particularly concerned. The Christian People's Party supports the conversion from two to one poststream, and the justification is obvious: the reduced volumes, as the government has explained in the message. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the change in mail delivery should not go beyond the important principle of an equivalent postal offer for all, no matter where you live in the country. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the population and economic operators in district municipalities should come out as well as actors in the more central regions. The activities of the post are strategically important and part of the central infrastructure of society. The major changes that are taking place in this area in the future are therefore, in our view, of such importance that the Storting should be informed by means of a separate announcement of ownership when new changes are to be implemented. For the Christian People's Party, the conversion from six to five days means that newspapers produced on Saturdays are still to be delivered as fresh goods on Saturdays. Therefore, it was essential that the Stortinget should consider establishing a system that meant the permanent distribution of paper newspapers throughout the country on Saturdays, when the Postal Act was passed a year and a half ago. A large part of the newspaper volume is now distributed by others other than the Post Norway, but in the areas of the country where this has happened through the Post Norway, solutions were to be made where the newspapers were distributed to subscribers on Saturdays. This is about schemes that help to maintain important opinion-makers in our society, locally and nationally. The paper newspapers are very strong in Norway. 51 pst. of the Norwegian population over 12 years of age read paper newspapers on a daily basis. This is why it is also central to the provision of services and contributes to important public information. In addition, paper paper paper stands for about 80 pst. the revenues of the media houses in Norway, and these revenues are also absolutely necessary to finance the digital products. Saturday transport shall also apply where the necessary distribution of medicinal products, biological preparations and pre-selection votes is necessary. Conversion of the Saturday newspaper coverage has not worked until now for too many newspaper subscribers, which has also caused great frustration for the newspaper houses. Newspapers have been off Saturday after Saturday. The premise of big business has not been fulfilled, and the Christian People's Party expects the Council of State to be as impatient as we are and to take the necessary steps to sort it out. This is not acceptable. In its interpretation of the Postal Act, the Ministry has made it possible to derogate from the universal service obligation of five days a week for up to 10 pst. of the population, and that this can happen without changes in the law. This, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is clearly too far-reaching a derogation since it can affect up to half a million people. Such a change must be anchored in the Storting in a better way than has been proposed in the notification. The implementation of such a comprehensive derogation violates the principle of an equivalent postal offer in our country. The notification provides for the winding-up of the articles of association on target use. The post, which is 100 pst. owned by the Norwegian State, in the view of the Christian People's Party, has a special responsibility for fending over and taking care of both the target forms – bookkeeping and nynorsk. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is pleased that a majority in the Committee emphasises that today's Statute on Target Use will continue to apply to the Post. Finally, it is of major importance that sufficient time be given to the Item for the conversion and implementation of the changes. Therefore, the Christian People's Party assumes that the Post gives the time they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1246	For the Central Party, it's important that we have equivalent offers across the country, even though society is changing. In the previous case, we discussed the Digital Agenda and how important it is that everyone has the opportunity to use the digital solutions – and there are still people who do not have that access. Then the Post is important in many ways, because people want to use the Post both to send things and to receive things, and you don't want to get their Saturday paper -- we've seen that in the last few days, considering how people react when they don't get it. I thank the case rapporteur for a thorough work in the committee and a fine presentation in the Chamber, so I intend to limit myself to commenting on just a few issues. The first thing I want to comment on is what's going on about biological material, rickshaws and prior voices. It is very important that you find a good solution to this before you combine the A and B items. If we see the situation that has been created in view of the Saturday paper now, and we think that that situation arises when you combine the letter flows, we're doing something very wrong. Biological material is e.g. blood samples taken by people at their establishment who are to be sent to a laboratory elsewhere. If you can't use the Post, you have to have a different system in place. It is referred to that solutions have been found elsewhere, for example. in the East. Yes, that's partly true, but they have great challenges in being able to deliver on time, because such a test has a limited life span. The same applies to veterinary services, where it is also time-critical for timely delivery. Riksaviers are important to people. It is important to have access to the different types of opinion providers that exist. In the case of pre-selections, it is important to have good and safe solutions in place before the next elections. It's not long. We are concerned that there is a requirement that good solutions are in place before the two letter streams merge. It is also not acceptable – in our view – that up to 500,000 can receive mail less than five days. Then you no longer have an equivalent offer. It is still important to have well-developed dispatches, that they are close to where people are, and that you have a country postal service, which people are busy with. It's not everyone who's the same mobile, it's not everyone who commutes and can pick up their post in some mailbox far away from home. Therefore, we need to ensure that the country postal service is still good and correct. I am pleased that the Committee has managed to gather on some of the proposals that have been promoted in the case. I'm glad that there's a majority to secure the new snort in the future. That's important to many, and we've done it. But I am more disappointed that one could not agree that one should have a message of ownership, because when we look at the circumstances raised in the matter, and when we look at the situation created by the fact that the Saturday post is still not in place, it clearly shows that the Storting should be involved in such processes of change. I find that regrettable, as I have said. The rapporteur has taken up proposal No. 1 in the case. I'm just repeating that there are multiple games behind this. In addition, I have today tabled a proposal No. 3, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all are delivered on Saturday newspapers in line with Storting’s intentions as soon as possible.’ It's precisely because people are busy getting their paper in the mailbox on Saturdays, and because the first few weeks have not been reassuring, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1275	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1280	This Communication is a consequence of two different developments. One development is digitisation. There's something we can applaud, because digitization makes there less need for postal services because people choose to do what makes the mail come out, not overnight, but during the time it takes to pinch the Storting's pulpit, namely by e-mail. That's good, and it allows society to take advantage of the productivity growth that lies in digitisation and save money in a good way. We're for that, and there's no doubt that it's one of the things that's driving the big decline in the letter mail that's now happening. The second development is that we have seen over a number of years, where the right-hand side – and partly the Workers' Party – has driven through regulations that have introduced open competition an increasing proportion of what the Post has driven, through the abolition of the post-monopoly. Bit by bit, following EU directives and loyal follow-up to EU directives, it has been opened for packages, major letters and now, after a period of minor letters, no longer to be distributed only by the Post, but to be distributed by all and put out for free competition. It's a development we've been against, because the development we're seeing is exactly what we've argued against and warned against in the whole process. My old parliamentary leader, Inge Ryan from Nord-Trøndelag, used to say the following, and I always thought it sounded so beautiful: the post should not go with profits, the post should go with the post. I thought I was right. Because what happens when you open up free competition in all the postal services, and privatize the postal services, is that you remove the postal services as general services, where all the people around the country have had equal opportunities, equal costs and equal prices. The rationale is very simple. While it has been the case in the past that we who live here in Oslo – I represent Oslo, but have been proud and proud of the scheme we have had – have paid more for postal services than the price that the market has set, in return people in the districts have paid less than they had to if there had been free competition in the area. As competition is opened up in this area, the development of different prices for postal services across the country is also seen, and that is the development we will see at the moment that the last pieces of the post-monopoly are being removed. Then we end up in the situation that we had the first time the Council of State put forward its new postal policy, with a discussion about the state having to pay for the unprofitable services. Now the state says no, we don't have a tradition to do that. No, of course we haven't had a tradition to do that, and that's because we've had cross-subsidisation within the Post office that has ensured that it hasn't been necessary for the state to do this over the state budget. So now we've ended up in that situation, and then we're there today. But don't come here and say that this has not been a wild policy from the right! What we've done is privatize the profit where it's been possible, and then there's been higher expenditure on what's been general services. From the SV side – we are not known in this committee – we support the setting, as it now exists. We also support the proposals, as promoted by the Central Party, by a group of parties and by the Left. I would like to underline two things that have been up in the debate. One relates to the Saturday news assignment discussion. You have to have pretty short memory to not remember that the entire opposition warned the Council of State against the exact situation we're up in right now. I see that the Council of State owes to the people to whom he has tendered the offer, but it was the Council of State that ran through the policy that ensured that we have now received a poorer offer for the Saturday distribution of newspapers. Then he should take responsibility instead of pointing at the others and saying that it is not his fault, it is the fault of the others. The second is that it is necessary to ensure sufficient time for conversion to ensure that, through its ownership of the Post, the State treats the employees properly and gives them sufficient time for the conversion of the manning to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1295	Ensuring good communication in society is important. The entry has played and plays an important role in this way. Being able to write letters to each other, keeping in touch with new and old friends, ensuring that contracts between business operators and residents come forward, ensuring that communication between the public and private sides of society works – all of which has been an important part of the role of the Post. Making sure that physical things can be sent from city to country, country to city — it has also been the important role of the Post Office. There's nothing in what we're proposing that will change that. The item will be national. We have to make sure that we have one common postage across the country that ensures the equality of treatment that a person wants. At the same time, one over many years have seen a development in which the volumes of letters go down, naturally, because people have got other alternatives. One has received digital solutions that for many are even faster and much cheaper than one communicated before. It helps society to function even better than it has done in the past. Then it has been natural for the Post to look at this development, that the letter volumes go down, but the package volumes go up, so that one has to rig the company differently. So it's not like this is the first government that's seen this change. Here the Post itself has said that changes should be in place. The changes that have come into place make the Post a more robust company for the future. I think we should pay tribute to the Post's management and the Post's employees and trade unions, who have made sure that the Post has undergone continuous changes not only in the last year, but in 15-20 years, yes, more than that, without major conflicts. One has found good solutions for all those who work there, and has made sure that it happens in the best and most flexible way possible when the market around it changes. When you talk about the current situation, someone in the opposition gets the impression that there's been a lifting of the post-monopoly that makes the volumes go down, and then it's almost a depression when one says that the e-mail has also had a meaning. No, it's not like people have started sending 20 grams of letters with other providers. That's how people started sending those letters digitally. It seemed one in the previous debate was very positive, and then this debate is actually a consequence of what a synthesis was positive. Then it's about making sure that the Post becomes as robust a company as possible, and that we are able to ensure that the needs of society when a physical object is to be sent are cared for in the most efficient way possible. We will therefore ensure, in line with what the Committee also wants, that a sectoral communication is presented at regular intervals to discuss the postal sector as a whole. We will ensure that the despatch network that the Post has, when it is to be changed, is changed together with local authorities to take care of the local population. But here too there has been a change over a long time. Even before this government joined, most post offices had disappeared and been replaced by Post in Store. It's about the fact that someone has actually made a better offer to the residents, not a worse offer. We will ensure that the conversion processes that take place take place in cooperation with those affected. We continue to ensure target use by having a new Norwegian, which is continued in line with the Statutes. So newspaper distribution on Saturdays has been brought up for debate. We had that debate when it was adopted, naturally enough. We then promised that one would make sure that there was a Saturday distribution of newspapers in those areas where the industry itself did not already have a bid. We have taken care of that in the tender that went out. It hasn't worked very well in a lot of places, but we've seen a big improvement in the course of now four Saturdays. There you had a success rate of almost 80 pst. on the first Saturday, there is now a hit rate of 97 pst. in the averages of the newspapers in which Kvikkas is distributed. We know that in some areas it is still unclear between the newspaper and Kvikkas who should actually have the area. I think that's unfortunate, because we just had hearings on this, in 2015, to know from the newspapers where they themselves are responsible, and where they need help. We obviously didn't get enough answers, and that's some of what we have to solve. We have to make sure that access to mailboxes works everywhere. We're not in the goal even though I'm satisfied, but we've seen a significant improvement over the past Saturdays. So when the Storting debated this further, I think we should consider what the situation is today, not just what it was like on the first Saturday.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1316	As we hear and see in the communication, a number of proposals are being implemented, but there is one proposal that does not seem to be a majority, and there is still an announcement of ownership of the Post Norway. The introduction of a sector message by post is black, but in reality it means shifting the decision and influence of ownership from this room to the State Council and the Board of Directors in the Post, without any clear possibility of ownership from this room. The minority in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, as I said, disagree with this, and it is important that the Post as an activity is discussed in this Chamber. I believe that this message shows the importance of that. As I said, it doesn't seem to be like that, and then my question to the Council of State is: what would be problematic about continuing the requirement of the restitution obligation for the Post, and in what way will the State in the future exercise its ownership when taking away the ownership notice?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1325	It is important that, as a society, we ensure that we have a good infrastructure that works, both in terms of the physical infrastructure and the distribution infrastructure that we are talking about here. That's why it's important to have a sectorial message that takes into account all the actors that exist, all the needs of society, and not least it looks up to the digitisation that takes place in society – the kind of changes we see in people's trade structures, where fewer go to the store and more buy things online. We also see an ever-increasing amount of people buying colonial goods online and getting them delivered home. That means that we have a completely different society today and in a short time, than what we've had in the past. Therefore, it is natural for one to look at the sector notification. The State already has different bodies in which one informs the Storting about ownership of different enterprises, as a complete notification. I think it's natural that someone still wants the Post inside, and that Stortinget gets the chance to say their opinion about ownership through that message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1332	In the case of the Saturday newspaper, the Council of State has carried out a very poor craft. That is why we are concerned about the newspapers in the transition to one flow of letters, which will make it more difficult to obtain nationally submitted newspapers to other parts of the country on the day of publication and which will create problems for local and regionally submitted newspapers. Today there are nine regional terminals and it is proposed to be changed to three. It can make the delivery of newspapers more expensive and slower. It is important that changes in the delivery structure do not lead to newspaper deaths. Will the Council of State ensure that the newspapers will be able to obtain regional postage even after the conversion and will it guarantee that solutions are in place to ensure that the newspapers actually reach everyone on the date of publication?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1339	The government believes it is important that the newspapers are distributed. That's why we're using 100 million. kr only in 2017 to help with the Saturday news release of newspapers. Newspaper distribution is initially the responsibility of the newspapers, and it is a responsibility they have taken every year. But we've said that in the context of the changes that are now happening with the Post, the state is going in and buying services for 100 million. kr to ensure that there are no holes in the system. And as I've said many times, it obviously hasn't worked well enough in the first few weeks, but we see a significant improvement from week to week. It is already the case that the Post office cannot guarantee newspaper distribution today on the day of publication. It also appeared during the 2015 hearing, where the Post said that many of the Saturday papers they receive for distribution are delivered on Mondays. I do not want to give a stronger guarantee than the Postman has already been able to deliver, but I expect us to be able to find solutions that are in line with what one had before. Then we actually have to make sure that the state and the newspaper industry work together to find those solutions, and the newspaper industry has to get moving faster than they did this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1346	In the turn-over from six to five days of mail delivery, exceptions were made for Saturday newspapers and biological preparations, many of which have already been in use today. The Saturday delivery was put to tender, and Mr. Kvikkas was invited to tender. The Council of State writes in its answer to questions from the undersigned dated 14 November 2016 that there have been problems with the quality of delivery during the first two Saturdays and that he will closely monitor further developments. Is the Council of State now, after the third Saturday in November, satisfied? If not – what will he do to make this service work in line with the Storing assumptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1351	We're buying services for 100 million. kr for the Saturday newspaper assignment. I expect them to be delivered in line with the agreement. According to the contract signed, the newspapers must be distributed by 1 p.m. 17 Saturday. It's in point 5. In point 7, there are some criteria for how Kvikkas and the industry will deal with this. The first Saturday was not good. As regards the last Saturday, according to the reports from Kvikkas, it was a delivery percentage of 97. It is still not good enough, and it is lower than the papers themselves, but we see that in North Norway there is a delivery rate of up to 100. That's where we're going to be. So we know that for some areas there is still disagreement between the newspapers and Kvikkas about who is really responsible. I think that's a pity, because I thought we had got good information from the newspapers about what they had as areas, but it's obvious that there's still a job to do. We're going to have a meeting with the media companies and Kvikkas, hopefully we'll get it done in a week, a joint meeting to sort out any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1358	What I think is the most important thing we need to ensure in the future to create equivalent offers, are the biological tests, which are in a very time-critical phase in reaching the laboratory in time. It seems that it has already been concluded that the Item cannot be used regardless of whether special arrangements relating to the Item are provided for. It was a theme Fürst was very busy when I met them – that you should also look at that opportunity. If it has been concluded that a tender is to be made for this scheme, will the Council of State ensure that the criteria are such that there is no room for slack, that he can guarantee that people will get samples to the laboratories in one day, which is time-critical given that the sample will be healthy enough to be analysed when it arrives?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1365	Bilological tests are especially important, because they lose their value completely if they don't show up in time. We have discussed this very much with the Minister of Health, just to ensure that we find good solutions. Having this need is not an argument for maintaining the Post's overall system at a cost to society of 400 million. kr if one can buy bidding services, package jets, etc. instead. to some $10 million. Of course, that work has to be done before all these changes come into effect, but I have full confidence that the health sector will be able to do that job. There are many possibilities today to send packages and letters both faster and slower than with the Post Office's normal services. It's about having bidding services, which usually cost a little bit more because they take the fastest way between two points rather than going through distribution centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1370	I have two questions. One is for the state council's posts, exactly, where he said he would guarantee equal postage across the country. When there is full competition for letters, what kind of regulations does the Council of State intend to have to ensure that it is equal to postage across the country for businesses and for others? The second question is about the transition. The state is big, the Post is a big player, and it's a goal to be a serious employer. What does the Council of State do to ensure that those who now lose their jobs due to changes in the postal delivery offer do not only receive Nav offers, which are the least available, but are given sufficient time and resources for re-training or re-schooling to move forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1377	When it comes to the discussion of common postage, we've given a very clear message about it before, so it's a little weird that there's going to be a theme again. It will cost the same thing to send a letter with the mail either a sender it from Lindesnes to Alta, or a sender it from Oslo west to Oslo east. Then you actually have common postage across the country. It costs no more to send a letter long by post than it costs to send it a card. As regards the conversion that happens in the Post, there is something the Post has a lot of experience with. When the former director of the board was thanked a few weeks ago, the head of the Post Office highlighted the good dialogue that had taken place. Although they could disagree on some of the decisions that were taken, when it came to implementation, they cooperated precisely to care for the employees. I expect that culture to continue, both with those who are there today, and with those who will once lead the Post in the future – precisely because one has to take care of the employees in all such processes, in order to make it as smooth and as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1386	During the hearing of this notification, it was found from both Post Norway and Postkommen that the State purchase amount was more than 300 million. kr below the need for 2017, and concerns were expressed that this would lead to a rapid conversion process. In this connection, a question was also sent to the Ministry of Transport on 18 October, asking about it. Then the state councils answered: ‘Member States have never previously used State purchases to compensate for two flows of letters or recommended broadcasts from abroad, nor has the government committed to compensate for this in the government budget for the next year.’ It will be demanding, as I said, both to take this amount of over 300 million. kr and at the same time carry out a large-scale conversion where it has been planned to use large parts of 2017, at least if you base it on what both Posten, Postkom and Stortinget have done today. My question is: Will the financial challenges in 2017 affect the transition period, or is the Council of State prepared to give the Post the envisaged time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1399	We're going to make sure that the Post has time to carry out in a proper way the change they need to make. With regard to the economic situation, it is also something that we follow from year to year and have a round before the budget is presented, but also when looking at the revised budget. If there'll be a need to look at the economic situation differently, we'll get back to it. It has been important for us to have a good dialogue with the Post Office, and I think we have. We have had a good dialogue through ownership management meetings, etc. We see that the Post has been good both to change and to take on social responsibility. The representative Juvik himself mentioned in his post that the Post had gone ahead in terms of the use of environmentally friendly cars. At the same time Posten knows the market. They see that when the letter volumes go down as hard as they do, they have to think differently about the way they operate. So they're a good actor to whom we listen carefully before we pursue our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1408	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1416	I notice that the Council of State is very vague in its response to my reply, whether one can guarantee that there is a solution for the distribution of newspapers that ensures that the newspapers come out on the actual day of publication. It clearly shows us that it is very important for us today to have a decision that obliges the Council of State to ensure that such solutions exist before bringing together a single mail stream. The size was also very concerned with the situation of the newspapers when the case of Saturday newspapers was dealt with the previous time one had a round about the postal law. But despite the fact that the Storting expressed a clear expectation of ensuring the Saturday delivery of the newspapers, and despite the fact that the Council of State has had a very good time, many now experience major problems. It testifies to a government council that has not done its job to fulfill Storting's will. Another problem is that there are too poor systems to report deviations and ensure improvements. I hear the Council of State is now saying that we have seen a strong improvement over the past few weeks. You might wonder if that's right. We hear now, several weeks after the conversion, that there is still a big difference between how this is happening out there, what Kvikkas himself reports to the department, and what the newspapers report. An example is the report by Kvikkas for Finnmark to the Ministry on 25 November, where it is reported that the newspapers arrived within the deadline and that the newspapers received have been distributed. Amedia customer centre's report from the same date describes this: Finland reports major problems in East Finland, repeated complaints are not resolved either. The Hallingdølen newspaper characterises the situation of its subscribers as ‘catastrophe’, and in my own hometown, Ytterøy in the Nord-Trøndelag, has, for example, My own grandmother hasn't seen anything for the Saturday paper yet. While the second one got the paper for the first time on Saturday a little over a week ago, they now saw the last Saturday that the paper was missing again. In Flatanger, subscribers who have a mailbox don't get their newspapers until Monday. This testifies to a government council which has neither ensured the quality of tenders nor a good enough reporting and the subscribers and newspapers are injured. We hear that many hundreds of subscriptions are cancelled in just one week. That is why we are so concerned that, before making further changes, good arrangements must be in place to ensure distribution on the day of its publication, and that is what the Council of State must guarantee. If we're not afraid that what we see with the Saturday papers is just the overture of what's going to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1429	The postal sector is changing considerably because of our consumer habits, where postal services as digital mail solutions have largely taken over mail and where online commerce has increased the volume of parcel shipments both nationally and internationally. The left therefore sees the need to modernise the Post and to support the transition from two mail streams to one. At the same time, we are concerned about the consequences this may have for the distribution of biological material and newspapers. We have therefore supported the proposals that the government should find alternative solutions for the transmission of biological preparations, medicines, newspapers and pre-selections before a single flow of letters is launched. At the same time, we see that there have been problems with the transmission of newspapers on Saturdays after the decision to wind up the Saturday distribution of postal services came into force. That is why we are today promoting a proposal to investigate the impact of the changes in the mail flow on newspaper distribution. The Left is committed to the Post following its societal mission and ensuring a cross-border delivery of postal services. We believe that the Ministry and the Council of State interpret the postal law in a far-reaching way when they state that an exemption from the universal service obligation can be made in five days a week, for up to 10 pst. by the population. For the left, it is totally unacceptable to allow 500,000 people not to have the same postal rights as the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1438	Then the representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the proposal from the Left to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1443	We're approaching Christmas and Christmas celebration. Even I am most pleased to see the face of the two-year-old when she opens the packages that she has been sent from afar and near. ‘The entry shall appear’, ‘We live to deliver’ and ‘Oss people between’ are slogans that have really had meaning in practice in people’s lives for generations — whether they are America’s letters, Christmas gifts or medicines. The Post Office was established in 1647 and became the responsibility of the State in 1719. Since then, the Post has been part of all the important infrastructures in our country. The post came with the establishment of the first route, the post was with the establishment of Hurtigruten in North Norway, and the post was with the opening of Norway's first official air route. For 350 years, the Post has been one of the carriers to make our society go around, to bind the country together – built and built, Norway and the world. But in the last 20 years, the environment has changed. We send far more e-mails than A- and B-mails: tough conversions, loyal and competent employees in a demanding time. For this reason, the Workers' Party also supports several of the proposals in the Storing Communication. Nevertheless, the Post will play a societal role in the future. Several societal critical functions will continue to require rapid delivery, such as medicines, biological preparations and pre-selection. That is why the Workers' Party is also concerned with the state ownership of the Post, because we believe it is important to ensure public ownership of important infrastructure. That is why we say no to the government's proposal to exempt the universal service obligation of five days a week for up to 10 pst. by the population. Such a change must be anchored in Stortinget. The Labour Party also refuses to remove the Storting option to process future ownership messages for the Post. Both proposals by the government testify to a lack of willingness to exercise an active public ownership of the Post, if at all they want a public ownership. The proposal for a Party Programme of the Progress Party states that the Progress Party will reduce state ownership and that it is an objective of its economic policy ‘to reduce public ownership in companies engaged in direct competition with private operators’. To liquidate state ownership and sell the Norwegian community's resources and interests to private hands, I strongly disagree. This also applies to the Item. The Labour Party will support proposal No. Three, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1464	The Post continues to solve important logistical needs for critical functions in society, even if the amount of ordinary letters drops sharply. Our common health service is such a critical function for most people. Lawyers who contact us who are health policymakers say that the lack of mail delivery on Saturdays has already led to their failure to take blood tests or other biological tests after 8 p.m. 13 on Thursdays. For a number of policymakers, further cuts are the worst scenario, i.e. shipments take two days and not one. This – combined with no mail delivery on Saturdays already – means for this firm that they can’t take blood tests or other biological tests after 8 p.m. 13 Wednesdays! In practice, the effectiveness of our medical office is halved, they tell us. In addition, patients have to face up twice, for the first time for consultation and for the second time for sampling, resulting in increased costs for patients in the form of self-esteem, increased costs for society because they have to face up to them twice — with absences, transport costs and everything that it brings with them. This may lead to delays in diagnosis of serious conditions, and in the worst case, if the patient is unable to respond once more, this may lead to important diagnostics not being made. Personally, I think it's hair-tracing that important structures for society's most critical logistics are to be removed because profitability goes down. It's like removing the bath guard in a swimming pool because he has nothing to do with most of the time – and this from a government council that says he'll make life easier for most people. This is not primarily a challenge for some sprawl of fixed agencies in the districts, as the Council of State makes it. Laboratory medical clinic at St. Olavs Hospital in Trondheim and several other major clinics have reported their concerns, for these clinics receive a significant number of patient tests. The average per week in December last year was 585 tests for St. Olav's Hospital only. So the health services in the city and in the country call out a warning, but the government doesn't listen. Fortunately, there is another majority in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1475	The postal sector is changing. We send fewer letters, and they have some consequences. Nevertheless, the Post still has a key role to play in this society. «The post is coming», called an old slogan, and the post was going to all places in this country, no matter where we had chosen to settle — a clear social mission. The working party is involved in assessing the necessary changes, but there are some premises, and I would like to give an example. When the majority of Stortings adopted on 15 June 2015 a new law on postal services, which reduced the delivery frequency from six to five days a week, it was a clear premise that the government was to find a solution for the circulation of Saturday newspapers. It has tried to solve the problem of giving the assignment to a private company. It's been a bad time. For the fourth Saturday in a row, there are still many of us in Telemark who miss our Saturday newspapers, the ones we've subscribed to. Then I wonder, has the Council of State chosen a company that does not have the necessary competence to perform this task, or is it such that any general tasks in this society are best performed by the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1482	I am very pleased that the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, which thus makes up the Committee's plurality, has put forward the following proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the New Norwegian Statute is continued for Posten Norge AS.’ It was underlined by the Norwegian Goal Team during the Committee's hearing that the State has a responsibility to take care of and punish the two Norwegian writing languages, and the Post Norway's leadership also made it clear during the hearing that they did not see it as something hard to hold this Statute. It is then great that the Committee majority is united in this and thus states that the Post Norway will also use both forms of the target in the future. What's pretty special about this is that, after the case has been sent from the department to us here in Stortinget, the state council finds it right to send what he calls a recording to Meld. St. 31 for 2015–2016, where the Council of State argues that the removal of the Statute must be replaced by what it calls ‘regulatory instruments’. This is a message that has got a lot of attention in public vocabulary, but the debate and commitment here in the hall also suggests that a big message about the Post is something the National Assembly would like to have. And then it's disappointing that this seems to be the last time the Stortinget gets to debate the owner's message about the Post Norway AS. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party believe that the Post's activity is a strategically important area that includes central infrastructure in society, and that the major changes that are taking place in this area show that it is important that the Storting is involved in getting a management message. The Government Party and the Left, which make up the majority both in the Committee and in the Storingssalalen, believe that it will not be right for the owner to have the Post Norway AS as one of several players in this market for the future. The size of the store also handles the business in Avinor at regular intervals. Before the aviation sector, there are also actors other than the state-owned Avinor, and if we can now also expect the Government Party and the Left to cut the ownership message about Avinor, then we as a national assembly can almost abdicate as the owner of important infrastructure companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1502	Let me try to give you some perspective on some of the dissatisfaction that has been expressed. Firstly, a government ownership message is presented at regular intervals. There one will be able to give notice of all the enterprises owned by the country. The size is free to complement its views in both the debate and the vote. So the size does not – after all – lose its right of view, control, as far as the Post is concerned, but it happens through another message. Then there's someone who doesn't believe that Kvikka's ability to deliver better Saturday newspaper distribution than what they did on the first day. That belief has to be like, but then one should document it with numbers. The fact that one comes with super-simple research is good and good, but if we're going to be able to solve the challenges that obviously exist in some places, we actually need to get specific information from the subscribers: where have the newspapers not been distributed? Only then will we be able to go in and see: Is this an area for which Kvikkas is responsible, or is it one of the areas for which the newspapers themselves are responsible? After all, they have all the responsibility for 92 pst. by subscribers on Saturdays. It's not that the state has assumed responsibility for 100 pst, but the 8 pst. which we are responsible for, I expect the papers. That's what we pay for, that's what we spend taxpayers' money for. That's why we've followed up very closely what's going on, precisely because we're not satisfied. That's why we've also planned new meetings, and we're going to make sure that the media industry and Kvikkas sit in the same room when we discuss this, so that when they have statements, they can also answer each other's claims. It was mentioned earlier in the debate that 45 000 subscribers do not receive their newspapers. If you go into that number material, you see that about 6,000 of them belong to Kvikkas. 18 000 of them belong to the newspapers' own distribution system. About 14,000 of the newspapers did not show up because one did not have access to mailboxes. All of this we're doing is solving, so the numbers are now much lower than what they were. Putting all the blame on Kvikkas is a misrepresentation of the facts in the matter. Here we have to see that this is more complicated than that. There are some newspapers that have never appeared on Saturdays. Some of the newspapers Kvikkas bring with them are Friday newspapers. So there is also a nuance that should come out in that debate. We don't do the media industry a service -- and we don't do the newspaper readers a service at least -- by operating with the black paint that one does here, where one gives the impression that this is going to be an eternal problem that no one can solve. We've been able to solve this in a lot of places. Sometimes it's still a challenge. We also know that some of those who didn't get their newspapers in the weekend that was, just didn't get them because there had been a race, which meant that the mail production didn't happen. The newspapers were handed out on Sunday instead – not in line with our demand for at noon. 17 Saturday, but anyway they did a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1515	I'm not going to continue the Saturday newspaper discussion, I think the Council of State actually presented it quite nicely. We have clear expectations that what is in the tender will be fulfilled, and that we will receive the supplies we are going to in the areas where the Post was previously the sole distributor. What I think is a little remarkable about this debate, with all the concerns that come from the Labour Party, is that we act as if this process of conversion started yesterday – but it did not. This is a transition process that the Post has been through from the millennium until now, because society is digitized, and because we stopped sending letters. It's not something that we've put on society, but something that people themselves have changed their habits for, because we're using electronic communications. We have just dealt with the big message about the Digital Agenda, and at least it is my opinion that it is a desired development. We want us to use digital services more, because it gives us better services. Then we also have to accept the consequence, and the consequence is that there will be fewer letters to send. That's what I think we have to take over, and then we don't have to act like this is a conversion process that started yesterday – it's been going on for a long time. The post and Post employees have handled this conversion process in a very exemplary way. From the millennia to the present day, 11 000 Post staff have become redundant. The Post has managed to solve it together with its employees – I don't know if I should call it ‘in a good way’, but they have done it in a very neat and proper way. I note that there is some discussion about this with ownership message/sector message. The postal market is open to competition, and this did not happen in 2015, when we opened up to competition for what is less than 50 grams. Competition in the packaging market and in major postal items has been there for a long time, for many years – even under the red-green government there was competition in the postal market. However, when we have more players in this market, it is also natural that we go from ownership notification to sector notification, just to capture all sides of this market. A sectoral notification will provide the Storting with a better overview and a better basis for discussing these issues in the future than a statement of ownership. Then I also record that, in all his concerns, the Workers' Party has also not spent more money on support purchases in its alternative budget. So the worry goes no further than that the heads and ears start counting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1531	I think maybe right rather should use the resources to worry about their own budget, as it seems that they are struggling to get into port, instead of worrying about the Labour Party's budget. We're going to take care of that in a very good way. Yes, it is good to try to blame everyone else for taking responsibility. Therefore, it is incredibly important that the decisions we make today are clear and clear, because it is clear that they were not clear enough when we adopted the postal law, and then I think about the consequences for the newspapers. That is precisely why we are promoting a proposal, which has received a majority – in fact we have all the parties – and then the message to the government and the Council of State should be fairly clear. Today we hear that the message was not when we passed the postal code, although we also had the guarantee that everyone would receive the Saturday papers. Now we hear that only someone is going to get the Saturday papers. You don't take responsibility for the others; you have to solve it in other ways, and it's too easy. It is not that everyone who received the newspapers from the Post Office last year gets them delivered by Kvikkas today – it is based on other information. It's still – at least in the last numbers I've got, which applies to the last Saturday – almost 40,000 who don't get their Saturday newspaper now, which got it earlier. When we changed the postal code, that was the reason why there was a worsening offer, and then you should stretch far to find a solution. You can owe it to race and race protection. There is also an opportunity when you come to the budget to increase that pot, because it is also not possible to deliver in the transport plan that exists. So to the proposal that exists, to cut the universal service of the five days and the interpretation of it: I just want to remind the Council of State that it was they who were eager to introduce the third postal directive. It was neither the Workers' Party nor the Centre's party that we voted against. But then a hunter must also deal with it – I have to say – because the third Postal Directive clearly states that all working days and at least five days a week are to be carried by mail. That you can then interpret it to allow for an exception of up to 10 pst. of the population — yes, it all says how important it is to say things clearly from this room, when you have a government that chooses to interpret even an EU directive in that way. So to the owner message: Yes, there is a big difference between the two types of ownership message for Stortinget. What you're doing is you're taking away the obligation to perform. It's not just an owner's message. It's actually that you have to deal with someone before making decisions. Now you move the responsibility to the board of directors, and the ownership you have is just in line with a completely different type of company than the ones that carry out such big social tasks. It's important to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1546	The President believes the representative himself knows the expression he used that is not parliamentary. The President drew attention to the fact that ‘Yaggu’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1551	When I now take the floor, it is because there have been many articles about ownership. I have to say that I think it is special that the opposition has hung up at this point, referring to the Post as operating with critical infrastructure. So it's the state that owns approx. 70 companies through 10 different departments, and the Stortinget has ample opportunity to treat that ownership through its annual ownership report. There are none of those companies – e.g. Telenor, Statkraft, Statnett, Statoil, Petoro, Gassco, NSB – which has own ownership messages for Stortinget. This is a principle to which the Workers' Party has joined, in fact unanimously here in the Chamber, that we should treat the State-owned companies in this way, and not least a company that is now a Nordic logistics group in competition with a number of other actors both in Norway and Scandinavia. At least then, I believe that it is not right to have a separate report of ownership, but that we should have a sectoral report, which can see the whole sector as a whole and look at how the sector solves the important societal task that the sector has. Is it now that the Workers' Party is going back on the ownership management of different state companies? It can work this way on the posts that are kept in this room, and it's quite eye-catching in that case. There is at least no fundamental link between the arguments put forward here today and the arguments that the Workers' Party normally makes in the Storting regarding ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1560	The last post was a unique expression of what is really the dividing lines in this room in terms of the view of what the Post is and should be for people in the future. Where we look at the Post as essential infrastructure in the centre-left direction, right-wing representatives compare the Post with a commercial product that is intended to operate exclusively in a market. It's very clarifying to get these lines out. Then I'd like to say to the Helge Place, who had the word a little while ago: that's not the background for the changes to come, we're discussing today. What we are discussing is how to ensure that people have an equivalent offer across the country in the future. We are discussing the responsibility of the Council of States to ensure that the will of the Storting is actually implemented. Here Stortinget has been very clear on the matter of Saturday newspapers, but the Council of State has not taken the responsibility of the Council of State. Then it is our duty to take it up and make sure that we ensure that the matter is resolved and that subscribers receive the Saturday paper. Therefore, we need to make sure that we make an even clearer decision this time – which ensures solutions before making further changes in delivery. Therefore, it is also disappointing when the Council of State chooses to meet our concerns — the figures presented by the industry itself — with characteristics such as black paint, with all the claims and simply shifting responsibility to the industry. It is not worth a state council when you see how many problems there are today for subscribers and for newspapers that are afraid of the future. The numbers presented by the industry are refuted, and Solvik-Olsen characterises it as super-simple research. The problem is that Solvik-Olsen and the government parties talk like that about the matter: just relax, folks, it's solving all over the place, it's a big improvement over the past few weeks. The numbers that we get from the industry show the opposite. There are major problems, and it's hard to see that there's going to be a solution in the short term. It's obvious that Solvik-Olsen itself uses numbers that don't match reality out there. Therefore, we are concerned that the Council of State must provide solutions before a joint postal stream is implemented. I would like to ask: will the Council of State – in terms of numbers – be willing to listen to actors other than just Kvikkas, for example. The newspaper industry, so that we get clean facts on the table and can get a government council that takes the responsibility he has?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1573	Now we've seen the whole series of gold running, and I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to be able to do it, so that Granny of the representative Grande gets her Saturday newspaper. This has been very much about what requirements were set, especially for Kvikkas or other tenderers. I have no doubt that the representatives in the Chamber today are aware that the changeover requires a certain amount of time. It is not possible to get anything from a Monday to a Tuesday, it must be done. The will and wish of both the Council of State and the majority, both in opposition and in position, is that one should serve the newspaper market as well as one can – there is no doubt, there is no evil will here. Report. St. 31 for 2015–2016 The postal sector is called in change, and the post office is – if I should choose this word – in forward-looking development. Then it's important that it's not just, as we've seen here, the Saturday paper that's the theme -- it's almost just it. It's actually about so much more. We're in a transition. We have just discussed the Digital Agenda, and look at developments, it is clear that this will affect the postal sector – like all other sectors. The physical record of the future will not come as it is today. It will come from a 3D printer. When the packages of the representative tongue come to the two-year-old, who may be a few years older, there will be a 3D printer that prints them out. Then we're in the middle of thinking about the impossible, thinking about what's going to happen. There's a postal sector changing. We cannot stop progress, and neither should we. I am sure that the challenges that we have now discussed are well taken care of by the government. It was now said by the representative of Grande that the subscribers are afraid of the future. I feel a little set back on the debate we had before this post-debate, that is, on the Digital Agenda. The fact that you have to be afraid of the future when you don't get the Saturday paper – I'm aware that I'm putting it a little on the verge, but I think more than a couple here should take a look and see what this really is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1586	I could not benefit from the contributions of the representative of Grande. He spoke of «essential infrastructure», that the Post was such an essential infrastructure and therefore requires a separate notification of ownership. But what he says then is that e.g. State networks do not represent essential infrastructure in Norway. Statnet has no own ownership message. It is treated in the same way as all the other around 70 companies in which the State holds a holding. I think that Statnett represents essential infrastructure perhaps even more than a company like the Post, which is a Nordic logistics group that competes in a number of sectors around the Nordic region. A more interesting parallel might be Telenor, which, after all, does not have its own ownership message, but which also has what can be called essential infrastructure, which is treated in the same way as the other companies the state owns, and on which, in the previous case, we dealt with a sector notification, namely the Digital Agenda. I did not hear the Workers' Party then order that we take a company in the sector that represents the digital sphere, and have a separate ownership message about it instead of discussing the sector's challenges and opportunities and what we can do to facilitate a digital future. What we're doing is not, as the representative Grande has said, taking the Post out of this hall. We're moving the sector into this room. It is good, when reality is like that – which also started under the red-green government – that the Post is not unique in Norway, but one of many players competing in a postal market that is in a major transformation, not because of decisions in this room, but because of changes in people’s behaviour. We cannot adopt ourselves out of that change, but we can facilitate that change as useful as possible for the whole of society. So I want to maintain that there is no connection between what the Workers' Party is talking about in this case, where they are asking for their own ownership message, and the ownership policy of the Workers' Party stands in all other companies managed by the State, not least in companies that also manage essential infrastructure, like Statnett, like Telenor, like a number of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1595	In this debate, it has at least become clear that the Labour Party is dissatisfied. But they have had very few suggestions on how things should be different. In the state budget of the Workers' Party, there was no extra krone to make any changes to the Post's system, not a krone to continue distributing mail on Saturdays and not a krone to signal a rematch about the contract for Saturday's distribution of newspapers. Ergo is going to be this very much complaint. When I talked about ‘super-prime research’, it wasn’t based on media industry figures, so once again creates a debate that’s not right. What I pointed out was that the representative Grande used his own experiences to generalise his dissatisfaction with everyone, and I pointed out that that is not right. Then I broke down the numbers that the media industry has used, and pointed out: Which of these problems is there in the area where Kvikkas has won a bid, and where they are unable to do the job, and which of these areas is what belongs to where the media industry itself has its newspapers? If the Workers' Party believes that the state should take responsibility for all the Saturday papers, it is a completely different debate than what we have had so far. I have not understood that it has been a requirement in Norway to have a state newspaper delivery company, but we have made sure that there is a distribution of newspapers where the industry itself, the commercial forces, has not had the distribution apparatus in place. That's why we're spending 100 million. the taxpayers’ money to do just that. That the Workers' Party is able to get 100 million. kr in the effort to mean that one does not care about the districts, says more about a debate technique than it says about the realities of the content, because we have just said by making the decisions we have made, that it is important for us to distribute the paper newspapers. Experience so far shows that the problems that existed at first have been solved – gradually – but we are not in the target. The working party thinks I haven't done enough. It is well possible that I could do things better, and I am always receptive to suggestions as to what I should have done instead or in addition. I haven't heard a single proposal. But we've had weekly meetings with the actors, we've met the media industry, we've met Kvikkas. We're trying to get an overview of where things go wrong. Kvikkas reports to us. It is possible that the representative of Grande believes that we cannot rely on the figures from Kvikkas, and I would like to receive alternative figures from the representative of Grande, but Kvikkas reports that they received 74 079 newspapers on the weekend that was now. The delivery quality in North Norway for the newspapers they received was below 100 pst. The delivery quality in South Norway was at the top of 96 pst. The post office has never delivered 100 pst. of all that they have received at all times. It's obvious that 96 pst. is not good enough, but it's a different picture than giving the impression that the whole country now does not get its Saturday newspapers. A lot has been solved. We're not on target. We're going to solve this further. I take that responsibility, even if the Workers' Party refuses to hear it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1608	There was a very interesting angle at the end of the debate, I have to say. What you're saying about digital transmission in the future, even a 3D printer, is interesting, but at least it doesn't help for biological tests, as we do from the Center Party, etc. have been engaged in securing in the future. In that case, it must be reasonably far ahead of time. When you let such an important theme almost disappear in the discussion about ownership, I become genuinely concerned, because if what we have now seen in the light of Saturday's newspapers is to reflect a future arrangement for such an important part of health care, of veterinary services and a number of other areas, we can have a fairly large chaos when this comes into force. It is still the case that Saturday newspapers are missing very many places, and of course, where most of them are missing, there is no broadband today, and so you cannot read them digitally either. Then there are very big differences in the offer to people around. Equivalent services also have to be ensured in the postal sector in the coming years, so I think there are good reasons why many of the parties here want us to continue to have an announcement of ownership, just to correct such kinds of statements as we have seen in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1615	The representative of Arild Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. First of all, Åse Michaelsen claimed I said that the subscribers are afraid of their future. That wasn't the right quote. I said that many newspapers are concerned about their future. Thanks to the lack of action by the government, there are now hundreds of subscribers who cancel their subscription because they do not get what they have paid for. It is critical for an industry that today has major challenges in funding journalism at a stage where you would be working to renew subscriptions for the new year, and where hopefully you would earn good dollars on Christmas trading and advertising in that regard. And then the government sticks his hands in the wheels for that venture in the media industry. I record that Solvik-Olsen is dissatisfied with the fact that we use numbers from the industry. I'm just referring to what I said earlier about the misunderstanding between what Kvikkas reports, and what the industry itself reports, among other things. on the problems in Finnmark. I believe that Solvik-Olsen must take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1626	That is when the debate ends, and I would like to thank everyone for their participation in the debate and the recordings that have been made. A few minor clarifications about things that have been said in the debate: there are questions about whether there was a need for self-communication here compared to other companies. Now, once again, the Post is a critical infrastructure. It shows this message today, and not least it shows the need for the Storting to have the opportunity to go in and say in connection with that notification. Had we not had this message today, we would not have had this opportunity to add leadership, we could have risked that the Post had been sitting there tomorrow with authority to cut 10 pst. on the number of five-day shifts. That's what Stortinget says no. The size says that it should happen, the Storting should have it for treatment. That's an example of how important that case is. I just have to feel confident that the Council of State will take decisions and do what he can to ensure that we do not stand here for the next year and be dissatisfied with the consequences that it has had, for laboratory tests, medicine, newspapers and other things, in the light of the change that we are making today. It's not that we think it's the Post and the State that's going to carry out all the newspapers, but as the Government's Council of State, which has executive power, you have to try to make arrangements and make sure that you get the best possible solution for these newspapers. Then it shouldn't always be dependent on heads and ears. There may be other measures to put these things in place. I think it's a little too easy to blame others for being easy. We should stick to that for good. Finally, I did not get an answer to that – and now there is a clear decision from Stortinget – but there is still a question in the air here about how to interpret the possibility in the Postal Directive on the cutting of five postal days, where it is clear that there should be a minimum of five delivery days. It may hang there, but with the decision taken today, the Storting should in any case not be concerned about that interpretation. It's pretty clear. That is when the mandate is valid today, you have to deal with it. Then you have to get back here with a case – and not just with a message – if you're going to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1644	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1649	I will not help to pull the debate out any longer, but I noticed what the case rapporteur said at the end, which relates to the message we are handling. It is a message that has the title Post sector in its amended form. So it's a sector message we're dealing with, a message that addresses the whole problem area or, perhaps, that was the wrong word, the whole challenge picture in the postal sector. That is exactly the whole point of the discussion about whether we should have an ownership message, or whether we should have a sector message, namely that one can get a situation where there are several players competing in the same market. It would be too narrow to have a purely ownership message related to the Post, when we really want to deal with the whole sector together and bring it to debate in the Stortinge, just to get the most overall approach possible. I simply do not understand that approach on the part of the Workers' Party to the very thing with ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1654	No more have asked for the word on case 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1668	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1677	Good maritime infrastructure is important for efficient maritime transport and for value creation and construction along the coast. Maritime transport plays an important role for future jobs, and Norway should also be an important maritime nation in the future. Responsibility for safety at sea and preparedness for acute pollution is shared between several departments and etatars. This flashdown message focuses on actions within the Ministry of Transport, and questions related to recreational boats are not mentioned in this message. Ship traffic in Norwegian waters has increased since 2005. Today, traffic is dominated by passenger ships, bulk ships and fishing vessels. Measured in marked distances, the West has the most extensive traffic. The outlook for the evolution of ship traffic up to 2040 indicates a cumulative increase in the nominal distance of 41 pst. Although most sea hatches have limited consequences, some accidents result in death or acute pollution, the number of accidents with acute pollution internationally has, fortunately, declined since the 1970s. The size decided on a 30 pst target earlier this year. of what is carried by road over 300 km shall be transferred to rail and sea by 2030 and that this figure shall be 50 pst. by 2050. This is a measure that increases the level of ambition and allows the forecasts of maritime transport to become even higher as one reaches the target. The expected increase in maritime traffic up to 2040 could increase environmental risks and could lead to more accidents if new preventive measures are not taken or existing measures are extended. Among other things, technology development and changes in shipping requirements may affect the likelihood of accidents occurring. The analysis of the causes of accidents shows that human error is often the direct cause. The picture of the reasons behind this is complex. There are several factors that have a negative impact on the navigation process, such as the lack of interaction and coordination on the vessel, the lack of use of available personnel and the lack of procedures and procedures. In addition, the situation is often exacerbated by difficult external conditions such as bad weather and visibility or strong currents. The Committee shares in its comments the objective of zero vision, which states that there should be no accident with fatal or severe damage in the transport sector, and that, in line with the zero vision, a main objective is also to reduce the number of road accidents. The main objective of state preparedness is to prevent and limit environmental damage in the event of acute pollution or the risk of acute pollution, and the responsibility of the State for preparedness for acute pollution also involves following up shipwrecks that pose a risk of acute pollution. Codes for international shipping are developed in the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation. In addition, the EU provides leadership for the operation of Norwegian ports and safe and trajectory in Norwegian waters. Arctic Councils are also important for Norway’s work on prevention of maritime safety and preparedness for acute pollution. A good understanding of the risks is crucial for closing the maritime safety work, and the Committee stresses in its comments that it is important in both the Ministry of Transport and the Coastal Agency, but also that understanding of the objectives and risks is shared by the other departments and departments, as well as by voluntary and non-profit organisations. This is an important and good message in many ways, but it mainly deals with what is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, then with the main emphasis on infrastructure and transport systems. I am therefore pleased that the Committee through good interaction, and not least as a result of good recordings through the hearing, is now asking for a new message to be drafted as a follow-up to this message. So what a joint committee is now proposing is: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a major communication on better interaction between all actors in terms of prevention of maritime security and coastal preparedness.’ And last but not least, it is in the committee's proposal: ‘The notification shall also cover the openings of kennels for the use of recreational craft.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1712	Let me first thank the rapporteur and the committee for their thorough and constructive consideration of this report. As indicated in the Storing Communication, responsibility for maritime safety and preparedness for acute pollution is shared between several departments and involves several actors. Report. St. 35 for 2015-2016, Straight ahead, is a follow-up to a similar message presented by the Bondevik II Government in 2005 and addresses actions within the remit of the Ministry of Transport. Maritime transport is both an environmentally friendly and safe mode of transport. Therefore, it is an objective to transfer more of the goods from road to sea. We know that the amount of goods will increase significantly, and that much of this growth will have to be taken by sea. The forecasts for ship traffic trends indicate a growth of over 40 pst. towards 2040. In addition to efficient and safe freight transport, maritime transport contributes to road congestion and increased road safety. Preventive maritime safety is often about countering the factors that can lead to human error. We also have an ambitious zero vision at sea, and although it may be difficult to reach, it's important to reach for it. Therefore, we must and must maintain and strengthen the high level of safety in maritime transport and continue to build a good preparedness for acute pollution. The government points to several preventive maritime safety measures that will be prioritised in the coming years: The government will extend the service areas to the maritime traffic centres. It makes sense and means that larger areas can be covered. Land-based AIS base stations shall be developed on Svalbard in order to strengthen the maritime traffic monitoring. It will provide us with more relevant information and a good overview of our marine areas. We will continue to develop and modernise existing infrastructure. These are actions that will be prioritised in the National Transport Plan, which we will deal with in the spring. An area that is becoming increasingly important is to facilitate the development and implementation of intelligent transport systems, including in maritime transport. Technological developments are accelerating and will contribute to more efficient and secure solutions. It may not be long before autonomous vessels become a normal view of Norwegian waters. The government is also proposing increased research activity in this area. Preparedness for acute contamination takes place in an interaction between private actors, countries and municipalities. The fundamental principle is that the operator of activities which may result in acute contamination should provide the necessary preparedness. The municipality has subsidiary obligations of action, and the Coastal Agency maintains state preparedness and has personnel and materials available. Based on the previous Storing Communication, from 2004 to 2005, preparedness has been significantly upgraded over the last 10 years, in terms of both equipment and exercises. In order to further develop and strengthen preparedness for acute pollution, it is appropriate to implement new measures: firstly, it is important to have an up-to-date and relevant knowledge base on coastal environmental risks. With increasing ship traffic and increased bets in the seabed, this is more relevant than ever. The government also signals that they will consider establishing a state dispersal preparedness, i.e. the use of chemical means to dissolve oil. Furthermore, measures to improve preparedness for acute pollution in Arctic regions will be considered. It may also be appropriate to assemble the oil protection equipment in fewer and more mobile depot solutions. Mobile solutions can in many cases be more flexible. Close and good cooperation between public and private actors will provide enhanced preparedness, and it may be appropriate to outsource the storage, operation and transport of State oil protection equipment where it provides more efficient solutions and better use of public resources. The Storting Communication gives a good description of the situation and measures in the Department of Transport, I think we can agree on that, and shows that the Department is doing a good job of strengthening the prevention of maritime safety and increasing preparedness for acute pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1743	Preventive maritime safety and measures against acute pollution involve many departments, other public actors and more non-profit and non-profit organisations. The consultation of the message called for a more comprehensive approach to maritime safety and preparedness, where interaction is an important keyword, and where accidents in recreational craft are included. For this reason, it is natural for us to support the Committee's joint proposal to make an additional communication that addresses precisely these issues, and we hope that it can contribute to providing complementary knowledge, as a complement to an otherwise good news report.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1746	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good and constructive job in the Committee. Over several centuries, Norway has believed very highly as a recognised and respected maritime nation. Our country is largely created by values from and through the sea. We will take care of this story and not least continue with pride. This requires that we base good framework conditions on this sector and ensure that those who work in this field have a safe job to do. The government has submitted the Storing Message On the right course, which deals with just this. It is more than ten years since the last time the Stortingen received such a message for treatment, and I am pleased that this topic is now being re-emphasized. The message describes the state of security and preparedness along our coast and takes on the measures that the government will continue to take to strengthen this work. Those who work with this, or who live in communities that are at risk of being affected in the event of serious accidents, deserve to know that we have a preparedness to be there in case of life, or there is serious acute pollution that could be more damaging to our environment. The progress party is in line with the objective of transporting more goods by sea. Maritime transport has evolved into a very efficient and environmentally friendly transport, which can be exploited even better. When this government took over, a coastal infrastructure was delivered in clear decline – similar to the road and rail sectors. I am very pleased that this government has increased the appropriations for coastal infrastructure by over 30 pst. It is a cross-political objective that we should have more goods at sea, but that requires political priority. Transport budgets have increased by 20 billion. kr since 2014, and it gives an impact. If we are to get more goods transported by sea, we must ensure that the infrastructure in and out of ports is sufficient and efficient. Reduction of maintenance kits, several and good logistic nodes combined with a road network that is fully built in view of the different transport flows is important. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that has a goal of more holistic development of society than we have seen before. There are many different organisations, companies and agencies that are contributors to creating a safe everyday life at sea. Maritime traffic centres ensure that logistics and traffic at sea are safe and efficient. The Coastal Agency implements a wide range of measures in port structures, marking of the edges and dangerous grounds and maintaining important fairways. In connection with this debate, I would like to address a few additional words to the Rescue Company, which also have a major role to play in maritime safety. The work of the rescue company is carried out to a large extent by volunteers, who use their own leisure time to keep shipping, but also us with leisure boats safe at sea. The company has skates located along the entire Norwegian coast, which are in readiness if an accident should occur. It is therefore important that we recognise and follow up the important work that the company does. This government has almost doubled the grants to the company, as opposed to the previous period. This is a very important signal. The Progress Party will ensure stable framework conditions for the company. In the revised state budget for 2016, the company received an additional 10 million. kr, after cancellation of the differentiated employer’s fee scheme. This case is now under examination at ESA, and here the government will come back if the decision is final. In the hearing opinions on the notification, it is clear that some organisations were somewhat disappointed that recreational boats were not mentioned to a greater extent. An overall committee has listened to these recordings and therefore asks the government to come back with an overall notification of this at a later stage. However, it is important for me to clarify that the notification as a whole is good and ambitious in the field of maritime safety. The last time a similar message was presented, the small boat was not included in the review either. I am pleased that the government is proposing an offensive commitment to more technology development in maritime transport. Trondheim port has, among other things, have become a test port for autonomous ships and several other ports have begun to use modern technology to ensure efficient and safe access and logistics. With this message, the Government intends to further develop and modernise navigation infrastructure and implement new, intelligent transport systems for maritime transport. The technology lies ahead of us, and it is essential that we as the authorities follow this up, and ensure that we are still internationally leading in maritime transport. A number of measures have been taken to ensure that maritime transport is competitive and the level of the industry’s taxation has also been significantly reduced during this period. The totality shows that we have a government that is on a clear straight course within the field, and I am satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1782	Norway has long and proud traditions in the maritime industry. ‘Norwegian sailor’ is a concept. Norwegian ships and Norwegian flags have sailed on the seven seas. It has created huge coastal assets, and it has created industries, jobs and well-being in our long-term country. Today, shipping is still one of the most complete clusters we have on the food side, a cluster that I hope and think we're going to bring with us for many generations. Therefore, it is important that we facilitate the general framework conditions for the development of the industry in Norway, see the potential of the cluster, and ensure that the ‘Norwegian seafarer’ remains a concept in the future. In this context, safety and preparedness along the coast are very important, because although many of our ships sail on the seven seas, we also have many Norwegian ships and foreign ships along our coast. You have to feel safe to travel on the sea. You have to feel taken care of if you live by the sea. Maritime transport is an environmentally friendly and safe form of transport, and we want more of the transport to be done at sea. That's why we've invested a lot of money in building up the coastal infrastructure, which expired under the previous government, in the same way as road and rail, but is now being maintained to reduce the downturn. We have greatly increased the appropriations for the infrastructure needed, even if we are not in the target. In this context, we also have to look at what we can do further. How can we make sure that preparedness, if anything happens, is better than what it has been? There are a lot of moves we can take, and therefore we presented the message we are now discussing – the first in ten years, the last time under the Bondevik government. Lots of things have happened since then. A lot has come into place, but there is also a lot that needs to be done further. The reason why this is particularly important now is the forecasts we have for further shipping activity along our coast. You can imagine a growth of maybe over 40 pst. the next ten years. If we do nothing but say that we are satisfied with today's state, it will mean many more accidents. This can mean major environmental damage, but not least human life can be at stake. Some of the measures we propose in the communication are to extend the service area to maritime traffic centres – simply because some of the challenges we face are human mistakes that are being made. If we can give more assistance to those on board ships, we could also help prevent errors from occurring. We will further develop and modernise the navigation infrastructure. We're going to bet on intelligent maritime transport transport systems, and we're going to expand AIS base stations on Svalbard. Based on knowledge of environmental risks, we will also ensure that we have good preparedness for acute pollution. This includes, inter alia: that we are looking at measures to strengthen preparedness for Svalbard and Jan Mayen. We will consider establishing state dispersal preparedness, and we will consider alternatives to today’s location and organisation of state oil protection reserves – simply because, on the basis of a professional justification, we need to be able to have the depots where they are most useful, where there is the shortest way to potential accident sites, and where they can be operated in the most efficient way possible. Furthermore, we are committed to good coordination and interaction between state, municipal and private preparedness for acute pollution, so that we make the best possible use of the overall response resources in society. It also requires common exercises and exchanges of information on planning, management principles and resources. I spent a lot of my summer traveling along the coast. I experienced the Coastal Works, shipping companies, seafarers, ports – yes, many aspects of Norwegian shipping. We see how you have invested a lot of money, how you are all about coordination. At the same time, there are very many actors operating. That means you need to have a knowledge sharing to make people as conscious of challenges as possible, and how to solve problems that arise. That's why it's important that we have this message, which makes it visible where the state is now, what has been done up until now, but not least the way we're going to go further. It should also be safe to know in the future that Norwegian maritime nutrition and our long, beautiful coast are well maintained because good public services and good private actors are provided with safety and preparedness at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1803	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1808	It seems to the Council of State that it has been right to omit a report of accidents relating to recreational boats in a staggering message of preventive maritime safety, when, among other things. The basic document for the upcoming NTP shows that the comparison with maritime shipwrecks in the context of nutrition is a significant, even about six times higher, number of casualties associated with the use of recreational craft?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1813	The fact that it is not mentioned does not mean that it is not important, but it is about the scope of the notification to begin with, namely maritime transport by commercial vessel, and that is what the communication has said. I appreciate the commitment that Stortinget also shows to the accidents that happen on recreational craft, and how one can avoid them. It's something the government is also working on, but it wasn't the natural thing to do in this particular message. When Stortinget decides that they will have their own message about it, Stortinget will get it. Then I'm also very happy that the Workers' Party is showing commitment, for one could say that when one believes that it should be here, a demand can be made when such a message came in the last eight years when the party of Magne Rommetveit crashed. Then there was nothing. However, some action plans came from some of the agencies, and we also follow up those action plans, because we think they make sense. I do not think that there is a very great political division that we are going to take more care of the recreational boat segment, and that is also evident in our state budget, where we want to strengthen, for example. The State's accident commission, just to investigate and understand why accidents occur, in order to counteract them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1820	Now I've been sitting here for just four of the last eight years, and I prefer to look forward. I thought it was very nice that we got together in the committee, and got a big crowd that is now asking for the follow-up of a message that looks at better interaction between the actors. I wonder if the Council of State can say something about when and in what way he sees that such a message can be made, and in what way one can then be the intention of maritime safety across sectors and institutions. I don't least think about this with the placement of responsibility and coordination of leases in both prevention and emergency accidents, because there was a lot of what happened in the hearing, and whether he can also say something about how he wants to involve the voluntary organisations, such as boat organisations and the Rescue Company, in this work, because I think it's very important that everyone is involved, including those who have to worry about when something happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1827	Through the policy of the government, we have tried to meet precisely the wishes that one has, even without having a notice of it. Now it is not certain that it is the Ministry of Transport that wants that message, it may well be the Ministry of Food and Fisheries – we will come back to that – but the government will have to make sure that notification comes to Stortinget. It'll be too early for me to make an outline of how that message should be, but let me tell you a little bit about what the government is already doing. We've already granted almost 1 million in 2016. to voluntary teams and organisations, precisely to contribute to maritime work aimed at children and young people. In our draft budget, we state that the Coastal Agency should investigate measures to strengthen the safety of recreational craft, including: through its own designated navigation manager, improved navigation support and enhanced knowledge base related to cause and effect of recreational boat accidents. We propose in the 2017 budget that we strengthen the State's disaster commission, so that they can investigate accidents that happen, understand why they happen, and what will help prevent them again. A number of actions are already taking place, and through the work of the Rescue Company, they also have an important role to play in strengthening this. I fully agree with Storting's commitment, and we're going to deliver a message about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1835	Just a little bit about the way. I've never been to a department, not yet, but I think: can it be natural that the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Food and Fisheries and the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport, are joining forces to create such a message, to really develop something that works well together?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1840	I don't think it was a good idea if we didn't work across the department boundaries. That's at least the way this government works. I don't know what it was like when the representative Rommetveits party put in government last time. We've got a lot of input from the other departments about this, but it's now that there's one department that promotes a message to the Stortinget. It is not the case that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries are promoting a communication together. It tends to have a logo on the top. That's why a leading department has one, and that's what I'm pointing at here. We're going to contribute as much as we can, and I think that now that we've actually presented the first maritime safety message in ten years, it shows that we've taken responsibility, because this is an important area for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1849	The case contains, also from the government, a report of the submarine missile U-864. For that reason, I would like to quote from NRK Hordaland on April 30, 2013. Then the Right and Advance Party guaranteed the raising of the submarine U-864 outside Fedje which has tons of mercury on board the environmental poison. Right Øyvind Halleraker said: ‘There will be no cover leaving this pollution, uncertainty and explosive in the future.’ Arne Sortevik of the Advance Party said: ‘Opposition of the day’ — i.e. the government of the day — ‘has a common view on that matter’. Then I asked Ketil Solvik-Olsen about the following: Is there the lack of executive power that makes the submarine not raised, or is it such that this was just right populist election bottle, which makes the government stand back, three and a half years into the pouring period?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1864	It's kind of a strange question to get from someone who put himself in a government and didn't do anything with the area, besides providing countless investigations. Today's government has now made sure that those investigations have been carried out, because we have granted money and have completed the creation of a back-up that makes the submarine now stable, precisely so that we can do the next grip. We've actually spent money, we've made sure that action has taken place. But then that stuff has to be for a while, precisely because you also have to make sure that things are stabilized before you go on. There has been new knowledge after the introduction that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås mentioned. It turns out that very many of the mercury containers found on the bottom were empty. This means that there is now a different assessment of the risk of spreading the likely mercury mass on the seabed than one thought. I'm always going to make my decisions based on as much up-to-date and renewed knowledge as possible. I hope that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås will also be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1871	In other words, does the Council of State open up that the guarantee from Arne Sortevik and Øyvind Halleraker will not be honoured, and that it may be appropriate not to lift the submarine outside of Fedje?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1876	The guarantee I'm going to give is that we're going to deal with this problem. We shall not solve this with further investigations, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås did when he sat in government. We're going to make sure that this is handled better, but exactly which solution turns out to be the best when the decision is taken, I can't shoot right now. But we've made sure that we spend over 100 million. kr to build this filling. We show the willingness to spend money where the previous government only provided investigations. I think that ensuring people's confidence in politicians is about actually making a decision sometimes. My decision is that we are going to deal with this in the best possible way. I hope the representative Eidsvoll Holmås will support me in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1883	I'm here to deal with it in the best possible way, but I notice that the Right Party and the Advance Party thought was the best possible way, was to raise, and I notice that the Council of State has now been sitting for four years, and that the government has chosen not to cancel. I think that's okay. I think that in matters that are difficult and complicated, you have to take proper discussions and try to find common solutions, instead of offering easy-to-use guarantees as it turns out that you are unable to fulfill. I think it is nice that the Council of State admits that he has not automatically intended to honour the guarantee from Halleraker and Arne Sortevik, but it was now the guarantee that was given.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1888	I think it is more alarming that one comes with slightly bent claims and almost rejoices that it is not covered yet. So we sat with knowledge of this submarine wreck for quite a long time without the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, when he was in government, being able to do anything. We have at least made decisions to ensure that progress is now made in the matter, which will ensure that money is allocated, which will ensure that you have even more knowledge of how to deal with this in the best possible way. That the representative Eidsvoll Holmås rejoices a little that one has not done anything before, I think is quite sad, for we should have solved this many, many years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1893	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1898	I'll be brief. Good maritime infrastructure is important for efficient value creation and settlement across the coast. For generations Norway has been among the largest shipping nations in the world — a position that has created and still creates great values for Norway. Much good work has been done since the previous maritime safety and oil protection report was presented, but with increasing traffic and changes in the use of different fuel types, we must continue to work on safety for both workers and the environment. The left is concerned with the prevention of maritime safety and the preparedness for acute coastal pollution. With increasing coastal traffic, the risk of accidents will increase, and it is important that we maintain a good dialogue with, among other things. EU and UN Maritime Organisation, IMO. The maritime safety notification mainly addresses the responsibilities of the Ministry of Transport. These themes are important to address, but the Left lacks focus on two things: we lack better interaction between the different actors in maritime transport, and we also lack a focus on recreational boats, since they provide a significant traffic along the coast. Furthermore, the use of recreational craft is strongly increasing. We therefore support the Committee's proposal that the government should present a big message focusing on these two areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1911	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1917	Norway is a maritime nation — a people of the sea. We have the world's second longest coastline. We have a large share of the world fleet's ships, and the sea areas we live in are six times the land area of the nation. Large parts of our value creation have come, come and will still come from the sea. Most of this sea is in the north. There is a significant increase in maritime activity in the area. Today there are 85 psts. of the maritime activity of the Arctic in the Norwegian sector and with an increasing prevalence and activity. For example, the Coast Guard now reports on fisheries north of Svalbard. The government’s political platform states that the northern regions are Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest and that the areas are very important for Norway, both in terms of security policy and economics. According to the government, environmental and climate challenges are particularly visible in the north. The melting of the police opens up the possibility of a northern sea route between Europe and Asia. Increased ship traffic and petroleum activity increase the need for search and rescue services and environmental protection. In the event of an accident, it is important to have revised plans to ensure the rapid and effective mobilisation of correct and sufficient resources, due to the great distances, cold, dark and climate challenges. Liquid units and the load they carry in these waters represent large economic values. A major marine casualty in the areas could also represent a significant pollution hazard and be very demanding for rescue personnel, while at the same time mobilising relevant life-saving equipment for a long time. Then this message is alarmingly weak in the discussion of the northern regions. The project SARINOR, which deals with the rescue of personnel in major accidents in the northern regions, has just been completed. The project was 50 pst. funded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with EUR 9 million. kr, and it has a wide range of recommendations for enhanced preparedness. The project is not mentioned in this message. Unfortunately, the responsible departments or agencies have also not begun to implement the knowledge and recommendations obtained through the project. There is no coordination between the actors here. This is how this government works on the matter – without coordination, not coordination. Now the project SARINOR 2 has been launched, and it's a continuation that focuses on precisely saving material values and preventing environmental pollution, that is, at the very heart of what this big message is about. The project is funded by 8 million. NOK 9 million and UD 9 million. kr by private actors. Neither is it mentioned in one word in the message. I am very pleased that there is a joint committee that asks the government to come back to Stortingen with a big message of better interaction between the actors in maritime safety and coastal preparedness. As far as the Council of State is concerned, I would like to stress that the North, where most of the sea lies, must be given great attention in that communication with its particular challenges. I also assume that the knowledge that is actually available is used and that it is based on the strategies and measures that you would recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1936	It was the exchange of lines between the representative Eidsvoll Holmås and the council of state of U-864 that made me take the floor, for I have to clear up a quite obvious misunderstanding that the council gave the impression of here instead. In fact, the Red-Green Government proposed not to go further with the planned lifting project, which was then explored, precisely with the background of the best available knowledge. That matter was dealt with and voted over a late night hour in this room. Then both the Right Party and the Advance Party voted against that we should not go further with that project – it is uncertain what knowledge they put on that was not put on by the Red-Green Government. In fact, for a few hours we had a majority – whether it was voting errors or what it was, I don't know, but there was at least a majority in this room to contract with a Dutch company. Fortunately, we were given the vote again the next day, so that we did not initiate a project that was out of order on all the bows and edges. So I'm very happy that the Council of State now announces that the Progress Party and the Right are also engaged in using the best available knowledge. It deserves the coast and not least the seafood industry, which has this U-864 lying. I have to say that it has really surprised me how quiet it has been around this U-864 after the government change. As a coastal minister, I was here almost once a month and answered questions, especially from the Progress Party, but also from the Right, but then it became completely silent. I am very pleased with what is being said by the Council of State, that something will be done about it – he has had three and a half years on him – that's good. I also expect that the knowledge he uses for what is to be done is what was formerly called investigations – that was not the way of all the names that were used. But getting the best available knowledge is part of a process that is important. And again, I'm very happy that the Right Party government has now come to sense and listened to the best available knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1947	I think the last debate is getting a little special. Here we have now seen that both the Workers' Party and SV are very pleased that one was not able to cancel the submarine wreck. But one didn't do anything else either, and that's what's kind of eye-catching here. Because if the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party could show that in their eight years they had actually done other grips that handled the mercury, they would be given the honor of me. But to stand here and rejoice that the Progress Party and the Right did not get a majority when we put in opposition, while the Labour Party did nothing else to deal with it, I think that's very disappointing. Then we can at least show that we have fought this battle as far as we can. We have not yet reached a conclusion on how to deal with this, but we have actually taken action to deal with it – we have built up a support filling. It was not even possible for the Workers' Party – for how to handle this further. A little bit of the challenge with this wreck is that if we start doing a lot of work in the areas around, it can start to rage, because we know it's on the verge. But now, at least, we're getting ready to do something about it, and it shows a difference in the power of action of those who crashed before, who investigated, and those who rule now, who actually decide, and then initiate. Similarly, it is a little strange to hear the Workers' Party have concerns about the situation in North Norway. Because even though the Workers' Party does not like to be reminded that you have been in government, it is nevertheless worth remembering that in our three years we have promoted this message, and now it is being dealt with. The Bondevik government was also able to do that. They were also able to promote a message and process it, but then it went eight years without the Storting getting a message on this topic. But then it's all of a sudden very important that every little exercise that happens in the northern regions should be mentioned in a message that the Workers' Party didn't seem to be important to promote when they themselves ran. It gives a wrong image when you give the impression that things don't work in the north, when you give the impression that it's a forgotten part of the country. Firstly, we see, for example: on the transport side that North Norway has received almost a triple in appropriations for road construction. A great deal is being built in maritime safety along the coast. Professionals estimate that coastal preparedness in the north has never been better than it is now. So it's going to be a pretty weird picture the representative Sivertsen draws when he gives the impression that there's hardly any coordination, and that little has happened. The monitoring of ship traffic along the Norwegian coast has been significantly strengthened, a traffic separation system has been established, and recommended sailing routes have moved further out of the country than before. It reduces the risk. We've had state towboat readiness, there's been state unloaded service, and there's no obligation on Svalbard. These are some of the grips that have been done, precisely because we have to take care of the northern areas in particular, because there are potentially more vulnerable some places if accidents happen. And the most important thing we can do then is prevent accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1960	I'm going to appeal to the Council of State's rhetoric and say that it's special to have a Council of State that has such contempt for knowledge, which seems problematic to collect knowledge before making decisions on difficult issues. If it's the case that this thing with the submarine should have been sorted out for so many years ago, why isn't it done in the three and a half years that the council has actually been in power? So I actually don't think I mentioned North Norway in my post. I was talking about the northern regions. I talked about the government being concerned that this was an area of great economic interest to the nation, and that there is increasing activity there, with the possibilities it actually offers, but that the government also points out that these are particularly vulnerable areas, with difficult operational conditions, and that if the accident were to be out first, it could have very serious consequences. I agree with all these assessments. It's obviously just the council that's not concerned about this, and it can be that there's actually a situation here that isn't well cared for today. I want to hold on to the criticism that it's alarming that the government is spending almost 20 million dollars. It is clear to everyone else that this is not good enough. And then it's not even mentioned when we're discussing this. It's especially, when we're talking about something that's as important as what the Council of State described in its first article. In terms of information on measures, as the Council of State comes with here, on everything that has been done — yes, that is good. Things go forward, but the activity is increasing. The consequences can be greater precisely because there is a greater load, a greater activity. But most of these measures are not something that was invented by the government of Solberg. These are measures that have been initiated, investigated and implemented by the previous government. That's good. It's good that this government has followed it up, but that doesn't mean it's good enough. One thing is to take your political victories, but if you're going to be a teacher, you have to sweep at your own door first. I don't think this council does. So I repeat the call for the next big message, which I am pleased that the Council of State has said that he will come along: the northern regions must have significantly greater scope and description. You have to take into account the knowledge that is actually there, take into account the knowledge that this government has paid to get, partly in use. And I hope that you can coordinate better than you've done in this message, with the responsible departments and agencies involved. I realized that the Council of State was willing to do so, but he couldn't do it this time. I hope it goes better on the next occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1971	We see a trend in how the Labour Party is debating matters. So here we see that the Workers' Party says that, well, the government has started a mapping work, they've allocated money, they're making sure it happens. Often the criticism tends to be that things don't happen, that things are usually planned, but not implemented. So here we get a little bit of credit for actually doing that. It is nevertheless inherent in the Workers' Party to criticise that not everything is mentioned in all messages. But the fact that the government is implementing is a sign that we've discussed it, seen the need for it, and then decided to get started. So that's a pretty nice criticism. It'll be a bit like the criticism I've met from other workers' party representatives from North Norway. Despite the fact that the government's going to grant almost 1 billion. kr to expand E6 in Helgeland, it gets criticism that Helgeland is forgotten, despite the fact that there is probably a sum greater than the Helgeland Labour Party teams managed to get through eight years when the Workers' Party itself put into government. Instead of rejoicing that we're doing a lot of things, things that the previous government didn't do, a try to turn it into something negative. That, I think, sends a pretty bad signal to those who want to develop business in that region, in that part of the country, which is important precisely because there are so many natural resources, which I now find the Workers' Party is increasingly saying they don't want to use. I think the decisions that some states are making are unfortunate, but there will be another debate. When I talked about North Norway, it was because it's in the northern regions. So there's a context in the rhetoric that's being used here, even though the representative Sivertsen now tried to turn it into something negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1982	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1987	I have limited speaking time, but let me start by pointing out that here the Council of State is doing the classic and completely systematic grip: moving the focus away from discussing the matter to having a debate on the debate. It is more important for the Council of State to characterise its opponents than to respond to the criticism that is being voiced. Where the council has it from that I've been talking down the county and blackpainting the situation, is completely unclear to me. I have just pointed out the economic opportunities that lie in the northern regions, which will bring growth and prosperity to the country in the future as well. This is where the future lies. What E6 Helgeland has to do with maritime safety is a little unclear to me. But since the topic came up in the debate, let me just remind you that the continuous expansion of E6 in the north lies in the national transport plan promoted under the government of Stoltenberg II, which was a journey promise for that part of the country, which this government is trying to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e1996	It's almost so I have to pinch my arm when I hear the council today. I haven't participated in many debates with him, and I think that's just as good, just because I know this I don't have the body to deal with. A government council that stands here and says that something is happening now after nothing has happened to U-864 – it's almost impossible to believe. I stood on this pulpit repeatedly in debates with right and right party representatives who hammered out that U-864 was going up anyway. It should be said that with the climate, the uplifting and upliftment that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party contributed to the West, it was not easy for the Council of State to say that all of the technical advice would ensure that the submarine was covered. What's going on? Well, now something's happening because you're building a back-up. It was controls, it was surveys all the way in the years I spent as a coastal minister. Finally, state councils came into the E6 on Helgeland – I am a saint, as some might want to hear – and claimed that now more money is being spent than the Labour Party teams on Helgeland got into for eight years. No, it was just the Labour Party teams in Helgeland that worked for eight years with the Red-Green government to get to the National Transport Plan, which today's government rules. It's almost impossible to believe that it's possible to be so – now I'm going to be careful, as a northerner – 'hook on its sails'. I don't know if it's outside, and in case I apologize, but that's all I came up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2003	In my article earlier in the debate I started by commending the case rapporteur for a good and constructive job with the message On the right course, which is the first one in ten years. Now I really understand why nothing happened under the red-green government. I think it's sad about what we're talking about right now. We are talking about a communication on maritime safety and preparedness across the coast – the important maritime nation with all the important work being done, thinking about security and preparedness, the proud nation. I am not so sure whether the actors who might have had to follow this debate are so proud of the Stortinge here today. I wish we could have more focus on what it's all about: respect for all those who do the job out there, a respect we're trying to show today. We're trying to deliver a message. It is an overall committee that has said that we want better interaction between all actors along the coast. That is what we are all about, but when the Sivertsen and the Workers' Party start to debate on individual areas – and really don't mention maritime safety in general and don't care about it – I understand why nothing happened. Once again, I am glad that we have a government that takes maritime safety and preparedness seriously, that we have a government council that has said that he should follow up with a new message that takes care of interactions between all the actors. I am pleased, and I am perhaps less proud of some co-representatives who do not show more respect for the maritime nation we are, have been and will be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2012	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2026	There is an overall committee that is behind the vote, so I have not taken the floor on the matter as such, but in connection with the proposition, two errors were discovered in the legislative text after the last time the Stortinge dealt with this. It has been proposed that this matter be corrected by the Committee, but as the rapporteur, I carried out an analysis of the presidency on the procedure for this. So I need to make some comments about this, because it is the way, as the President is aware, that Storting's Rules of Procedure say that the Committees cannot deal with matters other than those that have been forwarded to the Committee. It can be understood in such a way that proposals made in a case must be within the scope of the case, for example. not to include and correct legal provisions in one law of another law. In this case, these are corrections in the same law that is under consideration, i.e. the acquisition law. However, there is a clear definition here of what the matter is about. However, I feel that this is within the scope of what could be allowed, but I asked for the word to make this point, so that the Committee on Future Incurries, to the extent that they may arise, might take care to do so in an exemplary, formal way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2033	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2047	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2061	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. I would like to thank the Committee for a good job. [[Rapporteur: Mr van den Broek]] The technology of autonomous vehicles and ships seems to be getting too full, and the implementation of this technology will be able to go faster than many have thought. The solutions offered by this technology will cause major changes in several industries, and I think it is good that the Workers' Party focuses on this with its proposal. Autonomous vehicles and ships can become important from a climate perspective, in particular if combined with emission-free and renewable transport solutions, such as: The DNV GL concept ship ‘ReVolt’ has been shown. Technology will radically streamline car traffic and the queues in and around large cities and agglomerations. Ships will be able to sail more efficiently and accident rates could decrease. In our globalised world, where we have high mobility between borders, it is important to have close cooperation with our friends in the EU. A lot of the rule developments in this area are happening right here. I therefore hope that the Council of State will give priority to the meetings to which he is invited under the auspices of the European Union. Our transport systems depend on trust. A study conducted by Swedish researchers showed that 90 pst. traffic accidents are caused by human error. If driverless cars can contribute to increased road safety as well as increased productivity, I think it is a technology that is going to become very common in traffic in a few years' time. I can add here that this summer I drove the famous and maybe a little unhappy the car Tesla all over Europe, and in large parts it is actually possible to put it on so-called autopilot. It will then be able to swing even in the broken curves all the way up to 150 km per hour, and it will be able to adjust the speed in relation to the car in front and brake, gases, swings, signs and also change the file. This was science fiction just a few years ago, and where we are in just five to six years, it's very hard to know. I think we need to contribute politically to facilitating the development that is now coming, and at least not to combat it in any way. ITS solutions and driverless ships and cars allow more efficient use of resources while reducing the number of road accidents. The left is in favour of this technology shift, but there is also reason to look at the ethical dilemmas associated with driverless means of transport. Who has, for example, responsibility when traffic accidents occur? What choices should vehicles be programmed to make? All of this needs to be fully elucidated and discussed, as there are some challenges associated with this, not least in terms of hacking. The left is of the opinion that we must ensure that any legal obstacles to pilot projects and after each full scale implementation are resolved. This is where we have to be at the forefront. We are of the opinion that this is urgent, and there should be work to make changes now, both for shipping and for road traffic. The left is concerned with the inclusion of an autonomous vehicle strategy in the forthcoming National Transport Plan, NTP. A thorough assessment of the potential as well as the benefits and disadvantages of autonomous vehicles and ships must be made. In this context, it is necessary to clarify which infrastructure measures should be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2091	Today, I think I'm one day in the name of the 1s and the 0s, or in the name of the binary number system and the digital switch. Earlier today, we have debated the digital agenda, such as: concerns this proposal. We're facing a digital revolution, a revolution that I still think we haven't completely taken on board what actually means. Many of the posts that have been held in the Chamber today have been marked by various aspects of digital change, and there is considerable uncertainty here. We are facing a revolution that in many ways can fundamentally change the way our society is – someone compares it to when we got rid of the horse and got the car. There are other similar comparisons. The matter is not about transport and autonomous vehicles as such, although it is good that we have got a test area for autonomous ships in Trondheimsfjorden. That’s what I think is great – also that Andøya Test Center has had test areas for drones in Andfjorden for several years. I think it is good that the Council of State in its proposal for a State budget has found it possible to contribute money to cooperate with Finland in developing the E8 as an intelligent way. But part 1 of the proposal here is about industrial opportunities. Norway has a wide range of environments that are at the forefront of automation, sensors, information processing and collection, and not least related systems. We're doing this very effectively. Some examples of this are related to Kongsberg and their underwater drones, Hugin, or to Norut, operating with flying drones located both in Tromsø and Bodø, or to the AMOS Centre at NTNU in Trondheim, located far ahead of autonomous ships. And not least, today there are several small, private companies that have come a long way – some of them are even world leaders. What this proposal is about is: how to facilitate this? Because this is also part of the shift we're going to face. It is not only a green shift, but it is also a transition from an analogue society to a digital society and the opportunities that result from it for a high-tech country like Norway, with a high level of skills in the population of the workers. We want a strategy for that, and I'm disappointed that we couldn't get a majority on it. I think it's surprising. The second part of the proposal deals with the consequences – especially in the transport sector – of greater levels of digitisation, including autonomous vehicles. Then it's about how we meet and lie in front, and don't get caught by the events, but it's in front, so we can take control of development. There are aspects such as regulatory changes, responsibilities and privacy. There are aspects of the interaction between vehicle, ship and infrastructure. How will it affect society’s investment needs in road and freight terminals, etc., and how can governments control that development? Building infrastructure in this country is extremely expensive. We have a lot of needs that we still haven't solved, and if digitisation can help bring down those investment needs, so that we can do things in a smarter way, I think we should take a closer look at it. At the same time, there are challenges and opportunities here for the transport sector. I have said in some coffee company that I will not recommend my children to train themselves as either drivers or taxi drivers – not because I have something against those professions, but I think there are professions that will not be a very high demand for workers in the very near future. So I notice that a majority are concerned that this should be answered in the national transport plan. I hope you do, but I'm doubtful that you can do it. What we have asked for is a NOU, which is a broader approach, a more comprehensive analysis, a basis for decision-making. Just because so many representatives from all parties have called for knowledge and are uncertain about the future, I believe that this is a good proposal, for which there should have been a majority in the Stortinget. Government lots and their supporting lots add a very high list of what is to be included in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2106	Would the representative like to take up the proposals of the Labour Party and the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2111	Of course I'll take up those suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2116	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2121	This is a theme that we've actually been up to before, from both the Swedish Government Party and the Swedish Government – the first time with slightly raised eyebrows from some quarters because the encroachment of autonomous cars seemed to be something that belonged to the future. That was so far right, but what was then the future is today not, just six months later. Now we are in the middle of discussions on how we can best solve important challenges related to the use of technological innovation. Transport and transport are the basis for development in Norway, and the transport sector must actively address the negative impacts of this sector, both because it accounts for a high proportion of global greenhouse gas emissions, but also because it is a source of local environmental challenges. Innovative solutions and the use of technology before this sector will provide us with both a better and simpler everyday life, which will increase the competitiveness of industry, while at the same time ensuring safety and the environment. Autonomous vehicles and ships can provide significant societal benefits in terms of better use of infrastructure with smoother and tighter traffic flows, such as: is expected to release a potential of 70 pst. of the road surface. In addition, it could contribute to new opportunities for collective solutions, and it could meet expectations of greater individual needs. I'm glad to see that the government has already seen Norway in the driver's seat when it comes to the facilitation of autonomous vehicles and ships. An important step has been to establish a framework for an ITS law, and that there is a warning that there is a legal basis for the use of autonomous vehicles. It's going to put Norway first in the world when it's going to have laws that are actually adapted to this new technology. In fact, at a rapid pace before technological development, it is a very demanding task to ensure that neither legislation nor well-meaning policy measures will stand in the way of opportunities. We have to take the height of a transport sector where both mobile phones, apps and digital become an integral part – it has already become an integral part – of our transport solutions. That everyday life is here, here and now, and then a NOO statement is not the right solution, in our opinion. It's good for Norway that we have a political plural that shows commitment, and that wants Norway to be ahead of development. I expect the government to present the information that they are already in the process of doing, and the legal proposals that are already in the process will come. I am sure that it will help Norway to stay ahead and continue to lead the world in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2136	Today, when we are discussing a proposal for a representative to facilitate autonomous vehicles and ships, it says a lot about how far and how quickly technological solutions have come. A completely self-driving vehicle on the road and sea was produced just a few years ago as something that we might be able to experience once in the future, in the long run. But now we're there that it's possible because the technology has taken us there. Several tests and demonstrations are carried out using autonomous vehicles, such as: buses. In addition, the Coast Guard and the Maritime Directorate have designated Trondheimsfjorden as pilot fjord for autonomous ships. We are seeing more and more car manufacturers producing almost self-propelled cars. The only thing that some of these cars require is that there is a driver behind the steering wheel who has the overall responsibility. This means that in a short time this industry will offer us customers completely self-driving cars. Of course, this puts us on a test, but it also gives us positive opportunities in transport that we have not thought about before. That's why it's important that we are ready to adapt to the new reality of new technologies that we can take advantage of in order to achieve our transport policy objectives. I am therefore pleased that we have a government and a forward-looking Minister of Transport who, in response to the committee, has announced that the government intends to submit a bill to the Stortinget, precisely in order to provide the basis for an autonomous vehicle test system. In addition, the Council of State has given feedback that an overall overview of the government’s actions to support the piloting of new technologies in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029, presented in spring 2017. In addition, the government has set up a sample to assess how the sharing economy can provide more efficient resource use. The committee shall deliver its report by 1 February 2017. This could respond to some of the requests in the proposal that we are discussing here today. Let there be no doubt: autonomous vehicles challenge us and put us on some tests, but it will also give us enormous opportunities. It is therefore important that we cooperate well with other countries in Europe, for example. Sweden, which has launched a wide-ranging investigation to address the various issues related to wholly or partly autonomous vehicles. When we see how fast this development has gone in and now it's going in, it's going to be strange to put everything in wait for a NOO. If you're going to follow the Workers' Party and the Senter Party's proposal for a NOW, I'm afraid we'll stay on the platform and the quay, where self-driving buses and ships are running away because the technology goes much faster than a NOW will do. This is a costly time and could prevent us from taking part in the opportunities ahead of us. They want to participate in the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2153	Let me start by thanking the Workers' Party for raising this issue. We have also had a debate on this earlier, as the representative from the Right said, and we had well interpellation from both the Advance Party and SV before the summer on precisely these questions. It's like it's said: it's ripping fast, this development. I was in San Francisco myself, watching Tesla's production over there. The Committee on Transport may have been in European car factories and have done the same. It is a raging development that is taking place within the framework of intelligent logistics management, which is also something I have previously praised to the Minister of Transport for being genuinely concerned about. Let me clarify and conclude by saying that I think the proposals of the Workers' Party are good, and I think it is a loss that there is not now a majority for a public investigation of exactly this. I'll explain why. It seems to me to be reasonable, what the Council of State and the representatives have said both in reply letters and otherwise, that a NOU can prevent us from getting a fast enough progress in this area. I guess so. I have not heard anyone here in the Chamber say to the Council of State or to the Government: Stop doing everything you need to do with investigations of autonomous cars, stop taking into account the organisation of digital infrastructure in the transport policy, and stop their projects with autonomous boats. I haven't heard anyone say that. But what I think we have to take over, and which I at least take over after reading the position of the trade unions on the National Transport Plan, is that the trade unions actually admit that they do not know how development is going to proceed; and they do not have any of the model tools needed to achieve overall societal planning around this. That's when I think we, as responsible politicians at Stortinget, have to sit down and say that you know what, I actually don't think the Department and the Council of State are able to get out of their own head all the tools we need, until a national transport plan is presented. I think we need to do a long-term job to make sure that, in the next NTP process, we've taken on board what types of tools we need, developed and launched research projects to develop the forms of model tools we need, and taken over what we need, among other things. The representative Eidsheim said she was busy, that we might get a capacity extension of 70 pst. of existing roads. We get a lot more out of existing infrastructure than what's here. Here's a central point from my side. I believe that the Council of State has no desire to investigate this sufficiently, because it will be a brake on the transport policy it is pursuing. The state councils are the main driver for pushing motorways around the largest cities – against the wishes of the largest cities and against the clear professional recommendations that come from, among other things. New Climate Economy and IPCC, which fear investing in an infrastructure that is based on an old-fashioned fossil thinking and will bind us up in inefficient transport and inefficient greenhouse gas emissions. So the Council of State would say that in the future all cars will be going on electricity. But until that, it's just to say that we have to draw the government to every decision that involves adding leads for zero-emission cars and hydrogen bets. It is quite clear to all of us who have worked on this over time. But in addition, according to the International Energy Agency, the most important thing we need to do is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to achieve the climate ambitions of the government and the Storting is to improve energy efficiency. It is boundless inefficient that each individual drives his car instead of driving together, exploiting the capacity and investing in more collective solutions. So the question is, is it that we get more car sharing, and that we get digitization, is it going to lead to people driving more with car sharing? Yeah, probably, because it's cheaper. But are they going to drive more with car sharing and less with a car? Yeah, probably, because it's just as good. The whole point here is that if we don't get a proper review of all these things, in a broad monn -- and I don't believe that the government is capable of getting ahead, up to the national transport plan -- it speaks for this government and this bulk of population should have made sure that the next great and the next majority of population has the best possible basis for entering the digitalized future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2179	We are facing fantastic exciting times in the transport sector. The evolution we're seeing now, it's probably few that really thought we'd be witnessing just a few years ago. Yes, many have dreamed about it. Already in the 1950s you could see commercial films from General Motors with a car that drove itself, where people were sitting around a table inside and having a conversation while the car was driving. This is not something that has suddenly arisen, but yet many have thought that this is still something for the next generation. Now we see that evolution is going very fast, because there are a lot of developments that coincide. Materials and other materials n.e.c. Makes things cheaper, easier and easier to shape. Battery technology is falling sharply – it is easier to generate a lot of electricity. The production of renewable energy is falling sharply in price. It may not be revolutionary for Norway, which has flooded with hydropower, but it is important for global markets where clean and cheap electricity supply will be essential if electric cars are to be used. Communication technology – we are talking more and more about 5G, and 4G has already received a lot of coverage. 5G doesn't make any special difference how fast we download newspapers on your mobile phone, but it means a lot to how dolls can communicate with each other in a better way than today. When you get renewable energy, battery storage, communication technology, material technology and increasingly cheaper and better sensors, cameras and radars, something happens about how we can think about transport and transport. I think it is important that Norway is a leader, because we have many technology environments with such skills, which can easily enter this market, be with major international players, small international players, further development, making money and creating jobs. Then it's about that we have to be involved in the evolution that's going on. This is why the government has already taken a number of measures and made it possible to participate. When the Coast Guard comes to us and says they have to have a test area for autonomous ships, it's a sign that the floors have taken the point. When we make sure that today's legislation allows us to test out self-driving small buses, it is both for the public to get used to it, for politicians to see the potential, and for public society to be involved in it as part of future transport solutions. When Avinor works with remote towers, self-driving incubators, and when we're upgrading the infrastructure along the railway line, it's a sign that all the public transport stations have already begun to enter that time. We have an ITS council, which we're getting even more speed on, which is going to be involved in coordinating this. We work well with ITS Norway. It's a top industrial center under development. There's a lot going on with the actors. The idea of a NOU is too good, but it's too late, because we're already dealing with a lot of it that a NOU will look at. I think it's much better that we continue and like to speed up further the work we've been doing, and make sure that you get environments and clusters that talk naturally, rather than having someone sitting down, looking a little outside and evaluating different measures. The trends that are now in this sector are completely different from those that you've ever seen before. Tempo, speed and practical experience will be the driving force behind whether you are leading or not – not having an investigation at the bottom. The fact that the small Acando buses currently running around some places in Norway are being tested even more consistently is one of the things we are working on in connection with the national transport plan. It's the experience that will make us lead, not that we have a note at the bottom. It is just the experience of testing autonomous ships in Trondheimsfjorden and in other places, which will help give us the practical experience that makes people come to Norway. We can see that, for example. Now on the drone side, where environments come from the United States because Norway has a code in place. We have a geography and a professional environment that makes it interesting to test it out here in a different way to what they're allowed to do at home. Then you can also get jobs. Then you will see how the Railway Agency can use drones in its daily work. And there are Norwegian companies that win this. It doesn't come as a result of a NOU. It comes as a result of having actors who get a code, who have customers who demand it, and who develop the technology. When you are at the breaking point as you are now, there are completely different driving forces that take it further. The driving forces must be allowed to escape and be allowed to form, for here there is a huge dynamic that makes it useless to make five- and ten-year plans. It is necessary to ensure that the authorities, the business community and the state that buys players all the way along. I believe that we in the government have managed to do that, and that has also been part of what we have worked well with the Christian People's Party and the Left on. Then a NOU, as the bulk of the population here rejects, becomes a little bit of a siding. It would not have been a driver, it would have been a brake.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2204	Let me start by saying thank you to the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, first for the boast that we have taken up this matter, but also for a glittering post. But to my question to the Council of State: I think we fully share the idea of the possibilities this gives the nation, and that Norwegian business is well positioned. But what knowledge is there that will emerge in a NOU, which would hinder the measures that the Council of State has now said he has already taken, and those that he wants to put into action? What knowledge stands in the way of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2211	I'd rather say it's superfluous. We'd rather use the political energy, the technological energy and the human resources here to test things out than make extensive investigations. The direction here is already very clear to the government. We want to get to this. We're already doing a lot of things. What again characterizes the Workers' Party here is that they come up with suggestions to do things after the state agencies have already put forward their work on it. The working party is just too late for the ball here. That's what makes me think that what the Workers' Party is proposing will be a brake on the work that is already going on, because one gets some formal, structural frameworks that don't fit the pace of development that we're putting up with. Therefore, a NOW becomes a wrong tool. We are now working to present a national transport plan in this area, where my ambition is that the biggest chapter is just about digitisation. Then we have to make sure that we look all the way at the dynamics of business and industry, and follow it up. A NOW will not be the most suitable tool for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2220	It's obvious that me and the Council of State have a slightly different view of what a NOW actually is. While the Council of State describes it as someone who sits down and looks at what is happening in the field, I have the impression that a NOW is where we gather the leading national and, if necessary, international experts to get advice on what is good policy development in order to get the results we want, and avoid the inappropriate results. It's probably also reflected in the state council's statement that the knowledge a NOU will produce will be superfluous for what you do. It's a statement I wouldn't have dared to stand on the Great Britain's pulpit and make. Is it so to understand that the Council of State believes that the trade unions today have a good enough knowledge of what digitisation will mean for Norwegian business, for the transport sector in particular, and that it is not such that a NOU can produce any new knowledge that will take the nation further?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2227	I hope we have more knowledge in two years than we have today, but a NOW is not necessarily the way one manages to generate the most new knowledge. That's the point. We're going to be a driving force in making sure that development takes place, but we're also going to make sure that we test it out along the way. That's where the workers' party's love for investigations -- out infinitely, often -- is a problem, and one's not in and gives a accelerator just because one's saying one's going to have a big investigation. The point is that there are constantly many small and large investigations all the way, not within the framework of a NOU, but by the fact that there are actors coming to us who say: we want to test out autonomous vehicles. Okay, how do we do that? Not through a major investigation, but through practical problem solving. That's what we're going to do, and that's where we see the Road Service, the Railways, the Coastal Works, the Avinor and all the other people we're working with, all the way to find new knowledge, but they're implementing it much faster than a NOU would have given the opportunity. So this is just about the tempo. A NOW could give us a lot of new knowledge, but I think we'll get even more new knowledge by organizing our work the way we've planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2232	The love we have in the Workers' Party for investigations is because we are committed to having a knowledge-based approach to problems and not taking things on their heels as they arise, because we believe that society is created by also setting a framework for development and not allowing development unilaterally to create the society we want. It's unclear to me why a NOU will slow down the pace. It's probably about how to rig the work with a NOU, it's about the framework conditions and what order you issue, and not least what resources you add to the work. In its speech, the Council of State was concerned that one of the advantages of Norway was just legislation. That legislation has been developed in order to be in the forefront, and just a NOU will be able to say something about what kind of legislation we need to meet the changes we see in the future, and what we need to do to prevent unwanted development. Doesn't the Council of State see that it can be a knowledge that can be important to have, or is that knowledge superfluous?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2247	It's completely misleading when the representative Sivertsen gives the impression that those who don't want a NOU are against knowledge. It's more about the format and the circumstances in which you need to put that knowledge into practice. My approach there is that we get to a lot more by being light on the foot, and that when there are actors that say that here are the potential possibilities, we can turn around and not say as the Workers' Party often does: we wait for a NOW, and then there's a big message to come, and then we actually start implementing things. That's what's the significant difference in the way today's government acts, and the way we saw the red-green act. There are a lot of things that have been investigated up and down here, so it's true when the Workers' Party has said in many debates that we, the Workers' Party, have planned this too. The problem is simply that going beyond the plan – efficiency – there is a lack of it. Then we have had a different approach, where we do not go for a Norwegian public investigation, but one can say it is a Norwegian public action plan, where we turn around and make sure that when the actors come and say that if Norway is to lead an autonomous vehicle, we have to make sure that we have a law that makes it possible – then we are already in the process of making, not investigating, that law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2254	I think this adjournment to investigate is a little special, and I really think the arguments of the Council of State are not good enough. I'm not close to claiming that the Council of State is against knowledge, just because he's not for an investigation. But that he thinks it's best to gather the most knowledge into himself and carry out the projects he thinks are good, without making sure that the technical basis is good enough, we've seen it through the railway reform, we've seen it through the road reform, we've seen it through several other reforms that come, toll reforms that go with minimal investigation, and – you could say – a section or two in a roll-out proposition about spring. I believe the verdict of history on some of the projects being carried out is that they were not good. But my question is a simple one to the Council of State, and I would encourage him to answer, because it is the same thing that the representative Sivertsen asked, but did not receive an answer. It's: does the Council of State think that the subjects are up-to-date on digitisation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2261	I answered that and said no, I hope they are not when we talk in two years' time. A NOW will be able to give us knowledge because you have smart people who want to sit and work on it, but I think you'll get it even faster in place and implemented faster if you do it in a different format. So here we're not talking about whether we're going to look forward or whether we're going to acquire new knowledge. But is the best way to do it in the context of a NOW? Then my answer is clearly no. It's getting too stiff. I also record that this is where the difference is between both today's government and the majority, and the government that the representative Holmås represented. He himself discusses this with toll reform. Yes, the need for a toll reform was therefore mentioned in both NTPs the red-greens rushed after, without any material impact being considered. We're concerned that we're actually going to implement. That's why we make sure that we work, not collecting information internally in the department, but working closely with the ITS Council, with ITS Norway, with all the different technology environments in Norway and abroad that we can get in touch with, just to see how we can test out technology, how we can make sure that Norway is leading. A NOW will not increase the pace of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2268	I'm not sure of the answer, because I think the Council of State is avoiding the core question of the subjectates, but I'm leaving it. What's the whole thing, in my opinion, is that it's now broken in both the transport and energy sectors. There are infringements in the transport and energy sectors. We see major changes, from internal combustion engine to electric motor and other vehicle sources, and digitisation, and similar in the power sector, where there is a breach. There's a lot of uncertainty about the oil price and the kind of things in the time that's coming. The question then is: what does the national transport plan do? It's good when the council says he's going to write a lot about digitization, but my question is, is he going to do a stress test for all the road projects that are planned and for which he's been interested? Is he going to carry out a stress test based on how digitisation will impact on these dietary/benefit projects in terms of climate targets? It's the lacmus test of whether the policy is up-to-date.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2275	Well, here's what it's really about. SV – and we also see the Workers' Party more and more places – want to use this to try to stop new and important infrastructure projects in the belief that new technologies will make people no longer need roads. The buses and cars to drive in the future are going to be emission-free. My prediction is that we are going to comply with the Paris agreement quite gallantly, simply because industry and industry are now making sure that the vehicles on the road in 2030 are free of emissions. What makes us going to have a faster phase-out here than we've had before is just that you're going to have more autonomy, you're going to be able to have more car sharing services, you're going to be able to expand the collective solutions, which makes people no longer need their own car the same way. So when you go into a imaging service, you're going to be able to phase out what you have faster and use new technology, which means that technology development is going to go much faster. But those vehicles still need a road to drive on. So even though SV is never so much against asphalt on our soil, there's going to be a need for more asphalt, and there's going to be a need for more rails, because people will still want to travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2281	No, no, no. It's not that the world is being saved by running all of it on electricity, if it leads to incredibly much more energy use. For the greater energy demand, the more difficult it becomes to carry out the energy transformation that is needed. It is established by the International Energy Agency, it is established by the Climate Panel, it is even established by the government-supported Commission New Energy Finance. Then it's simply the thing that, at the moment you create more asphalt around the big cities, the demand for energy increases. So energy consumption and energy demand are increasing. When the state council then turns this into such a kind of classic SV-Fremskritsparti-question – SV is opposite all the ways, we are very for, and what they're really trying to do is stop – it shows that he doesn't take in knowledge. Because if the need for capacity is significantly reduced by the digitisation that is taking place, and Solvik-Olsen has not intended to give it any consequence on the type of road projects to be developed, then it is a knowledgeless rather than knowledge-based policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2286	It's nothing new to get characteristics that way, but here one first has to decide. If you are against the road, it shows that even if SV only gets electric cars in Norway, they will still be against the car. That's what the representative Eidsvoll Holmås here says. But if the representative Eidsvoll Holmås goes into YouTube, the representative Eidsvoll Holmås can see my post at the Public Transport Conference where I spend 20 minutes on just this. For my vision is that what we're going to do in Norway is just to make sure that people choose collective solutions more, using new technology. So the representative Eidsvoll Holmås gives a completely distorted picture of what really is my goal. Therefore, we should perhaps have a NOU, so that Eidsvoll Holmås could see a little how the government thinks when we present a big message then in the next big period. But my goal is not to have asphalt everywhere around the cities, and very many of the road projects that Eidsvoll Holmås now argue against are not in the cities, but between the cities, because we want people to be able to have more mobility and get to the neighboring cities or towns faster, out into the districts. Then you need better roads, even if SV doesn't like them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2291	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2298	Right around the corner, one of the biggest transport trends in history is waiting for us. Just like the engine replaced the horse, we now see that the technology will replace the driver. Smartphones have provided new business opportunities, and Low Assets companies that do not own the products but sell services such as AirBnB and Uber are growing. Suddenly it may be cheaper to subscribe to a self-driving car than to own it. Self-driving cars are going to revolutionize our cities with fewer cars, maybe 10-20 pst. of today's vehicle park and fewer parking spaces on the street. Self-driving vehicles seem to have all the answers to what we as transport politicians are asking when we are going to deal with the National Transport Plan for Spring. If only it had been that simple! With opportunities, there are also new challenges. Transport is becoming cheaper and more accessible, and the consumption of transport services will increase. Several travellers, several vehicle kilometres on the streets and more queues are a possible development. There are questions we should discuss and think about. The government has started legal work to allow a probationary system, and that is good. But I wish they were able to have more thoughts in their heads at the same time. Facilitating autonomous vehicles is not just about drawing up a law for a testing scheme. It's about so much, much more; it's about how the trend break will affect society and our transport system. I don't think politicians are best suited to reflect on how we make society the most equipped for new tasks. To believe that regulation alone makes our society ready to accept this technology is naive and short-sighted. What happens when we go from trial plan to implementation? What do we do when no test organisation is responsible anymore? What about the ownership of data collected? How do we deal with mixed transport, and what does public transport look like in this picture? How can we play on Norway's advantage in this matter? In the emergence of autonomous vehicles, there may be considerable opportunities for the high-tech environments in Norway, both to help develop new solutions and to produce parts for the future automotive industry. The train departs from the platform while the passive industrial policy of the Right Party and the Advance Party remains. Earlier today, exactly an hour ago, the Council of State said to this pulpit that from the opposition we should not do super-simple research. Governments here have the possibility of gaining broad knowledge in the field. Will the Council of State join us? No, no, no. Just that proves that the Council of State is perhaps the most concerned with rhetoric and not with actual knowledge and politics. I still think there is a need to think more broadly about this topic. I just think it's so bad government parties think they already know enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2315	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2329	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2338	Equally fair and equitable distribution of health resources is one of the most important issues we deal with in health. It is therefore gratifying that we support cross-politically under the priority criteria and the principles underlying the three criteria of utility, resource and seriousness. There will always be a gap between what a society has resources to implement, and what is medically possible, and expectations. Health is a vulnerable theme both when it hits you and your loved ones. That's why it's important, and it's been important that we've had broad discussions and got a good anchoring. It is our responsibility to adopt the principles of priority and the overall framework of resources for healthcare. That means that the Storting must be conscious of its responsibilities and give decision-makers a back cover for the decisions they make, based on the decisions we make. Then I would also like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and the good input we received during the hearing. Norway was early in adopting priorities, and the adjustments we adopt today are a continuation of the work of the Wage Committees. The Committee endorses the Norheim Committee's objective of maximum good years of life for all, fairly distributed, as well as the principle of sharing at social and clinical level, and that there is room for professional judgement. The Committee considers that a strong public health system is a prerequisite for the success of prioritisation. During the consultation, health establishments called for clear priority criteria which would give them the legitimacy to give priority to the sick. With such a well-established basis and broad consensus as we have in this matter in a cross-political context, it commits us, as politicians, to have the priority criteria at the bottom when we express ourselves in individual matters. Then I hope that we can balance what we adopt here today, with the ombudsman role and responsibility for constructive criticism that we also have responsibility for as elected representatives. It is, and has been, an explicit objective to have common priority criteria for the whole service. Today, they apply to specialist healthcare, medicines funded by public health and to the interaction of the permanent medical practitioner with the specialist health service. The Committee supports the proposal to set up a priority committee for municipal health and care services. The Committee also considers that there is a need for more knowledge about the effectiveness of prevention and how funding affects priority. The Committee recognises that there will still be a need for political action to lift weak patient groups such as chroniclers, those with habilitation and rehabilitation needs, as well as mental health and drug abuse, but points out that the priority criteria should be applied regardless of the patient group. If we are to succeed in achieving a fairer distribution of health resources, priority work needs to be better anchored. It has to be part of health education, it has to be incorporated into the professional guides and it has to be a topic of professional discussion and management. Transparency is important for legitimacy. Individual reimbursement has acted as an important safety net. The majority supported the changes in the general evaluation of new medicinal products with evidence of efficacy and the possibility to negotiate prices. It is important to clarify that we have been assured that patients who do not benefit from other treatment should be taken care of in the follow-up work, so that the safety net is maintained for those for whom it was intended. The Labour Party chooses not to promote its own proposals or to support others, for us it is strategically important and wise that we thus demonstrate that we stand together on the criteria and principles of priority in health. Where we disagree, it comes out in the notes. Among other things, we had: expectation of a clearer problematisation and discussion of the impact of the private health market on priorities. The government considered that the funding mechanism was irrelevant to priority, but it became clear during the consultation that there is a link between pricing the different activities and how it affects the activity and priorities of different patient groups. We also see that health businesses are struggling to meet the expectations of a decision recommending the use of new medicines or treatments involving major economic upliftment and expensive medicines. I'll come back to that in later articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2359	First, I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the rapporteur for a good cooperation and a clean process around the matter. The Committee broadly agrees when we now adopt the Communication of Priorities. We agree that the most important thing, which are the criteria and principles behind them, is to remain as stated in the government's communication. This promises a clear debate on priorities in the future as well. The Committee has not been tempted to adopt specific arrangements for individual groups or diagnostics. This setting is basically at the overall level, and in this context, it's also where we're going to be. Priority is given to health care every day, but professionals must and must have the last words in the priority decisions. That's what we're getting behind today. We're going to give back coverage for decisions taken, while we're going to be clear on the criteria that are applied, and that's what we are here and now. At the same time, there should be room for politicians to draw out single diagnosis and patients' stories, which are related to our ombudsman role. But it can't be that simple stories and anecdotal evidence determine how we politicians dispose of our common health resources. There are enough good purposes in health care, we can't all give priority. Priority is given to priorities, priorities and priorities. Most politicians like the first best, but this is part of the daily life of Norwegian health professionals, and it is also an important part of the health business’s task, namely to give priority to who should be treated and who should not be treated. This Communication clarifies the principles governing the prioritisation of healthcare. We've spent a long time finding out about these, especially the health crisis has been discussed and abandoned. We think that's right. It can quickly carry the wrong place if you put too much emphasis on the value of treatment for the individual patient. This is all about human dignity. Man must never become a means and always be a goal. That's why we're also critical that a person's ability to work should play a role in the calculation – do we accept that a person's ability to work is ahead of a performer when it's about the same operation? No, we don't. We believe that the way in which healthcare capacity is distributed should be determined by its use, resources and seriousness. The extent to which patients receive treatment should be determined by the benefit of treatment, the cost of treatment and the severity of the disease. Priority is always difficult, especially when it comes to prioritying down. You have to respect that there are health professionals in this every day. We respect this best by being clear, as we are in this setting. We must also be in the further priority debate. This matter is not about how much resources we're going to spend on health in Norway, it's about how the resources we're actually planning are used. If the objective is the best possible health in Norway, it is not intended to maximise its use in health. The main areas for improving health in Norway are outside healthcare: a good school, an inclusive working life, a healthy diet and active leisure with access to natural experiences are important ingredients for achieving a healthy population. But no matter how much we prevent, we can expect the number of healthcare users to increase. Looking at population development and age structure, there is reason to believe that priorities will be even harder in the future. Access to resources will be limited in terms of both staff and money. If we do not succeed in prioritizing, it will undermine the legitimacy of healthcare in the population. We're going to create the patient's healthcare. It must also have confidence among its citizens. If treatment is not safe when it is needed, and at the same time if it is perceived as a matter of priority, it will over time undermine the emergence of a publicly funded healthcare service. But if we are able to live up to what we decide today, it is a good basis for a safe and secure health service in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2378	Choosing is not always easy, but throughout our lives we make our own choices – and sometimes others choose for us. Choices are good to have: the freedom to choose, to think for yourself, to choose what feels right for yourself – especially when it comes to the most important thing in life, namely health. The choice of doctor, treatment, rehabilitation and where to seek treatment are important elements of the patient’s healthcare, as this government builds stone by stone. Sometimes, when health isn't the way it should, everything can suddenly be very serious. When people experience serious illness, life is put on hold. Few know how it is felt to be told that you have a disease with the probability of soon fatal outcome. It's hard to get into someone's place in such a setting. It might have to be experienced to know what you're talking about. Feedback I have received shows that most people, after such a message, cling to the hope of a miracle that can improve the prediction and extend their lives. That's understandable. When researching new but expensive life-prolonging or curative medicines or treatments is made by pharmaceutical companies, it is also understandable that patients want access to them, but who should determine who is receiving what treatment, and on what basis? Prioritisation challenges have probably never been greater than they are now. We're getting more, we're getting older, and treatment opportunities are increasing. That's good, but it also makes the gap between opportunities and resources increase. Daily health professionals are at the heart of these tough decision-making challenges about who is put in line first for organ transplantation, who is to be included in a research programme, or who is being helped first in serious and extensive emergency situations. I have to say that I admire them, the employees of our health care system. We cannot choose whether or not to give priority – the priorities take place in any case. But we can choose the principles that will underpin these decisions. That's what we're doing today. Today, the Storting is taking a position on the principles on which health care priorities are based, which are in line with the values of health policy, which ensure economic and political sustainability, and which provide health professionals with back coverage and legitimacy for difficult decisions. Without common principles of priority, the objectives of equal access and justice will be difficult to achieve. Therefore, the government wants health care measures to be assessed on the basis of three priority criteria: a utility, a resource and a severity criterion. These must be evaluated together, and it is proposed that decisions be taken at the clinical, group, administrative and political level. I am, as Progress Party politicians most, very concerned that every human being is unique. I am therefore pleased that the message states that there must also be room for individual priority reasons. A derogation scheme is proposed for specific small groups of patients with very severe conditions where there is often no good evidence of treatment. I am pleased that we are able to be responsive, thoughtful and flexible so that we do not place all people in our own diagnostic boxes. What also delights me is that the principles of priority apply throughout the healthcare system, not only in the specialist healthcare system. The government proposes to set up a sample to address priority issues in municipal health care and assess which principles of priority may be relevant. Serious issues in which health and care services are regularly addressed are, for example: trials on life-long treatment of the elderly in nursing homes. Taking right decisions when the lives of people with disabilities go to the end – decisions that take into account their self-determination – is very complex and demanding. Finally, the Government proposes an increased mandate for the Agency to assess the financing of medicinal products in line with the principles of priority. It is a joyous innovation that means that medicinal products that benefit large patient groups will be able to be used more quickly than today. Health care priorities are about allocating resources to some areas and actions rather than others. To achieve the right priorities, a set of instruments is needed, for example: decision-making systems, legislation, technical standards and guides. It is therefore gratifying that this communication has been well received by the Hearing Officers and has broad support in a comprehensive political landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2406	Who will get help first in an emergency department when the queue is long and there comes in someone with stomach pain, and a young girl comes in with self-damage, and yelling if help is greater than scratched in the arm? These can often be forgotten in the blue light. Or when to give priority to tomorrow's operating program: who will be allowed to be on that program, and who will have to go home and come back in a while? Health professionals prioritise every day in Norwegian hospitals. Important decisions shall be made both frequently and promptly. Experience and competence are important. The same is true of the individual assessment. Every patient is unique. Good prioritisation tools will help each individual health worker. Good priorities are the basis for a sustainable health service that ensures the equivalence and security of its citizens. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Storting is behind the headlines and the main criteria in the prioritisation message, Values in the patient's healthcare. Good prioritisation tools provide health professionals with back coverage in the important job they do. Proper priority is also given to equivalency in patient treatment. It should not be that, as a patient, you need to have a large and powerful patient organisation in your back in order to get the right and the help you need. Clear priorities help to prevent own resources, power and randomness from leading to unfair treatment. Persons with chronic diseases shall not be overlooked. Scary elderly people must be taken care of. People with rare disorders and diseases need help when they need it. I would also like to highlight in particular some of our little ones, who often lose in the fight for priority – despite the fact that there are political governance signals that say something else – namely children and young people who are struggling with mental challenges. The waiting lists do not go down and the priorities may be asked for. The financing mechanism underpinning the current hospital provides an important premise for the development of the specialist health service. Intervention-driven funding was intended as a system for the allocation of financial resources and not as a prioritisation tool. In the 2007 Health DG input-driven funding report, there is concern that the focus on the economy at the hospital level is on priority and quality management. This is exactly what the prioritisation message should do and work against. What the hospital serves should not govern the healthcare provided to patients. Therefore, a minority consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left Government are asking for a comprehensive review of today's funding system for hospitals. The economy shall not manage the healthcare provided to Norwegian patients. Therefore, patients are served by a review of today’s funding mechanism. We need to ensure equivalent services, and that the patient's needs are in focus. The prioritisation message has been given the name ‘Values of the patient’s healthcare service’. Both the prioritisation tools we are working on and the organisation of services must reflect good and solid values that take into account the individual patient in the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2423	Does the President assume that the representative should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2428	I will. I'm addressing the proposal that the Christian People's Party is behind with the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2433	Then the representative, Ms. Olaug V. Bollestad, brought up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2438	The centre party joins the three proposed priority criteria and the principle underlying this message. Norway has been at the forefront of health priorities for many years. Nevertheless, even more conscious priorities are needed in the Norwegian health system. Despite pay I and II, patients in Norway are not prioritised only according to their needs. People in the districts with a long road to medical care are less likely to be helped in the event of an acute illness. Women with higher education are referred more easily to specialist assistance than women with lower education. Patients with disorders and mental disorders have a shorter life expectancy than other patients, and have thus far received less health care than patients with somatic diseases. The prioritisation message refers only to hospital priorities. That is the greatest weakness of your message. The highest priority in today’s Health Norway is the deprioritisation of public health and primary health services. In particular, the Norheim Selection raises three areas to which one should bet more on when it comes to prevention. There is inactivity, dropbuilding in the elderly and depression in young people. The center party thinks that prevention in general, and these areas in particular, must be lifted for years to come. The greatest scarcity in health services is often not money, but access to skills and professionals, and a special shortage of specialists. How the recruitment of medical specialists is distributed is therefore decisive for the prioritisation of patient groups. When there are very few geriatars in the Norwegian health system in relation to the need, it is also difficult to get the right priority for this patient group. We do not get a good priority in Norwegian health services without a strong public health service. In the long term, the government’s privatisation line – with more choice and free treatment options – is a threat to fair priorities. Opening up for a higher payment for a higher standard is the beginning at the end of a fair public health system for everyone, regardless of background. Good health priorities are based on openness. Therefore, the cost of treatment must be kept secret. When the bulk of population is rocking this, fair prioritization will never happen. Health care priorities must be based on the acceptance and understanding of the population. It's about trust. When healthcare providers operate with secret prices and secret discounts, this trust is weakened. The secret price of medicinal products undermines the democratic principle and principle of transparency, and thus the ethical basis of the Norwegian health service. Decision-making forums and the Medical Products Agency are now given increased responsibility for health priorities. The centre party believes it is necessary to consider whether decision-making forums are being removed from health care agencies and placed under the administration, and ask the government to file a case on the arrangements for this. Because we see that hidden priorities are now taking place in health care agencies as a consequence of the priorities of the decision-making forum. So one is kind of equidistant. The centre party believes that one also needs a broad evaluation of how today’s funding of hospital services and the increased ISF component introduced by the government affect priorities in treatment provision, on which the representative of Bollestad was involved. We also believe that the use of classified property can be a measure, a supplement, that can underpin priority. For example, heavy addicts should be have been exempted from belongings of the healthcare system. We are sceptical about removing the general scheme when medicines cannot be written on blue prescription, and also think that individual reimbursement schemes must be passed on. Both of these schemes are a safety net for some patients with chronic disease. We also ask for a more thorough assessment of the level of alternative costs, which in the message – rather randomly, according to the Central Party’s view – is set at NOK 275 000 per good year of life. We ask the government to initiate such an assessment work. This message does not ensure the right priority in the health care system. It is the implementation of this message and the health care criteria that ensure, and only this can give an open and fair prioritisation in the Norwegian healthcare system. It is not enough to stress that it is a responsibility to pay for this, and the top responsibility lies with the Minister of Health and Care. In conclusion, I wish him every success in that work, and with that, I present my proposals to the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2463	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2469	The left also adheres to the criteria and priorities laid down in this message. Norway has established a good tradition of priorities in the health sector. Wages and salaries committees I and II have been important and are also at international level in a debate on priorities. We can only look at our Nordic neighbouring countries, which have not reached the level of the Norwegian priority debate. The Norheim Committee follows this up, and I would like to say on this occasion that the sample challenges both us politicians and the citizens related to the debate on health benefits and health losses. It is a debate that is needed, because what we are discussing here on priorities in the health sector is, after all, a lot about democratic anchoring and how we dispose of funds, and it requires a debate beyond the landfill. It is necessary for the population to be involved in understanding the priorities that need to be addressed. Of course, there's money at stake, but it's also about anchoring the values on which we base the priorities. For the left, we talk a lot and often about public health, prevention and early intervention, but it is a little subordinated to a priority debate that is so much about the specialised health sector. We're using over 140 billion. Dr. in the hospital sector in Norway per year now, and it is very much about repairing, while we rarely take the discussion on how we could have avoided so much repair, and on the benefits of early deployment. I am therefore pleased that there will be a follow-up to this prioritisation message, which therefore addresses the primary care and the local health service's responsibility for priorities. In the draft budget for next year, we see that this is also a challenge for us nationally. When the government proposes deposits in a proportion of the municipalities, it is a form of ringing from Stortinget, which one wants the municipalities to give priority to. We need to have an ongoing debate on both the relationship between Stortinget and the municipalities – where the responsibility lies – and on how to use the money between the different actors. Some of the priorities – which the professionals have to do for us, for the big community and for the politicians – require that there are good systems. In the case of training systems, and in the case of ICT systems, the systems must also meet the individual employees who are required to make the priorities. That training is therefore important. It is also important to respect priorities and accept that one has based those priorities on some values, but also that sometimes the economy will have an impact on them. Several representatives have been involved in transparency. It is also an important part of this debate, especially if we are now going in a direction where we are keeping more and more secrets around more expensive medicines. Then it becomes difficult for the patient groups to deal with who is getting access to the most expensive medicines in front of others — perhaps first? – and what's the reason they get it. Another part of this is that it is becoming increasingly difficult for the individual doctor to justify, for example: why a patient is required to change medications when the price is taken out of the argument. We have to keep the transparency tab high for many reasons, not only economic but also professional. For democratic reasons too, it is important that we provide maximum insight, and that also applies to different patient groups. One of the discussions that the Norheim Committee did not take is the relationship to self-payments. We currently have self-employment rates of 1 and 2 in the health sector, but we also have individual reimbursements: we have had tax deduction schemes, other special deductions and income schemes for those with high sickness costs. It's also part of the justice debate that we have to take, that we're not done as a result of the message we're discussing here today, and that we have to take up again and discuss continuously. I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2486	No, I guess we're not at the center of the universe right now. There is no direct line between priority debates in the Storting and the use of resources in health services. The use of resources in health services is at least as much influenced by financial instruments, technological and medical developments, VG redeployment and professional policy changes as by public spending and spill-overs. Furthermore, the increasing privatisation of healthcare services is in direct conflict with debates such as this. It draws the carpet away from the democratic basis for a priority debate. Nevertheless, it is fundamental, as we still have a large public health service, the objective of which is equivalent health services for all, that health care priorities are democratically anchored. If there are no priorities, the priorities will be on their own, where the strongest and most talkative groups will receive the best health services and not necessarily those who need it the most. It is still the case that weak patient groups such as chroniclers, those in need of rehabilitation or rehabilitation, patients with mental illness, those with abuse problems or the elderly do not receive satisfactory health care. It is still the case that prevention and health promotion measures, which have the greatest impact on ‘most of the best possible years of life for all’, are being lowered. That is why, in EN, we will continue our inexhaustible fight for good kindergartens with enough competence to meet the development and health needs of the smallest, for better schools where both good food and adequate physical activity are prioritised, for good growth environments where it is safe to go and ride to school and work, and for good welfare arrangements for all. All these measures are most likely to have a greater impact on public health than many health services. But, as I said, the priorities adopted in this room are not given direct influence in the clinic. Critics of previous priority processes have often pointed out that criteria have been difficult to translate into clinical practice. One must experience the criteria or principle as valuable and helpful in everyday life; they must relate to the values clinicians recognize in, whether they are central Norwegian welfare values or the ethical principles of the professions. In addition, one must take a clear lead in overseeing political choices. The fact that something is unclear is not helpful when allocating large health resources. And finally, the priority message and debate has no value if the values and criteria are not involved in reforms for leadership, organisation and funding. In an ideal value, health services should be controlled directly by parent values, but not today. One might describe it as a form of value mosaic, where there may be great leaps between values expressed in priority messages and professional ethics on the one hand and in funding systems and organisation on the other. SV therefore supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. We find it a little strange that no more parties do the same thing, because the economic perspectives in this, if there's a fear, are back into the criteria where they're going to go right home. We will also support several of the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2501	It is gratifying that the Committee has adhered to the proposed priority criteria and principles on the basis of which the notification was submitted to the Stortinget on 3 June. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President-in-Office and the shadow rapporteurs who have been in the committee for a very good job, which I believe has been a prerequisite for such broad support for the communication. The message was given the name ‘Values of the patient’s healthcare’. It's a very good name, and it's not randomly chosen. The government's goal is just to create the patient's healthcare. In the Communication, the Government promotes proposals for priority principles that will contribute to a fair and equivalent access to healthcare and give legitimacy to difficult decisions taken by healthcare professionals every day. The priority criteria proposed by the Wage II Committee were broadly accepted. Nevertheless, the specific nature of these criteria is often unclear. I'll give you two examples. The first concerns the implications of the criteria for the evaluation of the introduction of new medicinal products and methods of health care. How much is a willing to pay for a method? What role should seriousness play – in concrete terms? What about age and rarity? Another ambiguity is who is responsible for which priority decisions. What is the responsibility of the service, and what are the responsibilities of the Storting and the Government? The questions are many, and we have not always had clear answers. We therefore believe that we must clarify the principles, roles and responsibilities and anchor such clarification democratically in the Grand Duchy. One of the main challenges in healthcare is that opportunities and desires always exceed the resources available to us. In practice, it means that we cannot choose whether to give priority, but what we can choose is what principles should underpin these decisions. Without such principles, priorities will be more random. Prioritisation principles must be based on and in line with the health value base. Values like equality, justice and human dignity are central. The Communication describes the relationship between the value base of healthcare, the principles and the means of prioritisation. The Government proposes three priority criteria: utility, resource and seriousness. In addition, other proposed criteria, systems for weighing the criteria and cost limits are discussed. In total, these proposals constitute principles of priority for healthcare. To say something about how to prioritize, we need to know who will decide what. Priority decisions are taken everywhere, including: in its meeting with the patient, through the Health Ministry’s governance signals to the health regions of the annual mission documents, when the Stortinget determines how much of the social resources to be allocated to the health and care services in the annual government budgets and, in particular, the ongoing priority decisions are taken by managers and governs at the administrative level in the health and care services. Some believe that the notification is too much about medicines and new technologies. I would therefore like to stress that an important message in the communication is precisely that the principles of priority are to be included to a greater extent than at present in the basis of decisions taken at administrative level. Healthcare managers have a significant responsibility for providing patients with fair and equivalent access to healthcare. It is proposed that health regions should facilitate a clear understanding by management training of their responsibility for operating in line with the principles of priority. The notification also discusses the systems we have for the financing and evaluation of medicinal products in healthcare. There are some weaknesses in today’s system that can prevent the achievement of drug policy objectives and respect the principles of priority. I am concerned about ensuring the patient quick access to effective medicines. The solution is to create a fair system that works as quickly as possible. The proposals in the prioritisation communication are just about that. In sum, the proposals increase the achievement of objectives in the field of medicinal products with equivalent and faster access to efficient, quality and lower-priced medicinal products. So to the municipalities: no own investigation has been carried out to assess the principles of priority in municipal health and care services. We therefore propose to set up a public sample to look at the priority issues of health and care services in municipalities. Through the proposals in this Communication, the Government invites the Stortinget to adopt a health care priority system that is economically and politically sustainable and in line with the health care value base.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2535	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2540	Operationalising the priority criteria will be a challenge. The clinicians we've met have been very clear that they need better decision support, and a professional environment that we've been looking for says that it's especially the professional supervisors they're looking for. So now the real question is, as the Norheim Committee has also promised: is it possible to prioritise among the professional supervisors, so that one can give priority where we get the most effect in relation to where there might be the greatest deviation from practice, where there is the greatest health benefit, but not least that we can get them out? The situation today is that a lot of hospitals have to make their own, waiting for it to be prioritised from the Health Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2545	One of the operational approaches proposed in the Communication is that the Health Directorate should also base the principles of prioritisation in its work on counselling and guidance – it should be reflected in that work. I am well aware of the challenge of implementing existing guidelines and guides, which is also something that we are now continuously working with, among other things. through a large project related to the variation in health care, the development of health atlas and the introduction of package pathways, all of which are tools for implementing good practice in line with health care priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2550	One of the other challenges faced by the minister, who really challenges it with equal access, is that when the decision-making forum recommends a treatment that is expensive, which includes many patients, and it comes in the middle of a budget year – how does the Council of State think we should ensure that we are able to equip the hospitals so that they can have this offer to patients in an equivalent way? It's cancer medicine, which we've recently decided on, it's cell transplantation for MS patients -- there's a lot of big groups who, when they see this being recommended, have expectations. It's a huge challenge for hospitals to meet it, and also for us as big-time politicians. Does the Council of State have a solution for how we can do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2555	I am very concerned that it is the Stortinge that determines the financial framework for hospitals, and that is within the framework of the principles and methods of prioritisation. That is why I also disagree with the Central Party's suggestion that the decision in the Decision Forum should be moved from the health regions to the administration. It is precisely through the decision-making forum that the decision is there, as is also the responsibility for financing, that the priority is operationalised within the framework set by the Stortinget. And then the Storting has to be aware, and the government has to be aware, that when a person assesses how much resources one puts into hospitals, not only demographic development, but also factors that affect costs, such as the cost of medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2560	I would like to congratulate the Council of State on getting rid of this important matter in Stortinget, because if you disagree on some things, it is an incredibly important matter. There's a lot of work ahead, and I want the Council of State to be happy to implement it. I have one question that we have written about in the comment, and it depends on the seriousness and utility of the message to be measured in quality-adjusted years of life, abbreviated QALY. Both the Norheim and Magnussen selections assumed that group-level priority decisions had an alternative cost of NOK 275 000. For example, we read. that the Health Directorate has operated with an alternative cost of NOK 588 000 in a 2012 report – almost twice as high. My question is whether the Minister of Health has a comment on how one has reached NOK 275 000, and whether one will evaluate that limit afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2567	It has been achieved through the work of both the Norheim Committee and the Magnussen Committee, and it is based on both Norwegian and international assessments and studies. That is why we have chosen to use this message. There could always be a discussion about how high the alternative cost should be, but both the Norheim Committee and the Magnussen Committee are composed of very competent people in this field, who also base many of their assessments on both national and international studies. Alternative costs are about finding a limit on what can be shown where the effects of the same means could be better achieved by using them elsewhere in the healthcare system, and there are quite large studies behind this figure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2572	During the hearing, we heard a new concept, ‘burch bureaucracy’. It was a health economics professor, Bjarne Robberstad, who said that. It was linked to the minutes of the Decision Forum, which for the first time were out of print, and to the prices of medicinal products. In addition to this, there is an ongoing conflict of transparency related to health business meetings, decision-making forums, which are fewer and fewer. The power is concentrated in these systems, and the last thing I heard now is that Health South-East wants to appoint the leader and Vice-Chairman of the User Council itself. This suggests that users become a type of audience and not real users who make actual decisions. What does the Minister of Health think about the development of the system, which I was a little bit into my post here too? How far is he willing to leave the decisions to the economic operators in the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2578	I believe that there is still an opportunity to look at improvements in the way the decision-making forum works. One of the improvements, which was made quite early, was to appoint a user representative to sit in the Decision Forum. I think that was a wise choice, which creates more transparency and more user involvement. The question of transparency about prices is a very difficult one, because I perceive that there is a broad political consensus about the principle that transparency is the best. Our challenge is that if, as an individual nation, we choose to let the principle govern all other relationships, we will get into a situation where the principle is going to mean that there are treatments that will benefit our patients where we do not get a price that will enable us to put it into practice. It's a consequence of what I'm not willing to do, and that's why we have to work on this from an international perspective and not just a national perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2585	The criteria that we are discussing today will have an impact on all levels of health services. Various researchers in this field, particularly with regard to ethics around this – Norheim, Førde, Solheim, Solbakk and Westin – point out that organisation and governance are important for priority. Already now on Thursday, the Council of State will be handed over a new NOU, the Women's Land report is ready. I assume that the Council of State Bent Höie has a certain overview of it. But completely independent of overview or not: will these priority criteria affect further work on the Women's Country Selection and, if so, in what way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2590	I believe that this Communication provides a basis for both prioritisation principles and systems that are independent of the changes made to the current governance model. There's a need to take into account. One of the key principles of the Communication is precisely that those with financial responsibility are also responsible for prioritising and taking priority decisions. That's very wise, and that means that it's the Storting that's the only one that can determine how much of the social resources are going to be spent on health. Once the Storting has determined it and the health region or those who are given overall responsibility for the care-responsibilities of the specialist health service have got their frames, it is those who are best placed to assess, for example: the methods to be used on the basis of these criteria. What is important is that the principles of prioritisation and the system of prioritisation have been adopted democratically in the Grand Duchy, and that is done through this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2595	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2602	As the vote shows, and as the rapporteur from the Labour Party has explained, we fully support the principles and decisions that are now being proposed. We think it is very good that the Stortinget re-deploys that this is what now applies. You might also hear from the tone today that this is quite a broad consensus about. It's actually always been on paper, but it hasn't always been practiced the way we've decided in Stortinget, so let me make some brief comments about it. One is that many out there, for example. in healthcare, accuses us politicians of talking about being able to give the most priority out of all problems in life. That's not right. These principles may in theory apply within all kinds of economic frameworks, but there is no doubt that if the population – such as some here – experiences it, for example, develop a very strict approach to public health because of financial frameworks or other factors, while offering completely different types of treatment and services in the private sector – which many people have chosen for various reasons – will challenge the principles that we adopt here in the United Kingdom. In the ultimate sense, we can find ourselves in a situation where we decide that there should be some principles, but that they do not matter, because a large proportion of healthcare is not covered by the same principles, as we have seen in other countries. There's the market forces going on. So I agree that it is good for us to tighten up some of the things that, in the eyes of the Council of State, were unclear after the Pay II Committee. But then I come to my final point: When you see the striking difference there is in this debate now and the one that was 4-5 years ago, when the roles were slightly turned around in this room, I don't think there was a lack of clarity about who would decide what, or what kind of different weight you should give to different criteria after the Wage II Committee, which was the leaping point when representatives from both the two government parties and others today, partly loud and daily used the grand hall to promote vision that at all can't be said to be in line with the principles that we are adopting. So my final call in this debate is: now, together, we have agreed that there are these principles that should apply. This must now oblige all the lots, including those which have previously chosen to do so in other ways, including: those who are now in government. I now take it for granted that after these decisions have been taken, regardless of what happens to the budgetary crisis, the government crisis or the next elections, we agree that these principles should also be practised by us politicians, not only by the professionals in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2613	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2627	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of reply are given after the intervention of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, on behalf of the Advocate General Kristin Örmen Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2638	The representative proposal by the representatives of Berg-Hansen, Aasen, Asphjell and Grung, which we are discussing today, deals with a theme that affects many young people and their families. Luckily, most people who are infected with kissing disease -- I use that term instead of mononucleosis, because it's considerably simpler -- don't get long-term symptoms. About half of the infected people have kissing disease without even knowing it and without being plagued. But for those who are hit hard, they approx. 5 pst. causing significant health problems following the outbreak of the cystic disease is the disease serious. In the Committee's position, the Workers' Party promotes a proposal on its own. It will certainly explain to the Working Party itself. In the proposal, governments are asked: «activities aimed at increasing the knowledge of mononucleosis/coastal disease and of what can be done to prevent long-term outbreaks of disease and at reducing the health of young people affected by the disease». In the Right, we do not believe it is realistic that comprehensive targeted information on the disease will be critical to the number of people infected with mononucleosis. On the other hand, we believe that information on the course of the disease and the risk of developing complications to those who have been diagnosed with kissing disease is the most important measure to prevent serious disease. This task is being done, as we see it, well in the primary health service today, and we want this to continue to be done this way. In addition, an overall committee believes that the school health service has an important role to play in informing young people about the risk of infection and how to avoid infection. School health services have been significantly strengthened in recent years, and there is a joyful growth in the number of health sisters out there that can do this important information work. There is no medical treatment for kissing disease. It is treated by clearly informing the sick person about reducing the level of activity and avoiding alcohol and medicines that are degraded into the liver. Therefore, the most important measure to avoid serious disease, which damages the spleen, is information, close follow-up and clear guidance to those who have become ill. When the committee was visiting Akershu University Hospital in October this year, we were presented with an important research project led by Vegard Bruun Wyller on the relationship between kissing sickness and ME. There they now have a comprehensive and systematic collection of data, which can be a good starting point for further research into kissing disease, and which can also provide important input into how to treat post-kissy outbreaks of ME. Kiss disease is almost exclusively transmitted by young people, and most of these are diagnosed and treated by their prescriber. Many thousands of tests are taken each year, and we find that the prescribers are very attentive and concerned about checking whether the young actually have the mononucleosis virus when they visit the doctor. For the right, it is most important in this case that those who are affected and suffer from pain and symptoms receive good follow-up and information in the primary health service, and, of course, in the specialist health service if necessary. We believe it has been well explained in response to the Committee of the Council of State on the important function of healthcare in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2662	We have just addressed the priority message. It's natural to ask questions about why we haven't been able to prioritize the kissing disease higher, because it affects an extraordinary number of people. Although most people recover within two to four weeks, they experience 10 to 20 pst. that they are released for several months. For some, the disease becomes both serious and long-term. It hits mainly young people who are in the middle of our lives and who experience being put out in a way where they lose control of their lives. They get long-term absences from school at a time when they know that performing and moving on with their educational choices is absolutely crucial. Often, the active young people who also have to take a long break from sport or culture. Many also lose good and social contact with friends and others. The Labour Party believes that we can do far more than today to prevent so many young people from becoming seriously ill over such a long time. Then we have to remind ourselves, even though we are in the Health Committee, that not all young people and not all parents are looking to determine from the symptoms of kissing disease at the beginning. Kiss disease is a contagious viral disease that we don't have a vaccine against today. Therefore, it is important to reach out to young people with information about the symptoms of the disease, and that they should seek medical advice immediately in order to take a blood test. It is important to seek medical advice in case of suspicion because you can detect the disease with a simple blood test. If you are ill, precautions must be taken. The faster the diagnosis, the faster they can adapt their lifestyle to the disease – take it quite easy, no physical activity, and not alcohol. Parents, school, sports, and youth - care arenas must also be well aware of the symptoms of kissing. They should know what to do. A lot of a youth is active in sports, and it needs to be stopped immediately. Young people are generally very much together in groups, both at school and in social groups, so infection can spread rapidly without prevention. Alcohol and disease are a poor combination in all ages, but not everyone knows that alcohol consumption can also weaken the immune system, make us more susceptible to disease and worse disease. We believe that better and more frequent information will help young people make better choices when it comes to protecting themselves. In addition to better and effective prevention measures, we need to intensify research into better medical follow-up. As the rapporteur pointed out, it was gratifying to record that Ahus has just invested in this field of research and has collected data from 200 young people in the target group. This must be an excellent starting point for further research on kissing disease. In addition, Norway needs to engage in the important work of developing safe vaccines, which may be the only way to stop the disease now. The working party believes it is striking that kissing disease gets so little attention when it causes so much disease. It's time we did what we could to reduce the number of young people who get so seriously ill. I am promoting our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2687	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2692	90 pst. of all young people who become 20 years of age have had this disease in some form. Between 5 pst. and 10 pst. have serious complications with the disease. It is a disease for which we know that there is neither vaccine against nor treatment for. But what's also special is that 50 pst. by all those who get sick do not really know that they have had the disease until they have been shown by blood tests at a later stage in their doctor that they actually have antibodies associated with it. The Christian People's Party believes that those who sit in the extreme and often have the largest contact area and the best information into these young people are our people who work in the school health service. It is a prerequisite for them to meet the young, namely that they are at work and have enough hours to be at work and meet the young on an active school day. In this way, a youth can be informed about the precautions to be taken, the symptoms that exist, and what should be taken when this breaks out into the gang itself. The Christian People's Party also believes that one can use the school health service consciously in parents' meetings and class meetings to ensure that new knowledge and new information comes to those who need it the most. That's one of the reasons why the Christian People's Party has been busy earmarking funds just for the school health service. They have the widest contact surface. The decision-makers rarely go to the youth. Health nurses and school health services would like to meet if they are open. A conscious use of the school health service I think I'm going to join in raising this patient group. Teachers can also use this service when talking about gyms and activities that very many of these youths have to stay away from for a long time. The Christian People's Party also thinks that the school health service can actually participate – and I agree with the Workers' Party – and focus on knowledge and participate in research projects. It's great that Aarhus and other hospitals are participating in research, but I think that we should get out of here, we also need to be involved in research projects where the symptoms exist and where the school health service can contribute. School health services can also think about new things and work internationally with specialist health services, so that we can find a good grip on this disease. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party does not support the proposals of the Labour Party, because we believe in using and focusing on what already exists, contact areas that exist, use the school health service much more consciously, prioritize school health services with earmarked resources, ask decision-makers to be obsessive of youth and not least allow hospitals to think both prevention and treatment in a much more extensive way than what is being done today. Remember, there are only a few of those who get sick, who get into the specialist health service. Most people are at home, and one doesn't discover that one has had the disease before one sees the complications afterwards. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the ultimate element, the school health service, is the most important of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2701	Mononucleosis is a common viral disease that so to speak, everyone gets infected by at a young age. In the last five years, microbiological laboratories have diagnosed between 1700 and 3,500 times every year. This represents only a small proportion of the actual incidence as many do not experience clinical symptoms and many are not tested. Patients are usually treated in primary healthcare, where the diagnosis of ‘mononucleosis’ is between 20000 and 25000 times a year in the last five years. Kiss disease is diagnosed by clinical symptoms and/or by blood tests or samples taken from the neck. Primary health services usually use hottests. Mononucleosis is mainly transmitted via saliva, either through direct contact with the infected person or through toys and articles. An infected person is contagious for several months and long-term virus excretion occurs. It takes from four to six weeks from being infected until you get symptoms. In children, viral infection usually runs without symptoms and is therefore rarely recognised. When the infection occurs in the juveniles, it leads to mononucleosis in every third patient. The most common symptoms are fever, throat pain and weakness. For the vast majority of people, symptoms go over after a few weeks, but about half get more serious problems. Some of these will experience a longer period of slackness and lower energy levels. Mononucleosis has therefore, like many other infections, been associated with ME, without there being any decisive evidence of such a relationship. There are neither vaccines nor medicines for mononucleosis. A vaccine is being developed, but it will take a long time before such a vaccine can be used. It is not possible to predict who will develop symptoms, and which of these will have long-term fatigue problems. The main measures are to avoid alcohol and medicines that degrade the liver and to adapt the level of activity to the individual patient. Basic infection protection measures such as good hygiene and avoiding the transmission of saliva from a sick to a healthy person are the main measures to prevent infection. However, since half do not have symptoms, these measures will only have a limited effect. Another reason why it is difficult to stop transmission is that viruses are often separated over a long period of time. Therefore, it is also difficult to provide comprehensive targeted information to the population. However, young people are an important target group, and online information is adapted to young people, and most pharmacies also have brochures on the disease. The decision maker has an important role to play in informing patients who are diagnosed with kissing, of the course and risk of complications so that serious illness can be prevented. Cholestasis is common in Norway, and the disease is well known by the local authorities. Diagnostics are available, both at microbiological laboratories and as the fastest in primary health care. In the meeting with patients, physicians and medical practitioners have good knowledge of symptoms, diagnostics and prevention measures to prevent further infection and possible complications. Any medical report or reduced school activity will need to be adapted to the individual student, as it must be done for whatever medical reason. Specific measures for kissing in school and working life are considered to be of little relevance, in addition to reducing the level of activity in the acute phase of the disease. As in other areas of medicine, there is research that can contribute to new knowledge also on mononucleosis, thereby improving prevention, diagnostics and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2729	After hearing the speech to the Council of State, and having read his reply to the Committee, I have probably strictly taken just one question, and it is: Is he aware that behind all the figures he uses, and behind his medical language, there are people, people of flesh and blood, young people of their best age, who see their lives passing? He writes in his letter of reply that for a smaller proportion the infection will lead to a longer period, fixed to 2-6 months, with weakness and lower energy levels. What's a smaller number? And once again, there are people behind these numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2734	I am fully aware that there are people behind the figures, but it is also important that one sees that the measures that can be taken are those that are based on the best available medical knowledge. There is currently no vaccine or medicinal product against this disease. It's very common in the population, it's well-known by health professionals, both regular doctors and school health services, and there are good diagnostic tools. There is no real treatment, but there is good advice to give to young people who have had the disease. That's the situation we're in. There is a vaccine under development, but as I said in my answer, it will probably take many years before a vaccine is ready to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2740	I have to admit that I am genuinely sorry for all those young people who have had mononucleosis for years, for they exist, as well as for as many despairing parents who are also sitting and being equally stated. The attitude of the Minister of Health here, that everything is kind of very well, is quite incomprehensible to me. One might say that most people go through mononucleosis without having discovered it, but there are many exceptions, and the Council of State won't say anything about how large that number is today. But then to it with the vaccine, where the council now says it will take a long time to get this vaccine out. Why does it take a long time? Is it because this patient group is not heard well enough? They lie there at home in their dark rooms and in their beds and are unable to give sound away. Why can't work with a vaccine be given higher priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2747	First of all, I react to an attempt to create the impression that I have a negative attitude or a different attitude toward these patients than what I have for other patients. I don't. But I have given a sober explanation of what options are available. It is also important that one does not give the impression that there are alternatives other than those that are actually being used, for example. treatment. With regard to the development of vaccines, there is a major and complex issue. It's like we have a lot of big, very deadly diseases in the world that we haven't developed vaccines for either. Norway takes international responsibility for the forgotten diseases in this area. This disease is not among them, although it also hits hard those who get a hard rash of the disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2754	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2761	Some diseases are more prevalent in certain parts of life than in others. Kiss disease affects young people. As a teenage mother, you get to hear some nice disease stories, and they're far more than you think. The typical thing is an active girl or boy who has suddenly had to put school and sports ambitions aside for quite a long time and take it quite calmly. Have they allowed the disease to develop, not to see a doctor when they began to develop symptoms, and still their hectic life, it often leads to prolonged illness. This is unexpected for many and shows that the information needs are greater than many seem to believe. The problem with the disease is that we don't know enough about it, and that it's done too little to prevent it, and I would like the bulk of the population to see it. Everyone here will help those who are sick, and the health service will do the best they can with a disease that can barely be alleviated and that can't be medicated. But the reason why we, as proposers, have proposed to do something about this is that many at risk know little about the disease before they are affected. It only happens afterwards, that they get information, and then it can be too late, because then many have run a high level of activity while they were ill, and then they get even sicker, and then it lasts even longer. Some may be ill for up to several years. In particular, school leave is demanding at this age, as it provides guidance for the entire course of education. Had this hit 40-year-olds, the headlines would probably be a lot bigger, but this does not affect any sick leave, it is not recorded that way. And when you check with the schools, there's little statistics. The Minister of Knowledge has been asked about this in the Questionnaire. He has become aware of the topic and shows great interest in it, but there is little information in schools in Norway about how many are actually affected and how much the consequences are. But all young people, and those who have something to do with young people, should be much more informed, for example. all football runners, handball runners, those who deal with youth on a daily basis. The symptoms are like mild cold, you just get together and keep on living, and these are young people who have a full drive at school from morning to evening, and they also train. It's totally wrong medicine, to say it carefully, that's what often makes them sick. So my concern is to have a little less medical focus in this debate, which I might find that the Committee and the Council of State have had, and more focus on the ‘good advice’, as the Council of State Bent Höie mentioned, but in a way that makes us get systematic information before our young people get sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2776	Often political commitment is triggered by personal commitment, and I do not conceal that this is very personal to me. We have a niece who has been sick for six years after she had a serious outbreak of mononucleosis, and we have now lived the last two years with a daughter who we first feared that we had lost, and who has been very ill, and who still – over two years after she became ill – strives hard. Then it is that when you are first hit, you also get in touch with many others who have experienced the same thing. That's why I have to admit that I'm disappointed that the majority in this room is kind of just leaning back and thinking that everything is pretty much very well. Because it's not. Have you met a youth who sees life passing by, who is not able to hang out with their friends, or have you heard stories where youth is accused of being lazy and beggarless? I know another girl, who felt that all the energy left her body while she went to high school. She was active in handball, and she got a reply from her coach when she asked to be replaced: here I am deciding who should be replaced. If the coach had that knowledge of kissing disease, it might have called a bell. Instead, the girl was at worst at risk of life. That's why it's incomprehensible to me that the majority won't be involved in gaining more knowledge, or at least in getting out the knowledge that we have, after all, in colleges, high schools, sports teams and other arenas where young people live. Youth must not be dependent on having a lion’s mother. When our daughter, Johanne, was admitted to the hospital, the superintendent said to me: What most people hear about the kissing sickness is when top athletes get it one year and become world champion next year. People don't hear about all those who lie in dark rooms year in and year out. I think we owe them and everyone else who gets sick with mononucleosis, to do everything we can to make their everyday lives easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2789	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2803	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2812	It is a joint committee that supports the proposal for a new Norwegian space strategy. The Committee points out that the Stortninget already adopted the Innst. 8 S for 2015–2016 that the government should start work on a new, broad and well anchored national space strategy. And we're now getting feedback in the budget, in Prop. 1 S for 2016–2017, that this work has started. It is a joint committee that supports the government's view that space is a theme that has a great and increasing significance for Norway. Norway is a major consumer of space-related services, both for the purposes of navigation, maritime rescue, communication and marine surveillance. And we're competitive: Norway has a number of companies that deliver goods and services to ESA, but also to other space environments. ESA is important. ESA is in many ways the ‘home market’ of the Norwegian space industry. If the Norwegian companies do not receive deliveries to our own home market, which is ESA, they do not compete in other markets either. And the experience is good. Several Norwegian companies have established market parts in the international free and open market for space-related goods and services through their deliveries to ESA. We then record that the EU is now going to present its space strategy and that ESA is also going to renew its strategy. It is a joint committee which sees it as appropriate that the forthcoming Norwegian space strategy be developed so that it can be seen in conjunction with the ESA strategy. Right, I believe that such a strategy should address the industry's need for measures that can make growth visible to the Norwegian space industry. It's economic growth and new jobs we want. So it's that the committee has registered that government in Prop. 1 S for 2016-2017 proposes a reduction in participation in ESA's voluntary programme from 2018. The abnormal thing here is that this will be taken out of the budgetary work and included in this Document 8. Joining the budgetary package in this Document 8 seems to be somewhat unbiased and unusual, but I see the point, as the budgetary negotiations have run out in time – and the ministerial meeting in ESA is already 1–2. of December. Right supports that the government at the ESA Ministerial Meeting 1–2. on December 2016, commitments are included in ESA’s voluntary programme of 150 million. the euro for the next period. We wanted this as a comment in the committee reading at the discharge meeting – that we support it in the budgetary context, but not in the proposal for document 8 itself – but we did not get it. Now that this Document 8 proposal for a new Norwegian space strategy is being promoted with a budget theme including – before the budget is to be discussed – it becomes natural for the Right to support the intention of the proposals, where the majority want to maintain the ESA support, and to have a new Norwegian space strategy. But there are some shades in the wording of the decision that we might have wanted to have adjusted slightly: When it comes to the proposal for Decision I, here we want to add 150 million. the euro in new commitments. When it comes to the proposal for Decision II, it seems to me that it is too detailed to go into the details of the chapter to be published in this work of the government. One must have some freedom in the government to develop a strategy in line with the industry and in line with the stakeholders here. So if this isn't too bitter, it's very good to get it settled in this debate. In the case of proposals for Decision III: point 2 requires us to ‘establish a Space Leadership Council’. If you can change the wording of the word to "estimate" if you want us to establish this, it is also more appropriate and a much better wording. Just the same under point 4: Here it says that we should “work for a new and better organisation of the Norwegian Space Centre”. That, I think, is also a matter that should come out as a result of this strategy, and not as a imposition from here. I also hope that the debate can clarify exactly that, that we should not interpret this as literally as it says here under point 4. So if we had got this and the debate here today can confirm that we're on the right track when it comes to how we're going to interpret this, we can agree with the changes that I think the proposers, hopefully, are willing to be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2837	The proposal from the Workers’ Party and the SV, which is currently being discussed, to develop a Norwegian space strategy, was presented in June. After that, the government has through Prop. 1 S for 2016-2017 announced that they would develop a space strategy. That's good. In this context, I am pleased that a majority of the committee was involved in providing clear leadership for the government's work. The proposers believe that broad and targeted cooperation on a Norwegian space strategy can take Norwegian space industry from a niche industry to a wide, high-tech industry, which can create many new jobs at a time when transition to new industries is important. A Norwegian space strategy must have the overall objective of doubling turnover in the Norwegian space industry by 2025. This industry is in strong international growth, described by many as a new high-tech development phase. In business policy, good cooperation between public and private actors is important. As far as space travel is concerned, it is of particular importance. The industry operates in a market that is strongly political in nature and is dependent on public policy. It is therefore particularly important that public and private actors work towards the same objective in Norway and beyond. A strategy will ensure this. While a majority in Stortinget wanted to continue its investment in Norwegian space activities, the government came with a government budget that would build it up. In the draft budget, the government cut Norway’s contribution to the European Space Agency’s voluntary programme of 70-75 pst. from 2018. ‘The consequence, if implemented, is that Norwegian space activities are likely to be closed over time’; Eline Oftedal, Head of the Norwegian Industrial Forum for Rome – NIFRO. The situation was very special, especially when the Council of State came to the Storting and told them that space betting was considered important, and that the space industry had general nationwide arrangements they could apply for. Firstly, it shows, in my view, a lack of understanding of the space industry. ESA is considered to be the Norwegian space industry’s ‘home market’ and the reduction to which the government provided would have a direct negative impact on the Norwegian space industry. Secondly, it is politically incomprehensible and very special that the government is adding up to such a change through the budget without notifying any change in Norwegian space policy. Yes, even the government parties in the committee agree that this is not an appropriate consideration. Businesses are required to make long-term investments. This is particularly true in a knowledge- and technology-intensive sector such as the space industry, and this requires predictable framework conditions. Thirdly, that the government that talks so much about change and research wants to undermine high-tech jobs with high transfer value between sectors is very special. When, in addition, the government was unable to reach a budgetary agreement prior to the ESA meeting, we were about to have a minority government that de facto closed the Norwegian space industry without the Stortinget having said so. The government’s response in the media has also not been uplifting after committee reading. It seems to me to be a somewhat arrogant opinion when they express that they relate to the budgetary procedure and not to the majority of the committee in the vote. When it becomes apparent later that the government parties want to meet the majority of the committee, that is good. With that in mind, therefore, I have the pleasure of promoting a joint proposal on behalf of all the parties in the Committee. It is identical to the majority position but with the following addition to I: ‘i.e. 150 million. euro in new commitments’.» So in point III(2), the word ‘establish’ is replaced by ‘assess’. As for what the representative Ove Trellevik asked for the evaluation of the Norwegian Rome Centre, I feel it is implicit in our proposal, and that it is natural with such an evaluation. With regard to the main strategy, it would also be natural for the government to make other recordings along the way. With this I expect a clear feedback from the Minister that this vision is being presented in Lucerne.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2871	The representative of Omland has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2876	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for promoting a good and nutritious proposal. What we're going to discuss today will help to guide Norwegian space policy in the coming days. As it emerges from the proposal and from the suspension, this industry operates in a market that is strongly political in nature and depends on public policy. There are few industries that are so closely related to what's happening in this hall, like the space industry. A harvest day over 50 years ago, at Rice University in Texas, U.S.A., stood an American president and almost guaranteed that by the end of the decade, the Americans would have sent a man safely to the moon and safely back again. All of us politicians know how difficult it is to issue guarantees, including small national issues in Norway. However, any guarantee is bleached against Kennedy's guarantee at the beginning of the 1960s. They weren't going to do it because it was easy, but because it was hard. They were to do it to gather a whole people into the cold war against tyranny in the east. They won, and the dream was reached. I'm glad that a joint committee will bet on Norwegian space activities. The industry is of major and increasing importance to Norway and the space industry is to be a tool for Norwegian interests. Technology that benefits the use of space also plays a major role in a growing number of social areas. Several Norwegian industries, such as the offshore sector, maritime industry and fisheries, are some of the sectors dependent on well-functioning satellite systems. These are also important for Earth observation, navigation and communication applications in our large land and sea areas. Space is also an important research venue where we can gather scientific data from the upper part of the atmosphere and from space around the earth. This industry is important in order to create profitable enterprises, growth and employment and to help meet key societal and user needs. In addition, it meets the science fiction needs of a large number of staging representatives, at least my own. Norway participates in European space cooperation through the European Space Agency, ESA, and other Earth observation programmes. Participation ensures good Norwegian market access, access to technology and early insight into space-based infrastructure systems. These accesses are important and it is gratifying that a number of Norwegian companies have established themselves internationally within niches of space-related technology and established good market shares in the international market. The achievement of the objectives of Norwegian space activities requires effective use of the international cooperation in which Norway participates, and our ability to provide own infrastructure solutions which, for various reasons, cannot be achieved in cross-border cooperation. One of the main priorities of the Government in 2017 is to take advantage of the opportunities offered by Norway’s participation in international cooperation on space activities for Norwegian industry and Norwegian user groups. An important priority is also to facilitate Norwegian investment in space activities to trigger value creation in Norwegian business and to create ring-effects and synergies in nearby industries. It is a good decision that will be taken in this matter today. Although the process up to these decisions may have been a little messy, I'm glad that it ends up as it does, most likely with unanimous decisions. It's good to see that we still have that ability to figure out. Maybe there should be an example for follow-up in other areas too. Norwegian space industry, Norwegian space research and European cooperation in this area deserve predictability and future optimism, because the space industry is one of our livelihoods, along with oil, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2891	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs who have submitted this draft representative. I would also like to thank the Committee and the members of the Government parties for their constructive work after the vote has been given in the Committee, and until we are here in the Chamber now. The Norwegian space industry has a turnover of more than 7 billion. kr annually, and it shows that the long-term and targeted investment in high-tech top-notch competence has been a good investment for Norway. Space industry is a major and growing international industry, and Norwegian membership of ESA has been crucial for the Norwegian industry’s ability to participate here, especially in the voluntary programmes. We know that these programmes are nutritious and that Norway's participation has given a socio-economic return of over 40 pst. It tells the Menon report prepared by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. There is also a broad consensus in the Storting that, as a country, we should invest in space activities to ensure important national needs, to further develop a strong export industry and to create jobs. During the examination of the current year’s budget – the budget adjustment for 2016 – we unanimously decided to ask the government to start work on a strategy that should have a broad foundation in the industry. That is why I would like to say that it is also very happy with the job that has been done since the committee gave its position on Thursday and until the debate in the Chamber today – first of all that we could go to the Chamber today and get the important decisions before the ministerial meeting on Thursday and Friday, but also that we can have a unanimous vote for this important industry and for the whole country, because this is a technology that is many places and that is important in our districts, but which is also important in our high-tech companies, where we have important clusters.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2900	Let me start by thanking the President for moving forward on this matter. I would also like to thank the Committee for its decision today on this matter. And I want to thank the case manager for the job that is done. I mainly agree with the post that the case spokesperson held, and I also join the representative of Omland in his post. The background for this case showed that the government wanted to make a significant cut in Norway's contribution to ESA. It gave the Minister of Industry of the United Kingdom the basis for the need for a package of measures for the West. I find it a little strange that a need for money to finance an action package, which did not go into the budget, and that a person financed it with money that would be current for 2018 and beyond. Then there is also the fact that there are a number of companies in the South and West that are now operating with what is called 'transition'. Many of them are high-tech companies that see opportunities in space. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Industry, on behalf of the Council of State, stated that the level under the previous government was too high. There was the government's will. Then it has been said that the process in the past has been used extensively as being unforeseeable and unusual, or that the process has been messy. To make a mild recommendation, I would recommend that the representatives of the pluralist parties be a little cautious about the kind of words in the political situation that the country is currently in. For we have a minority government in Norway, and I have to say that I am provoked when the Business Committee had issued a plural position that indicated a clear direction as to what a wanted would be Norway's vote, and the Secretary of State is out saying that no, we are waiting, and referred to the budgetary process, a budgetary process that this Secretary of State on behalf of the Council of State was fully aware of would not have ended until the Council of Ministers was finished. Therefore, it is so important that we have a decision taken today, and when this decision is taken today, there is no doubt about what is going to be Norway's role and what is going to be Norway's position at the Council of Ministers meeting. When it comes to the space strategy itself, in which this case has its origin, I think that our starting point is that this is an industry that we, as a country, want to bet on, that we have good intentions to bet on. The fact that today we have a set of settings to put some leads for such a strategy, I think I'm a brilliant starting point that there's every reason to be happy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2913	I choose to assume that the space industry is an industry with significant development potential. Industries with development potential should be developed, not marginalised. Businesses must make long-term investments. Not least for knowledge and technology-intensive sectors such as the space industry. Predictability is important in this area, as is the case in industry. That's why it's hard to understand what the cut government has put up with. This has been even more incomprehensible when the government says that space is a topic of major and increasing importance to Norway. Then it must be stimulated, not cut. The left and I have asked no less than two state councillors about this matter earlier this fall, but we were especially reassured at some point. That's why I'm glad it looks like we can get a unanimous decision today, as the representative Odd Omland presented it. I emphasise that space research is an innovative and international activity that also helps Norway to fulfil important national tasks related to sovereignty, maritime surveillance and communication in the north. I also assume that this international research has given Norway access to a great deal of expertise beyond the borders of Norway. These are resource-intensive research, and the more countries that contribute, the more likely they are to succeed in good projects. I refer to the majority comment that underlines that the time is ripe for developing a new Norwegian space strategy, a strategy that must ensure that public authorities, industry and academia are bringing together to raise knowledge, technology development and economic growth for space activities in Norway. The industry operates in a market that is strongly politically driven and dependent on public policy, and it is therefore particularly important that public and private actors work towards the same objective, within and outside Norway. It's this government now has to pay attention to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2932	Nature doesn't end at the top of the tailpipe, but we usually act like that on our little planet. But why should our knowledge of the world around us be limited to the Earth's surface? Just like we're looking for answers to nature's riddles at the bottom of the ocean and deep below the ground, we have to look beyond. Space travel makes us wiser on Earth. No pictures make better the kind of world we live in, and how valuable it is, than the photographs of our planet taken from space. Until the first images of the Earth were taken by the crew on Apollo 8, our image of the Earth was somewhat abstract. Science and technology gave us the opportunity to see the earth from the outside and tell us something about who we are as human beings. As one of the proposers, I must admit that I am very pleased that the Stortinget today adopts proposals for a Norwegian space investment, and I want to thank the nutrition committee for very constructive and good work. This is a day of joy. It is not least for the Norwegian space industry. It's big, but it's too little visible. We have some of the world's leading satellite environments in Tromsø. We have research in Trondheim. We have an ambitious industrial cluster in Stavanger. We have Andøya, not least. We have Svalbard with his options. We have the space industry in Kongsberg and much more. This industry has a huge potential, but it requires a very active industrial policy. It requires policy-makers with the intention of strategic overview and willingness to take risks in order to live up to their potential. Space research gives us invaluable knowledge of the environment. The discovery of the ozone problems is due to a lot of space researchers working on the Venus atmosphere mapping. It's no coincidence that one of the world's leading climate scientists, James Hansen, came from NASA. Copernicus, as we have discussed in Stortinget before, provides incredible opportunities for environmental monitoring of the northern regions, and Brazil's perhaps main tool for monitoring the deforestation of the Amazon is geostationary satellites. Few forms of research give us just as much important information, which can be the basis for our actions on earth. The oil industry provides jobs for tens of thousands of people in Norway and even more in the industries supplying oil and gas technology. The question ‘What are we going to live on after the oil?’ has become a cliché, but it has to be asked as constructively as possible. Space technology is part of the answer, but a very important part of that answer. Enterprises like SAPTEC in Stavanger show how much we can draw from our technological oil adventure to new jobs and new knowledge – and new adventures. This is in Norway's interest. Satellites, for example, will make us safer by providing weather data to help ship traffic, prevent oil spills, in the long term contribute to a more sustainable farming industry, with lakes further off the coast, monitoring air pollution, etc. In addition, the management of as large marine areas as Norway does is a major responsibility. All the technologies that can contribute to this are of the good, including security policy. But above all, space is civil, it is peaceful, and it is a force for peace. At the end of November of last year, in 2014, just as the Russians committed serious violations of international law against Ukraine, a handful of astronauts were carrying a Russian Soyuz vessel up to the ISS. Smiley researchers from Russia, Europe and the United States were shown at the station, working together to find new forms of peaceful use of space. Today space travel and space research are symbols of how even superpowers can lay off raw self-interest and cooperate, for the benefit of all. There is one last reason to bet on space that may not be mentioned so often, but is the most important – as John Kennedy said, and he has been referred to earlier in the debate – because we can. Few communities have ever been as rich as Norway is in our time. We have technology, we have industry, and we can afford to bet. From space we have gained a wealth of progress in textiles, digital solutions and better health technologies, which have benefited all of humanity. But it requires communities that are willing to explore and test. We have the opportunity as a country, and with that opportunity follows an obligation. We can never master space, but we have obligations to understand it – obligations to seek to understand as much as possible of all nature around us. I would like to congratulate the Stortinget on its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2956	Space activities are undoubtedly important for Norway. Norway’s geography, topography and industrial structure make us major consumers of space-related services for purposes such as navigation, communication, maritime surveillance and rescue. Satellite technology is an important facilitator of key Norwegian industries such as fisheries, offshore and transport. In addition, we have an international, competitive space industry, which contributes to revenues and high-tech jobs in large parts of the country. Report. St. 32 for 2012–2013 established the principle that Norwegian space activities should be a tool for Norwegian interests. This has led the government's follow-up to the sector. Among other things, we have the mandate of the Norwegian Space Centre, and we have built up Space Norway AS, a sectoral policy company for national control of space infrastructure of national importance. As pointed out in the draft representative, global space activities are in strong development. More and more countries have activities in space, and private actors are in the process of moving in. Downstream use of space infrastructure has grown as a new and exciting business area in strong growth. The growing dependence of society on space-based services has made satellites critically important infrastructure of high safety importance. The government announced to the Stortinget in connection with the 2017 state budget that we are developing a space strategy. This work is in progress, and I intend to put forward a strategy in 2017. I state that it is a strategy – not a new big message – we have notified us to submit. That being said, of course, I am very pleased with the Storting's involvement in the matter. The strategy will provide leadership for Norwegian space activities in the future in time. It is important that these leaders have a sound professional basis, and not least that they are broadly anchored in key user groups. To this end, we are to conduct recording meetings with key actors and knowledge environments around the country, and we are also to carry out an external socio-economic analysis of public spending on Norwegian space activities. In addition to deciding on the proposal for a representative, the Business Committee shall call for an increase in Norway’s new commitments to the ESA voluntary programmes, in addition to what is proposed in the Government’s draft budget for 2017. Since the government promoted the draft budget, the European Space Agency (ESA) has worked on its budget. A number of ESA programmes, which were planned to start in 2017, are delayed. As a result, the expected payments made by Norway are also modified. And to be clear about it, because it's been in the debate before: if we were to put ourselves at the level that was then, when we put in the budget, it would take 80 million. NOK in addition to the 49,5 million. the euro that the government actually proposed. In ESA, countries are making multiannual programming commitments, which the ESA then calls up as the programmes progress. However, we have a good overview of what annual payments we can count on at different levels of new commitments. We know that if we commit 150 million. The Council of Ministers meeting on 1 December will make payments in 2018 and 2019 at approximately the same level as the Government’s draft budget for 2017, i.e.: approx. 380 million. kr per year. As the ESA's draft budget now looks, Norway can go into ESA with a higher commitment than what we used in the government's draft budget, without having a budgetary impact for 2017. I see that this is the committee's proposal, and of course this will be followed up at the ministerial meeting on 1 December by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2977	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2982	Today, there is a total accumulation that instructs the government to change course. The cuts referred to by the Council of State shall be turned to a bet. When the setting was in place, it seemed that the government did not fully take the signals that were there. The opinion of State Secretary Hiim has already been referred to. Now the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Storting have also joined in what was the majority position. I think that the Council of State was not clear enough in its statement right now, so I want to ask simply: what will the government say at the ESA Council of Ministers in Lausanne? Is it now clear that the cuts that have been in the budget are swindling at the bet that the Storting wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2989	I am very surprised if I was not clear. We will follow up the decision of the Storting. And so the world has changed. The opinion delivered by the Committee does not require budgetary impact for 2017. This means that it does not require budgetary clarifications, but the Committee sets a higher level than the government for 2018 and 2019. We're dealing with that, and I said it very clearly from the pulpit, and if necessary, I'm going to repeat it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e2994	I thank you for that answer. That depression, I believe, was in place. This is also the second time that Stortinget is asking for a space strategy. This government has shown that it has not had special ambitions in this field. The size has shown that someone has other ambitions, clearer ambitions. In what is the position of the Storting, there are also clear indications of both the scale and content of what is expected of policy in this area. The industry neutrality to which this government has provided is being disregarded for a clear commitment to a Norwegian national space strategy. The Council of State pointed out that one can expect that there will be a new strategy in ours. What I would like to be clear about is how the Council of States takes into account the concrete leadership of the proposal that the Storting is now adopting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3001	Now it's the way strategies are made by the government. We've made a maritime strategy, we're working on a sea strategy, we're making a big deal about travel, we're working on an industrial message, we have a lot of things at work, and so we're also working on a space strategy. Where the representatives get the concept of neutrality from, I'm still amazed, but it's such a political rhetoric that you think you're winning out with. We have a lot of things at work in different industries, based on the situation we're in, and the space strategy comes in 2017, as announced by the government in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3006	It could have been heard on the Council's posts as if the actual situation had changed very much since the budget was submitted, and to now. It is worth reminding that the reactions to the cuts in the ESA funds came immediately, and that the government has defended cutbacks several times in the Storing. But leave it alone. I am very pleased with the unanimous decision that the Stortinge is making now, and my question to Minister of Space Malta is whether the Council of State is equally pleased with the decision that the Stortinge makes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3013	First of all, the world has changed. Eighty million. NOK is a significant amount that had to be financed if we were to maintain our commitment. I have been very clear that I wish we could, but that would require us to cut the 80 million. kr from other research programmes in the budget or found other ways to cover them. So the world has changed. The nomination of the Committee does not have an impact on the 2017 budget. Having said that, I'm glad we're getting at this bet, and I've been very clear that it's important, but when it comes to making a budget, you have to make tough decisions, and we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3018	There is something from the post of the Council of State that I was just going to get full clarity about: The Council of State says that there has been a slow start to the projects in the voluntary programmes in ESA, and therefore there will be no start-up – as far as you can see – in 2017. Can the Government guarantee that there will be no activity in the voluntary programmes in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3023	No, it's activity in the volunteer programs, and when someone gave the impression that the government was going to rage our participation, we shouldn't. We were going to attend with 50 million. euro. It's a significant amount, so we're going to participate in the voluntary programmes. What the ESA has notified to its members is that there is a delay in development. It happens in many of the programs, it's not unnatural. But that's the knowledge we've gained now, which means that we don't have to put on the table fresh money in 2017, beyond what the government has proposed in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3028	All right. My last question is about the state council can reason a little with us in Stortinget. Last year we had the Copernicus cut, which was significant, and this year it's the proposal for the ESA cut. By going to the background of these cuts, we see that this would mean that about 500 high-tech jobs would have disappeared from the Norwegian space industry as a result of these cuts. There are 500 out of a total of 1,200 high-tech jobs — a rather unlikely breakdown. What kind of assessment has the Council of State found it beneficial for Norway with such a great downgrading of the Norwegian space industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3036	I do not follow the comments of the representative, nor do I follow the conclusions. Norway has a big space bet. We're using over 1 billion. kr per year. It's because we're taking great advantage of these programs. In the case of voluntary programmes, 50 million were proposed. euro. It is a strong commitment to this industry. This is a bet that would give back to the industry. The size of the store has now announced a higher ambition. I'm glad, but making budgets involves tough priorities. This does not mean that something is not important and correct, but it simply means that you have to give priority, and the thing that required fresh money at the time does not do so now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3043	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3050	Last Thursday, Dr. C.J. ‘Onno’ means the verbs of the Space and Offshore Department at Nammo Raufoss that if the government does not turn and say yes to ESA on 2 December, it is above and outside the space department at Nammo. Then he saw this in a five-year perspective. On a national basis, half of today's 1,200-year-olds in this high-tech industry would disappear, said the Roman expert on the Toten of Oppland Arbeiderblad. The week before, Nammo's space division had a visit from the staging president, Olemic Thommess. He was then presented with the expertise that is there, and for the disastrous follow-up of government's government budget proposals in this area would get when they cut contributions that go to development funds for new projects. The President of the Grand Duchy promised to bring the matter up with the Minister of Industry, without anything happening, but the majority of the Business Committee and here in Stortinget are cleaning up. Fortunately, we were five representatives from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party who had tabled a representative proposal, which we are now discussing, on a new Norwegian space strategy. There was an opportunity to give the Minister of Industry crystal clear instructions from this house, before she will immediately represent Norway in the ESA meeting. In addition, we have received support for the proposals and measures outlined in the draft representative. So the rescue came in the count's time, at a time of budget negotiations on the civil side, which clearly never comes into port. There's a lot to it that we have a government that is so indifferent to the bulk of the population, and that is even so little forward-looking that you don't even see the potential of the Norwegian space industry. Then it is good that there are more positive forces also in the camp here in Stortinget, because I now register that the government parties also sign up, and finally see the need to instruct or – perhaps I will use a more positively charged expression – motivate the council of state for space deployment. I've used Raufoss as an example. There may be 35 threatened annual works to 75 secure and exciting high-income jobs in a few years. There are many actors in Norway, and the potential for technological progress and new jobs is high, well and bear in mind with the decision taken today, and I would like to stress that it is a pleasure to finally end with a unanimous vote. The decision is offensive and far-sighted, with four key strategic areas: climate and environment, technology transfer, social security and research and education. To all those who have contributed to the maximum payout of our proposal, I would like to thank you very much. This was actually more than we dared to hope for, but above all it is very important for the Norwegian space industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3063	It has been a bit of a mountain and valley for the Norwegian space industry for the last two years. It's been a little bit of space working with space. After many years of solid growth in the space industry, where Norway, as a nation, is constantly drinking in weight classes far above what our weight was going to cost, the shock message came out last year: the government proposed to withdraw Norway from the Copernicus project. Drawing on this important space monitoring programme, which is even an EU programme, would have negative consequences for Norwegian resource and environmental monitoring, business, research, knowledge acquisition and technology development. Norway has become world leader in Arctic space surveillance, and according to a crowd of critics from the NHO to the LO, this would have pulled the carpet away throughout this venture. Luckily, the Left and Christian People's Party fear the government from yet another unwise decision. They have in many ways our wisdom their valve for government in times of fear. So, in October this year, a new shock came. This time there was a completely different sacred grail in the Norwegian space adventure: the voluntary programs in ESA would be cut by over 70 pst. Once again, the opposition had to be familiar with its different projects in the voluntary programmes. We just got a higher level of knowledge about the space industry in these two years. Never before have there been so much talk about the space industry and space in the Storting as now – it's never so crazy that it's not good for anything. It's for these programs that we tailor the Norwegian space effort to the areas where Norway has the best places to succeed. That means that the more we put into ESA's voluntary program, the higher the return on Norway. As the representative Hemdal was in, Menon concluded that almost all the efforts are very positive, with an annual average return of nearly 40 pst. There's not so many areas Norway can invest and get so high returns, not even the famous oil fund manages in its best days to approach this. The turnover in the Norwegian space industry is more than 7 billion. kr, and each public kr invested in ESA provides well over 5 kroner in turnover. The latter is confirmed in OECD reports and in an evaluation made by PWC in 2012. Furthermore, cut would also have direct negative consequences for the Copernicus project, and then in a way the circle ended from the year before for something that after all was some of that was a big loss, and which could not at least lead to 300 fewer high-tech jobs in industry, according to estimates from Norsk Romsenter. But today we stand here, richer in knowledge and with a good proposal, which is not only a rescue package, but also a commitment to a strategy that is not to be downgraded but raised. And for me as a northerner, this is a great day. The main centre of gravity of the celestial axis is from Stavanger, Trondheim, Kongsberg, Narvik, Andeya, Tromsø and Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3074	And the Toten, I've got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3079	And Death, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3084	When the representative and the proposer Odd Omland confirmed part of how we should interpret paragraph 4 of the proposal for Decision II, namely that a process in the government and some work to do before we can conclude that organisational changes are to be made in the Norwegian space industry and in the Norwegian Roma centre, it is natural for us to vote in favour of the multi-annual decision that we from the Right and the Advance Party have been preparing. Then I wonder if it's natural for me as a case spokesman to withdraw the recommendation from the committee, so that we only have one suggestion to vote on when we come to voting today. There is only one offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3089	I think it's going to be wrong, but I think the idea of the representative has come out clearly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3094	I have previously characterized this day in Stortinget as the digital day. We have dealt with a wide range of issues related to the fourth industrial revolution, as a result of technological developments, and as a result of a number of other shifts that occur. We've been discussing for a long time and in different contexts what kind of meaning it will have for society. Space travel is a very important part of it. It's no longer that the distance to the room is very large. The space is part of the world we're dealing with, and the opportunities technology has given us make life on earth better, and we're given the opportunity to solve some of the big challenges we're facing. But it is also the case that the space industry is an important district industry. We have some natural advantages in Norway to be good at space and space. We are one of the countries that have well-developed infrastructure close to the pole point. That's an advantage. That makes us, for example, can build a space observation antenna in the New Ålesund, where we are investing hundreds of millions of dollars now, which is an important contribution to the international community. Andøya plays an important role in Norwegian space activities, with the launch field and other related activities. SvalSat in Longyearbyen gives us a lot of opportunities that don't exist anywhere else. We have developed major business activities in Tromsø related to Kongsberg Satellite Services, and not least we have important study places in Narvik. The space industry is a future industry that requires a high level of competence, but it also provides very high value creation, which several previous speakers have been involved in. That's why it's important to facilitate it. Nevertheless, I am stunned by the attitude of the Council of State when we discuss this. When the Council of State presents it as if this was something the government really wanted, it's not in line with the reality I've had. I think, like the representative, Mr Hemdal, I should like to thank the government parties for the constructive efforts they have made in Stortinget after the vote. It has brought us to an important consensus on where the space industry is going, and I think that in the heart of it, the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party are also grateful for the efforts of the Left and Christian People's Party to get a majority. I join those who have congratulated me on the day. That's really reason to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3107	As one of the proposers, I would also like to thank a unanimous increase in this matter. It felt a little crazy when we promoted this proposal before the summer. I did it because I have faith in this industry. I believe that this can help create new jobs, and that it can be part of the transition we need so badly in the West. At the same time, I think it is particularly important to sit in the Chamber today and hear the representatives from the Right and the Progress Party criticising the process, who criticise the proposal, but also want to be part of the winning team. It is also particularly important to hear a government council that today, as if this case had no significance. I would like to remind you that by February at the latest, in an article under Space Dinner, it was a little ambitious state secretary who represented the government, and would talk about a space strategy without content, without ambition. Now, luckily, the sound is a completely different one. With regard to the ESA funds, I wonder what had happened, if this case had not come to Stortinget, if it was not today that we received this vote. Last week the government stated that Storting’s treatment would not have any effect. Fortunately, a change of vote took place. Fortunately, the government's course has been changed, and the Stortinge rescues today what could become a gas station for the government and which could have serious consequences for the space industry. I wanted a little greater humility from the government in this room today. That I think had paid off, both in this case and not least in these times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3116	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3131	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3145	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3163	During the debate, a proposal was put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a statement on how Norway can further ensure that citizens and businesses are aware that sensitive information can be tapped from computer systems and telephones.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3196	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No 11, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the initial loan regulation in order to establish two schemes, one with limitations according to current rules and one for young people without sufficient equity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3229	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assume that in areas with low population sizes where housing construction is important for maintaining the population, more scattered housing can be provided provided for, provided that there is strict soil protection.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3244	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate an increase in housing around the public nodes. It is a prerequisite that food soil is protected against degradation.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3261	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 to 6 and proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to determine a differentiated interest system for the Husbank.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up a public model for the calculation of future housing needs.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for the introduction of statutory housing plans for municipalities.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals that will stimulate several long-term landlords from the professional and voluntary sectors, including an assessment of the equivalence of depreciation rules for the construction of residential projects with long-term rentals from the professional and voluntary sectors with the depreciation rules for commercial buildings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3293	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate an increase in housing around the public nodes.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3311	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish new grant schemes through the Husbank in order to stimulate increased renewal and densification of existing housing stock.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the pilot scheme of coordination of state objections permanent and to ensure that it is extended to all counties.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3335	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to reverse the changes in the start-up loan regulation so that young people with low equity become a target group for the start-up loan again.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3354	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3359	Then we'll register it. The representative Hans Olav Syversen should have voted in favour. Then there are 59 votes against and 47 votes in favour. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3379	It shall not be counted against II. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it. The President makes it clear that here it is important to keep track of red and green, because this is a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3395	This vote we have to do again, because the votes are a little bit fuzzy. So the Right Party, the Front Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3409	It's going to wrestle over you. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote in favour. The President then has the basis to believe that you will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3437	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–4, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish one digital entry port and key for all public platforms.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward with proposals to address the privacy challenges related to the use of large data, with the aim of creating better public services.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a model system from the United Kingdom to test new services for real users with freer rules and stricter supervision, where one uses user experience to develop solutions before scaling up the new services.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate a system of responsible hacking with the aim of securing public computer systems.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3473	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the possibility that all the public knows whether a person should also know for himself. Natural exceptions will be matters of investigation, national security considerations and other specific cases.’ 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote a case in which measures are proposed to reduce vulnerability and ensure national control over critical ICT infrastructure.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3510	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kjell-Idar Juvik on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Abid Q. Raja on behalf of Left proposal No 3, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the impact on newspaper distribution before a transition from two to one mail stream can be implemented.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3539	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all are delivered on Saturday newspapers in line with Storting’s intentions as soon as possible.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3556	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the future, the cancellation shall also be notified of ownership of the Post Norway AS. The obligations laid down in the Staff Regulations shall be continued.`; [[Section 10 plan]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3598	It shall be counted against III and IV first. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3612	It is voted on over I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3693	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3703	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3746	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3756	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3782	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to Stortinget with a strategy on how Norway and Norwegian competence can take a leading position in the development of fully and partially self-propelled vehicles and ships. The size asks the government to propose measures to support national test and pilot projects in the various transport sectors [[car, bus, truck, ship]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to take the initiative of a public inquiry in order to obtain an overall assessment of the different aspects of the introduction of wholly or partly autonomous vehicles and ships in the transport sector in the coming years. [[NUE]] The investigation must provide, inter alia, assessments and recommendations in the following areas: Changes in the rules, responsibilities, privacy The future interaction between vehicle/ships and infrastructure, how this will affect society's investment needs in road and freight terminals, etc., and how governments may control this development, if appropriate Challenges and opportunities for workers in the transport sector Capabilities and limitations for resource saving and sharing economy resulting from automation.’» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3839	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left the proposals No 2-7, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-7, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that knowledge of health care priorities is given a central place in the management training, curricula and follow-up training for the health and social sciences.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure implementation of the priority criteria in the services and to inform the Size annually about the status of the work.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘By June 2017, the government is asked to provide a thorough evaluation of the impact of the increased ISF on treatment provision and priority decisions in hospitals, and to submit this to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to maintain the general contribution scheme.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to raise a case for the Storting, which ensures transparency of pharmaceutical prices and rebate agreements between the pharmaceutical industry and the State.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision-making board is asked by the government to move the decision-making forum out of the health care establishments and into the administration, and to bring the matter before the Stortingen on the scheme.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3893	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of current funding of hospitals and to investigate alternative funding models that ensure that the economy is not governed by the healthcare provided to patients.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3929	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to increase the knowledge of mononucleosis/kiss disease and what can be done to prevent long-term outbreaks of disease and attenuate the health of young people affected by the disease.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e3962	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Odd Omland on behalf of the Business Committee. The President shall draw attention to the fact that the proposal has been submitted after the regulatory period laid down in Section 40 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President has reason to believe that the proposal is intended to be unanimous and therefore proposes that the proposal be referred to voting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Business Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision: I On 1 December 2016, the Government of the ESA Council of Ministers asked the Government to maintain Norway's payments to ESA's voluntary programmes at the current level until a new space strategy was addressed, i.e. 150 million. the euro in new commitments. II The government is asked to develop a Norwegian space strategy with four key strategic areas: 1st@item: inlistbox Climate and environment 2nd@item: inlistbox Technology transfer 3rd@item: inlistbox Social security 4th@item: inlistbox Research and training III The government is asking for the following: 1st@item: inlistbox Update and renew the instruments from the Report. St. 32 Between Heaven and Earth: Norwegian food and beverage space activities. [[2012-2013]] 2nd@item: inlistbox Evaluate a «Space leadership council» directly under the Minister of Industry – an advisory body for the development of Norwegian space activities with senior industry/academia members. 3rd@item: inlistbox Evaluate the establishment of a new national space programme. 4th@item: inlistbox Work towards a new and better organisation of the Norwegian Roma Centre, with a mandate that is ambitious, targeted and nutrient-oriented, and making the centre the tip of the spear to implement the strategy. 5th@item: inlistbox Consider establishing a new space technology programme in cooperation with Innovation Norway, for the development of new technologies and technology transfer. 6th@item: inlistbox Coordination and strengthening of education and research in the field. 7th@item: inlistbox Develop Norway as the leading space nation in the Arctic. Eight. Develop a long-term strategy for cooperation with ESA, with the aim of strengthening national returns from ESA programmes.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4031	As a consequence, the Committee's position on I, II and III is therefore deleted. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4055	Case No. 12–13 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 8 and 9. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4152	Thus, today's map has been processed. The representative, Jonas Gahr Støre, has asked for the floor before the sitting is closed, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure. The President agrees that the representative be given the floor, thus giving the floor to Jonas Gahr Støre, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4159	We should now have been considering a budgetary agreement, in accordance with the normal budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy. But we have no budgetary agreement to deal with. We were about to prepare the debate on a budgetary union now, unless one week or less. But we have no budgetary unity to debate. I took the word in this room two weeks ago to underline the difficult situation the government has now put the Storting in. I took note that the presidency, wise of lessons from last year, shifted the deadlines for both the vote and the debate. But I then stressed that further postponements would put the rest of the Storting in an unacceptable situation. Since there have been new deadlines set by the government, and they have been broken, one by one. This afternoon we have become aware that the Left has broken the budgetary negotiations with the government. It creates further uncertainty as to whether the cooperative parties are able to provide the country with a budget. The lack of clarification about next year's budget has now been so long that the actual treatment of the budget for 2017 is marked by urgency. Many come in time as a result of the delays. Local politicians all over the country are making budgetary decisions without knowing what the framework will be. We get feedback from them, small and large municipalities: become e.g. the cut in support of resource-intensive users? I'm being cut off for teachers at high school, and so on.? And business doesn't know what tax regime they're going to deal with next year. The deadline announced by the Presidency to the Stortinget, which was to lay the framework for the treatment here in the Stortinget, is broken. The government seems to have lost control of this budgetary procedure. That's not how you run a country. That is why I would like to ask the President once again the question: When will the Storting – the opposition parties – get clarity on what will be the basis of a financial debate that is less than a week away?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4176	The starting point for the financial debate is, of course, the decision of the Financial Committee. What negotiations are conducted between the parties in the Grand Duchy is not, in principle, the Presidency concerned. It is a matter in which we have no opportunity – and should not – to intervene. That being said, it is clear that the progress of such negotiations is also important for the decisions we have to take on the progress of the proceedings in Stortinget. Having a clear majority makes the process easier and more predictable. I consider it a natural part of the political culture that applies and needs to be applied in this Chamber, that the results of the negotiations had to lead to, also be notified to the opposition, so that, within the framework of the negotiations, there is, of course, an opportunity to prepare for the debate. So whether or not such a negotiated outcome exists is not something the presidency can influence. It's a matter of the parties. When the presidency draws up plans and makes recommendations to the Storting on what deadlines will apply, we will of course do so against a backcloth, which is about what is the main task of the Storting, namely to be able to take the decisions necessary to govern and run the country after 31 December. All the decisions we have recommended make such decisions possible under any circumstances, no matter what the outcome of the financial debate may be. As we see it, the Storting will have time and capacity to do what the Stortinge is going to do. I have today had a meeting with the chairmen of the various committees in which we have examined the draft budget and the dates for the budgetary procedure, in the course of the financial debate. We have shifted the time-limits for discharge from the very point of view of the proper functioning of the committees. I have also, in the same meeting, taken the views of the chairmen of the Committee on what is needed to ensure that such treatment can be done in a good way. We have had as our starting point that we should change the deadlines and the dates of the debate set out in the preliminary timetable, and I believe that, within the current conditions, we should master it reasonably. Both politically and administratively, we have taken into account the budgetary procedure within the given time and within the dates set for the session. As I see it now, the basis is that we should be able to carry out the budgetary work and take the necessary decisions, present, without having to extend the session.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4189	The President will now open up the possibility that the other groups will have the floor once every three minutes and then ask and the President-in-Office will have the floor one more time for up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4194	Of course, the country is going to have a budget, and it's right, as Jonas Gahr Støre says, that the government is still working to get the country a greener budget that gives more jobs and better well-being. Harald Tom Nesvik, parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, and I called the four parliamentary leaders of the opposition on Saturday to say that we will do our utmost to ensure that the Storting will of course have time to move around before the budget debate next Monday. But it's demanding, it says itself. Now the Left has broken the negotiations. The Christian People's Party has not yet given feedback; they have important meetings tomorrow where they will clarify. But in any case, we will try to make everything right for the Storting to be clarified, so that there is time to respond in the debate. It is difficult for a minority government to obtain a majority for a government budget. I listened to the radio instead, from 1996, a new finance minister, Jens Stoltenberg, who could breathe out on December 20 when the budget was adopted. That was right last year with the old budgetary system, and that was maybe a reason one did something about it, where everything was in play until the last. There have also been many other situations where a minority government has had to work for a long time to get a budget in place. We're going to keep working. We hope we get a consensus. We hope that we will get a clarification, so that the Stortinget will have the time to discuss the budget properly, but there will be a budget debate on December 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4205	I can assure the Storting that it has been working intensively, and it is still working intensively, trying to find a solution. It's obvious that everyone's earned that you're going to find a solution for the hall as soon as possible, so you know what you're dealing with. As the representative of Greece also pointed out, there have been difficult negotiations, and there are difficult negotiations. You only have one thing in mind, and it's just to come to an agreement, a consensus as quickly as possible, so that we get as good a budget as possible. I'm not going to go into the political part of it, it gets signed and the hall to discuss when we get to December 5. That is where the budget debate is, and that is when the framework has to be distributed. We're going to get back to that then. But, of course, as the representative of Greece was involved, we want to contribute to the Committees being given the deadlines and the opportunity to do their work properly and in a good way. It has now been announced by the Grand President in his reply to the representative Gahr Støre, including in the meeting with the chairmen of the Committee, to ensure that the committees are given the time they need to make their views known to the Stortinge. But as I said, it's difficult negotiations, and we're doing our utmost to try and find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4214	I am pleased that both the representative Trond Helleland and the representative Harald T. Nesvik have now stated that they should do their ‘opinion’ in order to clarify a difficult budgetary situation. There is no doubt that it is particularly the responsibility of the government parties to ensure that the budget presented by the government, including with adjustments, is carried through in this Chamber. I am pleased with the meeting with the committee chairmen, to which the President-in-Office took the initiative today, where, on the basis of that initiative, we jointly arranged a plan to ensure the proper consideration of the position of all the committees, when we now have a decision of some kind on 5 December. As far as I can see from that meeting, it was well received by all the committees that the Grand President had provided. Those who wanted adjustments were met, and it indicates that there is a great deal of willingness to ensure that we get a proper treatment of all the trade union budgets when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4221	Treating the State budget is the most important task that this Assembly is doing. The budget affects life and everyday life for people around the country. For the first time since the adoption of a new budgetary system in 1997, we are facing a situation where we can examine and adopt a budget on the basis of a loose proposal in the Grand Duchy. All time limits for processing have been broken. It does not seem that the minority government, from the Right and the Advance Party, has had a clear strategy on how to obtain a majority for their budget in the Storting. The four parties that have a majority in Stortinget and have committed themselves to cooperation must be responsible for the fact that we are in a rather chaotic situation today. The chaos that has arisen is a problem both for the government parties and for the cooperation parties, but also for the opposition. In an irresponsible short time, we're going to complete alternatives. But above all, the situation that has arisen is also a problem for all who will be affected by next year's decisions on the state budget. Since the submission of the State budget on 6 October, there appears to have been no particular progress. The deadlines we have had for dealing with the Storting have already been waived several times, including in terms of the financial debate and the financial position. That's why we need to express our concern about the situation that has arisen from the Central Party. A time necessity has been created that is also critical for many who are dependent on the state budget in the coming year. So I want to ask the President if he can assure us – we are only one month from there – that the deadlines under the Basic Law § 75 are also being met. If not, the Norwegian big business is going to be in a very serious situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4232	Has the President overlooked any of the party groups who wanted to speak? - She has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4238	There is a need to underline the seriousness of the situation we are facing. The clock is ticking, the possibilities for sound budgetary management are getting worse and worse. We have a finance committee that has had to give up voting without a majority – we get a financial debate without a majority vote. We can have a situation where the budgetary procedure in the individual committees becomes very, very demanding. It's a tough situation for the Storting, but it's not small things for the community around us we're talking about here. It is about the basis for the operation of welfare services in all municipalities in the country. It's about what kind of framework conditions it's going to be for our business. It's about what kind of tax arrangements each citizen should deal with. It's about how our country responds to increasing greenhouse gas emissions, etc. It is – I think, on a day like this, as we stand in this situation – in place to remind you that the two government parties went to the elections on a slogan on ‘implementation force’. In view of that, this situation is a rather spectacular failure. It's essential that we get a quick clarification. I understand that the President is also in a difficult situation – now it is not the President who is responsible for the poor progress of the negotiations, but I hope that the President can also agree that the time for postponement of deadlines is now over, that we now have to get a clear answer as to whether there is a majority of the budget in this Chamber or not. I think it's important for the president to give that signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4249	Several have not asked for the word. The President then gives the floor to the questioner – who gets the floor once more for up to 3 minutes – and then to the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4256	I would like to thank the President for taking the initiative to meet with the committee chairmen today. I would also like to say that I understand that this is not a political matter in which the President can intervene. But the president has a phone call, and has the opportunity to say from and communicate to the government what is now the mood in Stortinget, so that it seriously cancels. It is now two months since this ultimatum was formulated, and I agree with what was said here: that we have had budgetary negotiations since 6 October without results. We haven't followed them, but we've followed the drama around them. Time limits are set, deadlines are broken, and so now we are seeing cooperation around the budget that is in disintegration. Then I hear from the representatives of Nesvik and Helleland that they will do their utmost to give the Storting time to change before Monday. I thank you for that. It's useful that we get a chance to do that. I interpreted the phone we received on Saturday, so that we would have time to make sure that it was either a result, or that it was news that it was not a result. It meant in plain text that we cannot go into this weekend without knowing it. That's a bad way to figure out if that's what you're adding to it. Finally, I would like to say that in Norway we are not used to getting into the situation that we are discussing the question of whether we will have a full operating budget at all from 1 January. It puts Norway in an uncertainty that we shouldn't have been in. We are ready from the Labour Party and prepared to be able to deal with it from Monday onward. But I would ask, because the President is responsible for the work here in the Chamber, that he wake up to this situation, so that we may have time to turn around and be able to do the work that is going on for us, from Monday to Monday – where, in any case, there will be conditions around this budgetary procedure that should not be worthy of this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4267	I can assure the representative Gahr Støre that I will not only follow the developments in the negotiations from the sideline, but that I have also done so over some time. It is obvious that this House will be able to deliver the necessary decisions to govern the country after 31 December. The budget decision of last year applies as known only for the current year, and that we are to ensure that the country can be governed under the Constitution, is a matter of course. I believe that we take that into account, and that we are involved in the work we are doing on progress in the procedure. It is also clear that there will be a debate on Monday. There are no delays of any kind, no matter what one has been able to negotiate – or not. That is, of course, because Monday is going to give us the final explanation of what is the situation in the budget. The Stortinget needs to be able to make the necessary decisions to fulfil our tasks under the Constitution. I would like to say that we have a political culture in our Parliament that I am proud of. Even in difficult situations, I feel a strong understanding, from both sides of the policy, of what is also Parliament's task as such. We have shown by several crossroads that we are also finding out in difficult situations, and that we are maintaining the discipline and general interest in the country that is going to take us down. Not all parliaments in the world are like this, and I am proud to be able to lead a parliament that carries such a culture with it. In today's meeting with the committee leaders, we had a good discussion on how to complete the work on the budget. There is no doubt that deferrals mean more work and more stress. At the same time, it's important, and we've given the space to do the work properly. I am convinced that by this crossroads we too will be able to deliver what Stortinget will deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-29.ana.ud59e4280	This concludes this debate. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what happened. The meeting has thus been cancelled.
