ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e32	The President of Parliament is on an official visit to Norway. He's here today at the mall. [[Applause from the Chamber]] Welcome! The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will make two representations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e39	On behalf of the representative Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to develop a national alcohol strategy. And then, on behalf of the representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Anders Tyvand, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself, I would like to make a proposal on a comprehensive escalation plan for children and young people's mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e46	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e60	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e72	Document 8:141 S is a representative proposal from Rigmor Aasrud, Kjersti Toppe and Audun Lysbakken to secure the Skeivt archive in Bergen. Skivt archive was established as a project at the University Library in Bergen in 2014, and the committee will praise the University of Bergen for starting the project. The project has taken on a long neglected area of cultural history – history related to the life experiences of lesbian, gay, biphilist and transhumance, hereinafter LHBT. This is an important story that must not be forgotten. The University of Bergen is a wide university. At the same time, the university invests in the long term, both in a professionally wide environment and in an internationally-profiled professional environment with acute competence towards thematic problem settings. The project is part of the Special Collections Department of the University Library of Bergen. The aim of the project is to preserve archive and library material, as well as to collect oral life memory – video interview. It's lucky that such an important archiving project is under one of our universities. Skivt archive has been funded with internal support from the University of Bergen and the University Library, as well as external funds from the Norwegian Cultural Council and the National Library. The University of Bergen is known for being, and should be, an international research university, and all activity is based on academic freedom and curiosity-driven research. The university’s mission is to contribute to society’s competence through research, education, dissemination and innovation. The Faculty and the University Museum represent our most important knowledge arenas and are therefore well-suited to execute a project as a Skivt archive. The University is committed to demonstrating the relevance of research and education. I mean mining and knowledge dissemination is an institution for the development of academia and a democratic society. Norway has a special responsibility for running LHBTs because it has a history, a set of values and a law that makes this possible and desirable. Therefore, Skeivt archive can also become an important Norwegian contribution to the international work on the rights of LHBT people. At the same time, Skeivt archive will be able to help raise awareness in Norway about LHBT history, and behavioral changes where prejudices are still active. It is a national responsibility to ensure evidence of developments in society and the management of this history. It's urgent to collect crooked history in Norway, and it's important to obtain stories and material that can document this story before it's lost. As a hordal, I'm convinced that the University of Bergen will be the best institution to run this project, as long as they get the financial resources they need. On behalf of the Right Party and the Progress Party, I will refer to the budget agreement of 23 November 2015, where 5 million were paid. kr to Skeivt archive. I would like to extend a special thank you to our good colleagues in the Christian People's Party and the Left who gave priority to this in the debates. These funds are transferred to the Ministry of Knowledge, since this is the right address for university funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e89	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good review. I'm not going to make any long speeches, I just need to say that on an incursion the Christian People's Party has fallen out of a note from the Right and the Advance Party where it just refers to the budgetary negotiations. Of course, the Christian People's Party is fully behind what was done in the budget negotiations, among other things. These 5 million. kr to Skeivt archive, which we of course support, because it is important to be able to document the history of LHBT people, and so gather the knowledge we have about this in such an archive. So I just needed to clarify that of course we agree with what we've been involved in negotiating in the budget negotiations, including the 5 million. kr to Skeivt archive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e94	The size must facilitate the history of lesbians, gays, biphiles and transhumances in Norway to be accessible to the public. It is gratifying that the Skeivt archive received funds from the State budget, as requested in the draft representative. The centre lot assumes that a solution involving state resources and permanent operation will also be continued in the future. Permanent operation within reasonable reasonable reasonable limits is an obligation to operate an archive in the long term and well. Skating archives contain stories that have great value for society not to forget and keep alive. Norway needs a permanent national LHBT history centre. When Kim Friele donated her private archives from about 50 years of work to the University of Bergen in 2013, she made a decisive contribution to an important historical work in Norway for many years to come. Archive files now contain archive material from both people and organizations, books and journals. Part of the work may say to be time-critical, at the same time as it is continuous. One example of this is oral collection, where early LHBT history – fortunately, I get to add – is often quite different from contemporary history. Both perspectives are important to get as complete a picture as possible, not just of the crooked history, but of Norway's history. When Friele gave up her archive in 2013, she pulled out in Bergensavisen The Norwegian linked in 1948, later LHH, her fight to abolish the ban in the penal code in 1972 against what was called sexual intercourse between men, and to get rid of the diagnosis of the disease. It's not that long since this, but it still seems a long time ago today. Since 2008, we have had common marriage laws for heterophilic and gay couples. Of course, this is also important political history, and it is an important societal task to document the way here in a real scientific way, not least because lesbians, gays, biphiles and transhumances can take their dishes far from being self-said – in the rest of the world even less than in Norway. Discreet archives are also important from a public information perspective. It is a continuous effort to promote knowledge and respect that everyone in the Norwegian community should have the right to a good life without discrimination. Me and the Center Party believe that the archive is in the best hands at the University of Bergen and the University Library. The Department of Special Collections at the University Library of Bergen, as proposed, has «food competence in the storage, preservation and dissemination of archive material». The archive has a solid anchoring in an organisation with infrastructure, equipment, depot and expertise to handle cultural historical archive material. Skewed archives are part of the national documentation of our common history, and the Central Party wants permanent operation to be ensured so that it can be further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e109	A broken archive in Bergen covers a gap of knowledge in Norwegian political, social and cultural history. One would like to say that homosexuality, feminism and gender equality are several sides of the same thing. But while women's movement and feminism are well documented and extensively studied, history of the liberation struggle for sexual orientation and gender expression does not have our subject to the same systematics and efforts. This archive fills this space in the Norwegian archive, library and museum sectors by being a national archive and centre of LHBT history. During the short time they have existed, they have collected archives, conducted an interview, created websites with extensive information on Norwegian history and assisted with their own research and initiation of student projects and research elsewhere. The archive has all of this with very small resources – disappearing little in relation to what has been done on other corresponding archives and museums and centers that are directed towards minority history. The change in criminal law in 1972 was not long ago. It's a story that's really worth noting, and it tells a lot about the emergence of modern Norway. Documentation, research and dissemination are crucial for the preservation of history. It makes a Slide archive an invaluable national resource. The environment in Bergen, not least the University of Bergen, which has taken national responsibility entirely on its own initiative, should have much of the era for Skeivt Archive to come into place. The desire for a homo-historical archive, and for that part of the museum, and the desire to collect homo-historical documentation, is something that has been on the agenda for a long time. The idea was first aired in the Network for Research on Homosexuality at the Institute of Crime and Judicial Sociology at the University of Oslo, led by Turid Eikvam. Leif Pareli at the Norsk Folkemuseum has also been important. But it's Tone Hellesund and Runar Earth River that should have the honor to never give up. This is a good example of success by several good forces working together towards a common goal. When we talk about good forces working together against common goals, I will also point out that there has been a wide alliance in this house too to take a given with historical injustice and prevent discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Those who have worked and stood on in this matter shall have their rightful place in the history of the Skeivt archive now secures documentation of. As former Secretary-General of the Left, and as one who has had the Left House as a job for nine to ten years, I thought it would be appropriate to remind you that the term 'dead' in Norwegian homosargon has a very special history, with a clear connection to the first outdoor place where it was allowed for homosexuals to meet. It was a discotheque called Keiva because it was right in the House of the Left. I would like to quote from a newspaper article in Aftenposten 23 October 2008 led in the pen by Hilde Lundgaard: «Left House in Oslo 14 April 1972: There is a big party and an unpredictable atmosphere in the premises. That same day, the Stortinget has lifted the hated paragraph 213, paragraph as stamped men who had sex with men as criminals. - There was a bit of crying. But a great celebration with both polonese and waltz, before we knocked out our hair with dragshow and cabaret, remember the then leader of DNF-48, Karen-Christine Friele." Friele thinks the big moment when she sat at the gallery in Stortinget on Friday, April 14, 1972: ‘Right turned at the last moment, and declined the requirement for increased paralysis. Thus, Kr. F. alone again. - I'm a big cryer. Afterwards, I was invited to the room by Arne Kielland, the crumb to drive the matter through. On both skirts and high heels she threw herself in a pure enthusiasm about the neck of Kielland, and heard Bent Røiseland remark: – Friele then. I didn't think you were flying on men." The release of the future to the Skeivt archive was secured in the state budget for 2016 was an important and priority issue for the Left in the negotiations with the government party – not because the gathering was about a lot of money, but because for a social-liberal party, it is valuable both to remedy the state wrong done and to secure important stories for the afterlife. I think I'm going to quit there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e137	It is gratifying that there is such broad agreement on the desire for a sustainable financing of the Skeivt archive. Those of us who come from Bergen may be a little extra proud that the initiative for this has come into our city. I want to link some words, just as the representative Breivik did, to what kind of story it is that we are now saying that we want to document and take care of. It's the story of a very dramatic and very important liberation fight. It is not unnatural that this archive should lie in Bergen, because of many of the people who stood up in this, and also because part of the important episodes of this struggle took place in Bergen. The goal of the Skeivt archive, which has initially been built up by volunteers, but for which the University of Bergen has taken a very positive responsibility gradually, is to document the life experience of lesbians, gays, biphiles and transpersonals in Norway and the political and cultural struggle that has led to the right to be who you are, to love whom you want, and to live the life you want. I still think it is important that Stortinget takes an additional responsibility to document this. It's clear that this is within what we can assume, for example. The University of Bergen does itself, but I think it's worth and right that the Stortinge takes an extra responsibility, not least because the robberies of the great community that took place against these people for so long were anchored here in this hall. This is where the laws were passed, but it was also – fortunately – where they were lifted and the discriminatory laws disappeared. On behalf of SV I would also like to say that I am proud of the role our party has played in this story. It was the representative of the SF Arne Kielland who proposed to lift the ban, and it was SV's Siri Hall Arnøy who promoted the first proposal for a gender neutral marriage law in Norway. I think it is still our job to help correct the violations that the law of Stortinget in its time was responsible for. Expressing our clear desire for the permanent operation of the Skeivt archive I think is one of the things that can contribute to it. I am pleased that the majority parties have come with the appropriations they have made in their budgetary procedure. I am pleased that we were able to promote a joint proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. Then I would like to stress the importance that we get lasting solutions, that once the project period is completed, we get a permanent operation of the archive, both because it still has a great task to do in collecting historical knowledge, and also because this archive can play a role, as the representative Breivik and the representative Navarsete said so well, in a future effort to spread the values that are now behind the Norwegian law, also internationally. The awareness of what it has cost, the awareness of what kind of people have gone before in order to create the tolerance and the acceptance that, after all, exists in Norway today, can also be important to inspire people in other countries who do not have the freedom to be themselves, love whomever they want, and live as they wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e154	Like the previous speaker, the Labour Party believes that ensuring evidence of society’s development and management of LHBT history is a national responsibility. We feel that it is urgent to collect crooked history in Norway, and that it is important to document stories and material that document LHBT history before it is lost. We refer to our alternative budget – a budget of 5 million. kr – and our proposal which reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to secure Skeivt Archive at the University of Bergen permanent operation through a fixed state grant of the State budget.’ I am addressing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e168	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has taken up the proposal she referred to. The next speaker is Councillor Linda C. Hofstad Helleland. The President will take the opportunity to welcome Hofstad Helleland to the Stortinget as State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e173	Thank you very much! I first want to wish the Stortinget a good new year, and in particular I want to greet the Culture Committee, with which I look forward to constructive and good cooperation for the benefit of the whole field for which we work. ‘Friends, welcome from Sodom Parks and Lesbos Beaches, from barricades and the well of enterprise. [...] Friends and friends of friends, welcome under a purple sky tab with the warm light from a triangular sun.» These words are from 1985 and belong to the author and translates Tormod Haugen. The quotation can be found on the website of the Skeivt archive – a great place to find knowledge about Norwegian history: from disease diagnosis and ban on homophilic living to recognition and special protection. Filed archives include documents from persons and organisations that have contributed to this development. And here's a lot of both polite and touching reading. For example, the archives of Siri E. Kvalheim document the initiatives for the creation of the handball team Aphrodite and a European handball cup for lesbians. Kirsti Malterud's archives show the launch of Oslo Health Council's gay advisory service in the 1970s. The evening post had a portrait interview with Kim Friele last year. I read that with great interest. The lady, who has been both killed and harassed, has as well known a good dose of humor. When she was denied a visa to the United States because of her sexual orientation, the lady in the bar said jokingly, "We have to protect the president, you know." Then Friele repeated, "You mean, you have to protect MRS. President!" It's not just known homofiles, like Kim Friele, that come up in the Skeivt archive. The archive also opens up a documentation of our own time and how sexual minorities experience it. They are told anonymously about their own experiences, and the reading of their articles says a lot about the time we live in – at good and bad. Our cultural heritage includes tangible and intangible values that we choose to include in the future. The archives are part of our cultural heritage. In the Archive Act, Stortinget has ordered state and local authorities to keep their documents in order to make them available for the future. On the other hand, this record-keeping requirement does not apply to individuals, organisations and enterprises. The Swedish Archives Agency has therefore recently adopted a strategy for working with private archives because many private archives have great social value and interest. But someone has to choose which private archives to keep so that they become available for the future, and thus also become part of our cultural heritage. In the public archives in Norway, homophilia is largely documented either as criminal acts or as a psychiatric diagnosis. That's exactly why the decision we're making to support today is so important, because the private archives give a completely different perspective. The history of — and the fight for — gay rights and life stories can be found primarily in the private archives. Based on the strong historical expertise in this area, the University of Bergen chose to build the private archive collection Skeivt archive, and here, individuals are going to have a lot of credit for this being in place. Thus documents from this history are part of our cultural heritage. In the budget negotiations last year, the Left raised the proposal for permanent operating aid to the Skivt archive. The proposal from the Left sought specific support for a real opportunity. I therefore understand that you in the left are especially proud today. I am also pleased that the other cooperation parties joined, and I am also pleased with the initiative that came from the opposition, which means that there is a total accumulation and broad consensus that it is a national responsibility to collect and maintain and disseminate private archives on lesbians, gays, biphiles and transpersonals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e208	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e211	I forgot an important detail. Since SV does not have room in the committee, we are also not behind the proposal in the vote. But as I mentioned in my post, we want the Skivt archive to receive a permanent allocation. So SV will vote in favour of the proposal that the Workers' Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e216	The last post from the Light Hill showed that drawing was even important, because it must be a never so little misunderstanding if both the Light Hill and the representative Haukeland Liadal believe that the decision of the Cooperation Party when we adopted the 2016 State budget does not mean fixed operating aid, cf. also what the Minister for Culture just said in conclusion in his speech. As you can see, the proposal put forward by Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party, and as the Lighthouse has said that SV is going to support, is strictly unnecessary. So I respect that there may be a need to highlight a point of view. So there's no doubt, and so it's also said by the signatures, as the representative of the party that took the initiative in the budget negotiations: $5 million. of course kr is synonymous with a fixed annual operating premium. And of course, it can always be a question of whether they need the same sum every year. There's no doubt that Skeivt archive needs an extraordinary amount of money in a period when they're going to build an offer, but I think we have an open, good dialogue with the University of Bergen about later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e223	As a skewed voice, I would like to praise the Stortinget for today's decision. I represent a generation that is the sunny side of a long story. For me, growing up as a homophile has been completely unproblematic. I think it is important to say that today, because it says something about what we are deciding today to document, and also what time perspective is behind that fight. That is why it is most grateful to those who did that job in the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. It's still that there are some stories to tell and document, and they belong in a way to my father's generation and grandpa and grandma's generation, which are also subject to the decision today, because it makes the space of action of Skivt Archive a little bigger to document a few of the voices that are still not archived. It is also an important aspect of this debate that the Council of State draws up in terms of the principle aspects of private and public archives. Just this case shows how important it is to include the private archives. Of course, the debate on who should be included is important, but it is a debate we need to have in the future, because the amount of information is increasing. Digitally documented opportunities are also increasing, and interaction between public and private sectors is therefore becoming important. We will in the future meet similar issues that need to be documented, and where the public does not necessarily have the capacity to do so. There will still be an exciting debate on the principal aspects of this matter, which it has also raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e234	There is a need to clarify that this case was raised by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre as a representative proposal because these parties believe that it is an important and national task to ensure and document the history of the LHBT, both its shadow pages and its positive sides, and therefore there is a need to ensure the permanent operation of the Skeivt archive through a fixed annual grant from the State budget. There are doubts as to what the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties really involves. It has been raised in the public debate, and we have also wondered about it. I am pleased that the representative Breivik here today says that the Left with the Christian People's Party has intended to secure, is just such a kind of permanent operation over the state budget. Therefore, it is strange that the government parties in the note in the setting write that they ‘explains that Skeivt Archive has been initiated by the University of Bergen, which receives annual operating appropriations from the State budget. In accordance with the established framework budget, the University of Bergen will decide on the further operational financing of the project’. Of these, it is not possible to read that the budgetary decision between the parties to the cooperation and the parties to the government involves permanent operations through grants from the State budget. So if the Christian People's Party and the Left believe, in line with the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party, that the Skivt archive is important and necessary to ensure our LHBT history, you vote for our minority proposal to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e246	The representative, Terje Breivik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e249	I think it is a little bad that we make political polemics out of a matter that is really so important, and that we are so agreed on – without repeating what I said instead. Everyone who's been involved in creating a state budget – and the Labour Party should have a story that says they have a memory that makes them know how it works – knows that once you've seen a sum in the state budget, it's a fixed operating bonus. What might also give cause for concern in the representative of Trettebergstuen now says is that she also actually insinuates a mistrust – that the University of Bergen, which has really taken national responsibility without having these funds in place, should not continue with it when the Stortinget then until they have said that 5 million. kr is the annual fixed operating margin for just a disk archive. So to repeat myself: this is strictly taking a completely unnecessary proposal to put forward from the Greatness Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e258	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e274	1,920 reports are so far — so far, well to note — revealed in the Stasi archive as reports on Norwegian conditions. This interpellation is about two things. First, how can we gain more knowledge of the cold war, which has largely shaped our country culturally and politically? Secondly, it is about this knowledge being useful and important in today's fight against violent extremism. On June 16, 2014, I had an interpellation on a similar topic. I will give honor to the Council of State for quick follow-up and good engagement in the matter. The cold war marked large parts of the world for over 40 years. In 1989 the freedom, hope and optimism of millions of people behind the Iron Curtain expired. Democracy won over the oppression of communism. In most Eastern European countries, dictatorships were shaken by the peaceful desire of the people for more democracy. But we know that there were Norwegian citizens spying on the dictatorships in the east. They spyed and reported on important internal and national issues. How could they enjoy the freedom of democracy while spying on a hostile regime and a repressive social system? Who were the Norwegian spies? We know a little bit about this. We have fragments of documented knowledge. We have a few very few judicial convictions. We have information in inaccessible archives, and we have a few fires in the media that are working perfectly to illuminate this shadowy part of our close story. Unfortunately, the lack of knowledge also gives ground to speculation, assumptions and conspiracy theories that neither bring anything good into the matter, nor bring us any closer to the truth. Information from the Stasi archive gives a strong indication that the Norwegian spies are often centrally located in Norwegian society. All 85 pst. Of the 1,920 reports on Norway sent to Stasi in their last 20 years, the issue was policy and defence. With this hindrance, I would say that it is striking how little academic interest there is in research in this field here with us. Fortunately, there are some honourable exceptions. Danish researcher Thomas Wegener Friis has taken the tour from Germany to follow this debate from the gallery. How many were they, the Norwegian spies? As I said, we have a small number of convicted spies for the KGB, but there is a lot of evidence that most people never got caught. In 2014, the documents from Vasily Mitrokhin were upgraded by the UK authorities. He was an archivist in the KGB until 1984. I want to praise Dagbladet and TV 2 for their thorough and comprehensive work on this material. The material may suggest that 40 Norwegian citizens worked for or had close contact with the KGB. In a report from the Police Monitoring Service dated January 2001, there are 16 named Norwegian citizens with links to the KGB. There is no reason to doubt this, writes the police surveillance service. 10 of the 16 named persons were associated with the Norwegian Foreign Service. It may be the subject of a later debate that it seems that very little, if at all, was done to follow up that report. Researchers at the Stasi Authority in Berlin wrote that over 30 Norwegian citizens cooperated with Stasi between 1969 and 1989. None of these have been detected or convicted. It gives us the following preliminary conclusion: that there were probably dozens of Northmen spying for the Eastern bloc, that some – or more – of these spies at the same time managed important national interests, that some – or more – of these spies were close to key decision-making processes in this country, and that then everyone went free. Unfortunately, we can also see that very little has been done in retrospect to find the spies. It may seem that the 1996 Lund Commission report and the 2001 recommendation of the Vixveen case were followed by a paralysing lack of political energy or motivation to raise this issue. Now, for the rest, the spying is criminally out of date. Is this true today? I have received this question many times, and the more I work on the matter, the clearer it becomes that this is not only topical, but also important. By reading recent open threat assessments from the PST, the E-Service and the NSM, it is clear that the intelligence of foreign countries towards Norway is increasing. The element of technology is greater than during the Cold War, but at the same time, research communities can tell that the basic thinking behind which intelligence organizations work is largely unchanged. For a country like ours, which is strategically located, with large natural resources, with few inhabitants and with a much larger neighbour, it will always be important to have good allies, strong defenses and, not least, good information about the intentions of foreign countries. In addition, of course, we have the current terrorist threat that reinforces the challenge. Therefore, past experience is very important. Therefore, knowledge of what worked and did not work is of great importance even today. We need to know more about how Norwegian spies escaped detection and punishment during the Cold War. Then we can avoid repetitions. Then we can better secure information, values and people. One of my initial questions was: how is it possible to enjoy the freedom of a democracy like ours and at the same time spy on a hostile regime and a repressive social system? That question is equally relevant today, with the emergence of foreign warriors and violent extremism. We know that many of the psychological and social factors that drive people into radicalisation processes are the same as before – regardless of ideological or religious driving forces. The Swarmerie of the authoritarian is nothing new. But if we are to prevent the swarm from becoming active action, we need to understand more about the motivation for radicalisation. So we have an important source of this understanding in our recent history, but in order to understand, we need to be able to put a life story behind what is today only as secret agent numbers in the hard-to-reach intelligence archives. There is a certain connection between the spy of the Cold War for Communism and today's foreign warriors. To understand today's radicalisation processes and prevent them, we need to know more about others who have taken a full step and supported an authoritarian and repressive view of society. Governments have taken a commendable initiative to deliver the maps with Norwegian citizens from the Rosenholz Cartoteket, which is in the possession of the United States. This map can help shed light on who the Norwegian Stasi spies were. I understand that the answer from the U.S. authorities is that additional material cannot be handed over. I find that disappointing from the United States, towards a close ally. At the same time, it may also be explained that those who were spies for Stasi often reported from and about several countries. Let me finally say a few words about the police surveillance service. Once I've worked on this topic, my respect for your work has increased. They had an important and difficult task during the cold war. Those hunting spies they knew were here, but not where or who they were. The time afterwards has given us knowledge that the spies were many, and that POT's services were absolutely necessary and decisive in a demanding time. That's why I end this round of the interview with the following questions: What degree of access and transparency does the Council of State want to serve as the basis for researchers' access to the archives of the then Police Monitoring Service from the Cold War?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e325	Let me begin by expressing a great appreciation for the considerable insight and commitment that the interpellant has shown over many years to acquire knowledge of cooperation between Norwegian citizens and the former East German State Security Service, known as Stasi. It is now more than 25 years since the East German state ceased to exist. This means, as the interpellant also pointed out, that any criminal offences, such as espionage committed by Norwegian citizens or persons associated with Norway on behalf of the East German State, are now criminal offences. It is true, as the interpellant points out, that no Norwegians have been convicted for espionage for the benefit of the GDR. Like the interpellant, I am concerned that, through studies of history, one can generally understand better what happened during the Cold War, and also what factors affected events and development. It is commonly known that the Rosenholz files are in American possession, and that is also the reason why we from Norway addressed a request to the US authorities for access to the so-called Rosenholz files relating to Norwegian citizens and persons related to Norway. For the sake of the whole, I also have to make it clear that former POT, now PST, had previously received some material relating to the relationship between Norwegian citizens and East German intelligence, as part of the follow-up to concrete issues. This is a very limited material. On the one hand, this is a response to several requests to the German authorities between 1994 and 1996, and on the other hand, to material received from a collaborative service. On the American side, we received feedback on our enquiry in May 2015. As the interpellant had in mind, the feedback indicates that, according to the US authorities, there is no other or additional material that can be made available to the Norwegian authorities. As this case now stands before the US authorities, it seems that there is no basis for following it further up against them now. Independently of the feedback from the US authorities, PST has informed that a working group has carried out a review of the relevant material in the archive in order to obtain an overview of what they possess of information that could be associated with the so-called Rosenholz files. The PST states that the review of the working group shows that POT received information on seven Norwegian citizens who may have been agents for Stasi in 1989 from a cooperating service. Six of these persons have been identified. I find reason to stress that being registered in the Stasis archives does not mean that one has committed criminal offences. However, it must be clear that Stasi shared operational information with its cooperating services and that persons involved with Stasi may have been subject to pressure from other countries’ services. In dialogue with the PST, the Ministry of Justice and Defence will assess the findings of the working group and the processes of possible degradation of this material. Provisional law on limited transparency of police records and records of 4 March 1999 established a time-limited access for individuals to the documents containing information on them from 8 May 1945 to 8 May 1996. For this reason, the transparency mechanism covered the time of the cold war — which is the subject of the interpellation. The provisional law was repealed with effect from 31 December 2007, when all applications and any appeals were completed. The final report of the Transparency Committee shows that a total of 12,764 requests for transparency were examined and that in 38,4 pst. registrations were found by the cases. Transparency was achieved by sending copies of the documents in question to the applicants. I understand that some applicants also chose to publish the material sent – making it available to the public via the Internet. The archives of the Transparency Committee were transferred to the National Archives at the end of the transparency mechanism. This material includes, inter alia: the original documents, which had been obtained in the course of the proceedings. With regard to the other records of the Security Service from the Cold War, I must stress that there are numbers and material spanning over a period of more than 40 years which affect relations with countries other than the GDR and which may have different approaches. PST has assessed a project for the liquidation of its own archives from the Cold War. A review of the entire archive material of the Cold War will be very extensive and will entail considerable costs, and it is therefore also exposed. Research in this area and in this historical material is important, both in the interests of historical understanding, and it can also have a significant transfer significance to present challenges of radicalisation. Researchers will be able to promote requests for access to the PST archive material. Under Section 13 of the Administrative Act, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has the competence to decide that an administrative body may or shall provide information for research where it exists reasonably and does not cause disproportionate disadvantage to other interests. I am determined that as far as possible we should be positive to the enquiries of researchers, but I also assume that the researchers contribute relatively precise descriptions, which enable such applications to be dealt with in reality. It is also possible for researchers with security clearance to enter the material and evaluate any correlations between the radicalisation processes of the time and the present, without exposing the names of persons or classified information. Such an insight by researchers can lead to an up-to-date report, which I think can meet some of the wishes behind the interpellation. Post-transview requests by several media in the last year have been downgraded and provided transparency in a number of historical documents. I think that is good, and it also shows that the PST takes this issue seriously. The security service of the police is subject to the confidentiality obligations laid down in the Administrative Act, the Police Act, the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Register Act. Furthermore, the Security Act will apply in this area. In addition, it will concern data protection issues, source issues, consideration of the operational activities of that type of service and, where appropriate, cooperation with the services of other countries. Consideration of such relationships will also have to be included in such an assessment. I'm positive to facilitate researchers' access to the material of the Cold War. At the same time, account must be taken of the fact that the nature of the material raises certain specific issues, which also need to be clarified in concrete terms. There are already mechanisms to enable researchers to apply for transparency on well-defined themes. If, however, there is a need to do something about the framework for the access of researchers in general, I am willing to ask the PST to take a closer look at it. At the same time, it may be difficult to find a solution that is effective enough, taking into account the needs of the PST within the current framework. It is also clear, as I mentioned, that part of the material of the Cold War is still relevant to today's inter-national relations. Although the GDR as a country is dissolved, it will be able to reveal such transnational links – in addition to the need to assess the considerations I have mentioned – and therefore require some manual work. I think it is important to stress the importance that we are as positive as we can be on the part of the authorities to provide a good opportunity for both researchers and others to gain insight into the issues mentioned here. I think it is important to stress that we have a radicalisation challenge in today’s Norway — and perhaps a finding of common features, perhaps there are many common features between what contributed to radicalisation then and what are radicalisation drivers in today’s Norway. We as a society need that kind of learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e357	I would also like to thank the Council of State very much for the answer that was given here. It was a very positive answer, and let me draw the back cover for exactly that assessment from my side: I had a corresponding interpellation to the previous government quite exactly four years ago. Then I also received a very positive answer, saying that the then state council would put “great strength” into the work on this topic. I had to follow up what was in that expression and in that follow-up, several times during the previous magnification period. The reality was that absolutely nothing was done. Nothing. The Council of State now gives an active approach, just as it did in June 2014. We saw it in 2014, it led to an action – with a result that I may not be as pleased with, and that is probably not the Council of State either. But we're once again confirmed that the government is concerned about this when we hear words like you're positive about organizing, you have to do what you can, there's a working group set up. And then we all know and understand that there are, of course, some prerequisites that must be met in terms of this demanding archive material and its handling – what affects the relationship with other countries, other nations, privacy, etc. But my interpretation of the Council of State's response is extremely positive, and it brings the matter far ahead of time, in order to gain a strengthened and renewed knowledge of what is in our archives and can benefit from today's situation. Then I will conclude with a new question to the Council of State, and it concerns what I will describe as Norwegian press its very serious and excellent handling of this matter. There are not many, but there are some editors and some journalists who have done a great deal of work to get the information we're talking about here, who have handled that approach in a serious and sound way. So my question is about media management of their social mission and how the Council of State views their access to this material. I understand that there is probably a different category of approach, but based on the experience with Norwegian media, I would say that we should trust this – so that they at least get an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e368	Let me first say that I thank you for the interpellant's view of the answer. I'm glad the interpellant is satisfied with that. There is no doubt that there has been a lot of work done in this area, not least to the US authorities, but as the interpellant also says, we got the answer we got, and there's a way of saying that. At the same time, we have access to some material myself, as I also mentioned in my answer. I'm very concerned that we should facilitate access for researchers, which is also mentioned in the interpellation. The question about Norwegian media is slightly different, but nevertheless very important. It's done a lot of good work on the part of some media to help create clarity around many of these relationships. I'm positive that the media can get some of this information provided that it's within the framework in which the PST can provide transparency. It's also important in terms of transparency, including media, that one is very precise in what one wants to see. The challenge will be if you get a very wide-ranging desire for transparency, which is very demanding for the PST to deal with practically within the current legislation. It'll put us on a much larger test than if you could be concrete in your assessment. But also here, it is important to include the limitations relating to privacy issues, as well as the other legal framework for that transparency. I am absolutely convinced that the PST will evaluate media transparency desires in this area in a serious and proper way too. PST, as I mentioned in my answer, has been busy going through its own material already, so there's been a lot of work in this field already, but we have to relate to the legal frameworks that naturally lie behind that kind of desire for transparency. I fully agree that what we've seen so far from the media in this area is well managed, but I still think it's important to bear in mind that there are strict rules on how to handle the material that has been obtained even during the cold war.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e379	First, I would like to commend the representative, Werp, who has shown a clear commitment to this topic over a longer period of time. Of what I can see, it goes all the way back to December 6, 2011, when the representative had an interpellation with the then state council Grete Faremo, and he followed up with a new interpellation with the state councillor Anders Anundsen on June 16, 2014. In addition, Werp has had written questions to both former Minister of Defence Barth Eide, answered on 29 June 2012, and former Council of State Faremo, answered on 17 July of that year, asking the representative to know more about how many agents were surveyed on this issue. In addition, Werp also asked questions in the questionnaire to Grete Faremo on 18 April 2012, among others. on when two researchers were to receive answers. What I have read through both the exchange of words, the questions and the interpellations with answers has been interesting reading. Once again, Mr. Werp has an interpellation on the matter, it points to genuine engagement around a theme that can have great historical significance and interest in the future, and which can provide not least an important insight into an important period of country history. The Rosenholz files contain copies of maps from Stasis' international service and consist of archive references, code names and real names of foreign Stasi agents. Much of that information about warp demand is known and available. Then I think in particular that the Lund Commission had this as one of its themes, what you did, and what you followed in this period. They were also in the GDR and checked, and all the materials from the Lund Commission, minus the name that came up, are available. They had a list of names, including one that made quite a lot of media attention when this became known. It can be speculated, and it's wondering why no more names have been made known. I think, as Mr. Werp said, having an open line in this is important to understand the story, not least in order to be able to go into the future with an open mind connected to the challenges that society is facing. In recent years different parts of this archive and the register have been made available, and the Americans are sitting on the so-called Rosenholz archive. There is different information on this with regard to Norway. It is claimed that the PST is on the material of which Norwegian citizens provided information to Stasi in 1969-1989. PST on its side rejects that they are sitting on material from Rosenholz. According to public sources, PST should be on copies of some card cards. They do not answer questions about this, but should not have disclosed this material to the Ministry. With regard to which governments and which state councils have given feedback, some assumptions, which are now pointed out by the Council of State, are difficult. There are many considerations regarding other countries, privacy interests, etc., which are unclear as of today. But an important initiative towards the United States has been taken to get this transmitted and to gain insight into it. I believe that both we in the Labour Party and former government councils find it regrettable that the United States does not deliver on this in view of the commitment shown. The parts of the Rosenholz archive dealing with German citizens were returned to Germany in 2003 and have been open and accessible to researchers since 2004. In 2011, researchers from both Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Germany invited the governments of the Nordic countries to make the material relating to Nordic citizens available to researchers. I think that's very important. It's about information that can give us insight and competence to solve today's and tomorrow's radicalisation challenges, etc. In the end, I would like to refer to the Council of State Anundsen's reply to Werp on Monday 16 June, where the Council of State stressed that Werp may not have received an answer to its commitment related to these questions from former government councils. I'm recording that because the involvement may be very large from the representative of Werp, there's kind of a status quo regarding the information we're looking for in order to get a better understanding of what happened in this period, and how we can meet this in the future. I think what the commitment of the representative shows is very important and necessary, and I don't think there are any political dividing lines in this particular topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e396	The Council of State had in its speech a reference to the Transparency Committee, which I believe did an important work in the wake of the Lund Commission's work, which clearly revealed that Norwegian citizens had been subjected to uninstructed monitoring, often on a failing basis. I can say that I participated in that work. I was an accomplice, but I met for a longer period of years in Per Maurseth's long-standing sick leave. Then it was also seen that these questions are not always as simple as it might seem, because it was a general perception in the public domain of the Lund Commission that POT’s — the then PST — activities were almost characterised and dominated by uninstructed monitoring. But that was not the case, because the members of the Transparency Committee also got a lot of knowledge that there would be situations where there would be a neglect not to go any closer to the seams to see what was happening. The question that the interpellant raises today is extremely important, because it means that we can now put together the pieces of the puzzle that history research is, and look at it from the other side as well, and see what motives and driving forces were behind the fact that some of our citizens were serving enemies of Norway, and that apparently had a stronger identification with enemies outside the country than with their own legally elected authorities, and a system in which to make their views valid through democratic processes. It's a general and timeless question, and therefore the historical interest not only has a professional interest for professionals who are involved in history, but this also has a learning aspect that we can bring with us. Of course, technological progress has progressed. It has increased the possibility of both espionage and counter espionage. But we never get past the fact that serving the country and taking sides for someone who is countering Norway's interests depends on a personal choice. That is why we need to see what driving forces, what parallel societies – political or otherwise – can increase the risk of having such activities. With regard to these initiatives and the research carried out on the basis of the archives that became available — some are in Germany and some are in the United States — it is becoming increasingly new because of the simple and prosaic reason that the archives were attempted to be destroyed when the collapse of the previous regime, East Germany, approached. So a lot of research is simply archaeology, in the sense that you're trying to re-establish documents that have been physically tried to destroy. I was, along with the interpellant and a number of other colleagues in our group, in the old Stasi headquarters, and we were in the office of the old Stasi boss and saw from the window what environment he had worked in. And what strikes you is that everything comes for a day – everything comes for a day. That is why historical work is so important precisely because it can also make us more suitable to take action in the future that makes us stand better rusted, because these are issues that come back – they only come back in other forms. I'll end by saying that this is an important interpellation. I also think – as others have been involved – that the interpellant has shown a continuing commitment. I also agree with the views expressed by the inter-pellant in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e411	I would like to thank the two who have had contributions in the matter for very good and positive contributions with an approach that I will join, and which also reinforces what I want to convey as a main message: that this is important because it is part of our close history, and that is important because it is relevant today in order to understand and counteract radicalisation and violent extremism. I listened with great interest to Asphjell, my good colleague in the Justice Committee, whom I have great respect for. The links with the Lund Commission, on which the representative Tetzschner was also involved, are entirely relevant. I might add that the mandate of the Lund Commission was more linked to the possible illegal surveillance of Norwegian citizens than to what might have legitimized why POT, as it was then called, did what they did. I thought the representative Tetzschner drew up that line very well and very clearly, which in previous interpellations has just been my point: that we have to continue the work that the Lund Commission has done, by keeping the lights on in the Norwegian intelligence archives – do not turn it off, as we might in many ways have done in 2007, when this temporary law expired. Thank you very much for what has been said about this chair. I note that this is not an interpellation that mobilizes the large quantities of my co-representatives at Stortinget. I also take it positively, because what has been said by the two representatives and the Council of State, builds up in many ways below and confirms what I wanted to achieve by raising the theme, namely, that we stand together here. This is not about party politics, it is about a common, cross-political desire to illuminate the past and to learn from it. It's been a good day today – I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e422	Finally, I would like to say that I believe it is very correct not to judge the importance of an interpellation based on the number of people who have posts in the case, but more on what is actually said in the posts being held. There I think there have been good reflections about the dilemmas that we are actually facing, which the representative Tetzschner presented in a good way. There is also a cross-political breadth and consensus on this, as the representative Asphjell made very clear. I think that's very positive, and it shows that at least there's a common commitment to this hall, and that there are no lines of conflict as to what a person wants to achieve. So I also believe that the debate shows very clearly the combination between getting clear what is our historical image, what is in our history, and how topical that story is actually in the everyday life we are living in today. When we see people travelling from safe, democratic Norway to fight for anti-democratic forces, with weapons in their hands, it is – without fully comparing it – at least the commitment that one has let himself be inspired by quite radical forces, anti-democratic radical forces. And the fact that we can learn from that story, I am absolutely convinced of. There's a lot we've learned already, but there's still a lot left. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Storting about the importance of knowing as much as we can know about this period. Then I am also very happy that there is an extensive respect for the framework we have to stay within of the work that is still to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e431	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e437	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e445	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to secure Skeivt Archive at the University of Bergen permanent operation through a fixed state grant of the State budget.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e473	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-21.ana.ud1133e485	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
