ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e123	There are two applications for a permit. from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal from 8 June onwards and until further notice from the Centre's Group on welfare leave of the representative Jenny Klinge from 9 June onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives of the More and Romesdal counties, Tove Lise Torve and Geir Inge Lien, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e155	Tove-Lise Torve is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Liv Signe Navarsete, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e160	On behalf of the representatives of Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, Marit Arnstad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for an independent legal assessment of the independence of supervision of the financial market in Norway and the relationship with the Constitution. I would also ask that the case be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e167	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e183	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group and 10 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e190	The police have always had the right to use hidden coercive measures to carry out their social mission, and all the governments in power have been involved in contributing to this. In order for the police to be able to adapt to a crime scene changing, we politicians sometimes need to consider what tools the police will have to use to investigate and combat crime. Although hidden coercive agents are legal methods, their use has often been a controversial issue. No one wants a monitoring society, and in our open and free democracy, privacy and legal certainty must be maintained at all times. Therefore, the threats to society and the way we face them must always be weighed and measured against fundamental democratic values. There are in particular two important driving forces behind the government's proposals that we are now going to debate in the Grand Duchy. First of all, we see that the police are faced with new and difficult tasks when the crime scene changes. Even if total crime goes down, we see a clear increase in the most demanding and organized crime. The global threat picture is becoming increasingly complex and unwieldy. Globalisation brings the world closer together, and for Norway and Norwegian interests, developments and events will quickly have serious consequences, including at home. The development of more cross-border crime calls for police’s ability to adapt. Conflicts, natural disasters and poverty are driving many refugees. Migrant flows have increased sharply in the last year, including in Norway. People in a vulnerable situation are at risk of being exploited by organised criminals and in the ultimate consequence become victims of trafficking in human beings. Increased immigration can also increase the risk of various forms of crime, including hate crime, labour market crime and drug crime. The number of foreign fighters who have travelled from Norway has doubled. In 2009, when the Methodological Control Committee presented its statement, the PST had knowledge of a handful of people who traveled to join extreme Islamic groups abroad. Today, the number of suspected foreign warriors is only about 90 to Syria and Iraq. Norway has become a clearer part of the enemy image among extreme Islamists. The PST considers it possible that terror will be attempted during the current year. In addition, the threat from right-hand extremes is considered to be increasing. The second driving force behind the matter we are now dealing with is technological development. The use of advanced encrypted communications is available to everyone. In many cases, encryption is done automatically, for example: by increasing the number of Internet clocks, such as Facebook, Google and Twitter, that encrypt all information flows to, from and between their users. Last week, the NRK introduced the same thing at home. This is good. Technology has given us innovative solutions, which safely promote value creation, trade and new social forms. But at the same time, new technologies are helping to make crime more cross-border. Criminals are oriented towards those countries that have the largest digital values. Norwegian businesses are increasingly exposed to online crime, and there are large numbers of them. PST warns that in recent years many intelligence organisations have been very active in obtaining information from Norwegian computer systems. Encryption makes much of the information that the police have legal access to, inaccessible. It gives the police considerably less opportunity to capture and prevent serious crime than they had just a few years ago. That increased use of encryption creates challenges for police and intelligence, is confirmed by the Lysne Committee, which was set up by the government, in the Digital Vulnerability Study — Secure Society. This backstop makes it necessary to strengthen the instruments that protect and defend Norwegian citizens and Norwegian interests. The government’s proposal on hidden coercive measures is based on a balance where the objective of effective crime prevention must be balanced against the interests of privacy and legal certainty. Privacy is an important democratic value, of course. At the same time, we must defend democracy against the forces that will destroy it. Privacy is generally protected by both the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC. The condition for the intervention of the authorities in this respect is that the purpose of the intervention falls within the exceptions set out in Article 8.2 of the EMC. National security, public security and crime prevention are the exceptions that allow for privacy intervention. Furthermore, it is required that the intervention is governed by law. Finally, intervention must be deemed necessary in a democratic society. The proposition details each of these conditions. I would also like to make it clear that several of the Committee on Methodological Control's proposals have been rejected by the government, bearing in mind that they are too intrusive. The proposals in the present proposal deal with a certain extension of the use of today's coercive agents. For example, communication control is also open to cases involving gross human trafficking, trafficking in human beings, detention and child abuse. In addition, a new coercive agent is introduced, namely data reading. It is important to clarify that the use of coercive measures is to be done on suspicion of the most serious crime. Legal certainty is ensured by judicial review of the use of coercive substances, in addition to never being used if not necessary for investigation or prevention. General principles of proportionality and proportionality always apply when there is a question of using a coercive agent. In addition, we have control functions through the Communications Control Committee and the EOS Committee, and the former is strongly strengthened. The Committee asks the government, in its examination of this proposal, to ensure that the Communications Control Committee lists the number of cases in which coercive agents are being used, the suspicions of the person and the hidden coercive substances that have been used. The methods proposed would have to involve obtaining a greater amount of information than at present. The Committee therefore points out the need for a review of the rules for the use, storage and deletion of surplus information by the government. The proposal to introduce data reading as a hidden coercive agent is probably the most controversial in the proposition. I am pleased that the proposal as such is widely supported here in Stortinget. This tool makes it possible, in the most serious cases, for the police and the PST to reveal information that would otherwise render encryption inaccessible. Nor shall the use of data-reading by police happen to most people, as some try to create the impression. The police shall only monitor the individuals suspected of having committed or going to commit serious integrity violations, such as killing, child abuse and terror. I would like to add that I am satisfied that the government did not consider banning encryption. Other countries have considered going to this step, which, in my view, would be counterproductive. Data reading is an intrusive method and it is difficult to find the correct threshold for when this is permitted. The majority of the Judicial Committee, after an assessment, has chosen to raise this threshold somewhat in relation to the proposal. This means that data reading cannot be used to detect simple drug abuse, simply drug-healing and negligent drug-healing. With this proposal, the government strengthens the fight against the most serious crime, such as terror, espionage and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Through the processing of the Storting, privacy has been further enhanced. I thank you for your cooperation with the Committee. I'm assuming that the respective parties are presenting their minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e230	The Labour Party believes that the police must have a tool that keeps up with the crime scene and the technological developments we have in the country today. It's about having to have the opportunity to do their social work in a good way, even at a time when society is as digitized as it is now. This development will be even faster in the future. That is why we support the need for the police to have access to new methods. At the same time, we believe that this bill from the Council of State has been a very difficult matter. The reason is that several of the methods are highly invasive. Some of them have had a low threshold for when they can be used, and can therefore be used in cases that are difficult to view as particularly serious. It is also demanding when the proposition does not highlight the consequences of the overall sum of methods now available to the police, for example. the importance it has for surplus information or for the source protection of journalists. This is part of what we have been promoting autonomous proposals on the matter. The proposal for surplus information has also been supported by the majority of the committee, and we are pleased with that. The Workers' Party has been in contact with police representatives in order to know as much about their challenges as possible. We have also met with stakeholders with insight into technology and its challenges and met critics of increased use of hidden methods to assess their objections. For us this has been absolutely necessary in order to be able to conclude in a good way in what has been a difficult matter. We believe that the legislative proposal is too weak in several areas, and more issues should be clarified, especially with regard to the new and necessary method of data reading and the practical and fundamental questions it raises. The proposal refers to Sweden and those who stopped the submission of a data-reading proposal, and it is shown that they will re-promote this. But there's nothing about why this was stopped, or what they're going to do differently in the future. The Swedish proposal was stopped because the Swedish Data Protection Authority considered it contrary to national law and the European Convention. On 16 May this year, the Swedish government launched a public investigation into data reading. This shall be delivered in the autumn of 2017. Where they order a comprehensive investigation on all aspects of the implementation of data readout as a police method: the extent to which there is, the extent to which the total number of methods is, how to process surplus information, the cost of use, technology, software, to mention something. In short, everything that should have been captured and illuminated in this proposition. In this case, the Workers' Party promotes a number of independent proposals. The main lines of our conclusions are that it was necessary to raise the threshold for the use of data reading from simple drug offences, simply to heal and negligently to heal serious drug offences and to heal badly. Otherwise, the use of methods would become disproportionate to the criminal act. We have received support for this from the majority of the committee, and that is a cooperation we have appreciated. We would also prefer that the majority resonate differently around the police law § 17 d, which concerns PST’s access to the use of preventative hidden methods. The majority provide uncritical access to the use of data reading, which is a rather invasive tool. Data reading as a preventative hidden method is very invasive, and it has the potential to challenge the Constitution. They rely on quotations from the Riksadvokat. However, the quotations do not refer to the police law § 17 d or prevention methods, they refer to the criminal procedural law § 222 d, the access of the police to use hidden methods to avert a criminal act and how to understand the term ‘dismissing’. The Workers' Party believes that preventive data reading under the authority of the Police Security Service is a method that should only be used in the most serious cases, such as preventing terrorist acts and terrorist associations, while the Right and Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party, will allow the prevention of threats to authorities. We can see that from the reference from the police law § 17 d to the criminal proceedings law § 216 o on data reading and the criminal law § 263. We promote an independent proposal on this limitation and hope that as many parties as possible will give their support to this and to this understanding of the seriousness of the Constitution § 102. Governments have proposed to increase the resources of the control committee so that the legal framework for data reading and other hidden methods can be superseded. We think that's good. But we should also like to see that there were procedures for controlling the software during data reading. We therefore propose the development of supervisory procedures for this, including for uninstallation. In a number of other areas too, we believe that the legislative proposal goes too far. So that's going to be equal to-- let's say that's going to be equal to-- let's say that's going to be equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say-- let's see. access to the use of communications control to locate communication facilities, i.e. the ability to track people under concrete suspicion, beyond the current provisions on personal technical tracing – which have a much higher threshold for use. In our opinion, the government has not argued satisfactorily for this in its proposal. They also provide an opportunity to track people to a far greater extent than at present by means of false base stations, without this being limited to their geographical location, the time period for suspected residence or associated with specific criminal offences. Instead, the police have been given a fairly broad access to use this method. We are promoting our own proposals in both of these areas, in order to define and make responsible. This bill is sometimes characterized by urgent work. We saw this particularly clearly in the question of hidden camera surveillance according to Section 202(a) of the Criminal Procedures Act. In the fifth paragraph, the second sentence says that camera surveillance can be both with and without the possibility of recording audio and image material. This would change Norwegian law in this field dramatically. Access to hidden monitoring of sound can be obtained through completely different paragraphs, such as: the provision for room listening, which has a higher threshold. When the Council of State was asked about this in the spontaneous question hour in May, he defended it. When he got the question again, in writing, he went back on it. We are pleased that the majority on Stortinget now joins the Workers' Party to remove the word "sound" from the provision on hidden camera surveillance. Finally, I would like to say that hidden methods are most necessary for the police. It's about detecting, averting and sometimes preventing serious criminal acts. It supports the Workers' Party. At the same time, these methods require good balances for legal certainty, privacy and democracy — isolated to the individual approach, but also to the sum of the methodology used. In a number of areas, the government's proposals are short. That is the background for our proposals in this matter. Then it only remains for me to address the suggestions we are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e266	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e269	It is an incredibly important matter The Storting today deals with. I think many, at least in retrospect, are going to be very pleased with the decision of the Stortinget today. We are living in a time when we are sadly experiencing that criminal gangs, organized crime, terrorists and sociable potential terrorists are still a step ahead of the police and the law. It's probably always been like that, but we have to make sure that they're not two steps ahead. We have new technologies that our law is simply not adapted, so I am very happy that the government has chosen to follow up the Methodological Control Committee, has chosen to take some important principleal position and promoted this proposition in a good way. I very much welcome the work done by the rapporteur, so I would like to thank the rapporteur, because the committee has also done an important job. Some try to make it appear that there has been disagreement between the Government/Minister of Justice and the Committee and the majority of the Committee. That's not how I feel. On the contrary, we have worked together to provide good clarifications in the Committee's position. Everyone knows that in the law work it is really incredibly important – the proposition, but also the balances, limitations and clarifications made by the Judicial Committee. We've been working on the case for a long time. This is not an urgent task, so this is the follow-up to the Methodological Control Committee from 2009 – many years ago. These are not proposals that come as lightning from the clear sky. These are proposals that have been followed up based on the NOU I mentioned, in addition to the fact that the chief PST, the police and others have been clear over several years that we need new methods in the work we are going to do to combat organised crime, serious crime and terrorism. On the contrary, the government has worked very evenly and tried to do this and got good clarifications in place. The Committee and the majority of the Committee have reinforced this, in my view. We're not going to see very far beyond our own boundaries until we see serious things that have happened in recent times. We don't even have to be outside our borders to share in experiencing terrible things. With the worldview we now have, it is important that the police get these new methods, but I am very pleased with the evaluations and clarifications made by the Committee in this matter, namely that this concerns serious crime, not crime at the bottom of the criminal framework statistics, so to speak. Checks shall be carried out both before and after. Privacy is not something that Stortinget takes lightly, nor is it the government. Is there anyone who spends a lot of time discussing privacy and the considerations about new methods of police and privacy, it's precisely the Storting, while I actually experience quite ‘depressive silence’ out there among the people most around these debates. While we have dealt with this matter, I have not received one enquiry from outsiders who believe that we are now going too far. It tells me something. What I experience when I'm out visiting people is that people are actually very concerned about the fact that the police have to be able to fight serious crime. And then, through good debate in Stortinget and in our attitude, we ensure that important considerations are taken up against privacy, so that privacy is maintained. Therefore, we have also been quite clear on this in several proposals that we promote in the vote – in addition to the law itself – not least II on page 29 of the vote: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that the Communications Control Committee keeps an overview of the number of cases of failure to notify, the penalties imposed by the person for a suspected offence, the type of hidden coercive measures used and the reasons for the failure to notify, so that it is possible to follow developments politically over time, and to avoid any slippage of purposes.’ So important decisions are being taken here today to put in place important information so that you can always balance this against privacy. I'm sure what we're doing today is the right and important step. I have registered that someone has been very busy presenting this as if you have not worked well enough on the matter here. I believe that what we have done has certainly been working well on this matter. Then I'm glad that the committee in very many important areas is almost unanimous, and it's an almost unanimous increase that is willing to say: Yes, we have to take in and give the police new methods and the opportunity to apply new methods and new technologies. I know, of course, that there are parties – at least one – that are going to vote against the majority, if I have understood the debate correctly. What I'm asking about is why you don't at the same time propose to remove the tools that the police have today, because in a number of these areas, there's no big difference in principle. Room monitoring is allowed and telephone monitoring is allowed, while data reading is not allowed. Some of these things I think are basically the same. If you are opposed to giving the police new methods based on the technology that is currently in place and available, I am surprised that you are not proposing to remove some of the tools that the police have today. But it would be going backwards into the future. Unfortunately, as I said at the outset, we have a number of criminals who will always be in front of us in relation to the law in this area. We have to make sure they don't get such a big and free play around that they can put the law check matt. I would also like to point out the proposal for Decision III on page 29 of the vote: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the Communications Control Committee 3-5 years after the entry into force of the amendment relating to hidden coercive agents.’; It is important that those who are going to control and follow up on this further do things in line with the legislator's intention, have resources and are able to do the job we ask them to do, so that there is a real control – both before and after – with judicial control, etc. So I'm a little concerned that the government is also following up, that we're now looking at those who are going to control this, in the tension between privacy and new methods, being able to do that work. When the Methodological Control Committee presented its report, the Progress Party was one of the few parties that said – in 2009 – that part of what is pointed out here, we should give the police the opportunity to do so. Then we stood quite alone. Today, a broad majority will gather on a number of these proposals. I understand that someone has needed some maturing time, but I think most of us who are working on this as a subject here in the house, and many others, realize that we have to enable the law to apply new methods. I believe that there are good and important boundaries in the proposition from the government and in the position of the committee. I am pleased with the very good cooperation with the government in this field. Of course, the progress party is behind this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e309	Let me first thank the case rapporteur and the Committee for Good Cooperation – because it has been a demanding matter. The issue we are dealing with today raises major questions of principle – about the relationship between the state and the citizen, about legal certainty, the rule of law, freedom of expression and privacy. Our primary task is to set the framework for a safe society, a society where children and young people can grow up without being afraid of being exposed to anything criminal. Unfortunately, we know that this is not the case today. But a lot goes well in our country. Crime has gone down, which is very good, but although there are fewer cases, the police have not gotten less to do — rather the opposite. Crime has become more complex, cross-border and, in particular, more serious. We therefore have a responsibility to assess and update the measures taken by the police, so that they have the opportunity to do the job we have put them to do. Hidden coercive agents involve interference with the privacy of individuals. Therefore, a requirement for the use of these instruments by the police requires thorough assessments, with more considerations to be weighed against each other. The changes we are adopting today are not a release of instruments for the police. It's very close to some mass surveillance or free from the police to monitor them. This is targeted interception and control in cases that deal with very serious crime, and it requires judicial control and also good control of its use in retrospect. These are short and well-needed changes to ensure police tools to combat serious crime. Abuse of children online is so cruel and grotesque that we have difficulty imagining that it is possible. According to Kripos, there has been a sharp increase in such cases lately. More and more children are subjected to blackmail and are manipulated to engage in online sexual activity, and because the police do not have the tools they need, the result is that offenders go free. It's unsustainable. I am therefore pleased that the changes we are adopting today will strengthen the police's important fight against criminals. But if we are to combat violence and abuse against children, it does not help to extend police powers – this must be combated in several areas. I am therefore very pleased that a unanimous decision was taken last year by the proposal of the Christian People's Party on a comprehensive escalation plan to combat violence in close relations, including in particular violence and abuse against children. This plan shall ensure health, justice and family measures. It is essential to combat this horrific crime. We as society must ensure that children and young people grow up in a safe environment, and then we must also do what we can to prevent, detect and combat child abuse. For the past few weeks, the newspaper has written many reports about the ‘shadow children’ — children who are under assault and forced labour — who live in slavery. Because slavery is not over, and it must be combated in several areas. Trafficking in human beings is very serious and serious crime and is difficult for the police to detect and investigate. I am therefore very pleased that today we are adopting the amendment of the law, which is a follow-up to an earlier representative proposal we had, to allow the use of communication control in human trafficking. This is an important step in the right direction, so that the risk of backers gets higher, more can be taken and more victims get their freedom. These are just a few examples of important issues for which today’s decision provides important guidance. It has also been claimed that we adopt rules that allow us to have a thought policy – that is wrong. Restrictions on the use of hidden coercive agents do not change, even if we are expanding by a new method, namely data reading. There must still be very strict conditions under which the police can make use of it and, moreover, there must be no change in the requirements for conviction. With this new method, we will help the police to access communications that they previously had access to, but are now encrypted. That's why it's good that the police now get some of the lead criminals have got. At the same time, we know that data reading will not lead to the police getting all the communication they want and that they are initially allowed to obtain. Therefore, this measure will not solve all problems – on the contrary, good old-fashioned police methods are still needed to combat crime. It is important that data reading is reserved for the most serious crime. Where we are going to set the threshold for data reading is a difficult balance between privacy considerations and society's need to combat criminal acts. It is therefore difficult to find the actual point of intersection of the method. But the Justice Committee makes important adjustments on the basis of what the government proposed. We're raising the threshold when data reading can be used. This means that when the legislative changes we are adopting today come into force, data reading cannot be used to detect simple drug abuse, simply drug healing and negligent drug healing. We believe that this is an important clarification, which we are pleased that the Committee has agreed on. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the use of communication control should be closely followed. Therefore, we are pleased that the evaluation of the EOS Committee shows that this is working and that it enhances the use of hidden coercive substances. In the future, we will have to assess the strengthening of the EOS Committee's budget to ensure the optimum functioning of the work. It is also important that the annual reports of the EOS Committee and the Communications Control Committee show that communication control is not abused by the police or the PST — nor is urgency misused. It is important that this work continues, so that we know that the law is being followed, and that the tools are being used as intended. Therefore, it is also important that the capacity of the Communications Control Committee be strengthened so that the sample can handle its function in the future. The contribution to the sample is proposed by the government to be almost tenfold, from 0.7 million. NOK 6 million. kr. Of course, we support that. In our view, when there is such a change and an increase in budgets, it is not appropriate to evaluate the Communications Control Committee now, as the Workers' Party and the Centre propose. Therefore, we would rather promote a proposal for evaluation of the sample three to five years after the entry into force of the legislative changes related to this proposition. Then it will be much more appropriate to do just that. The debate on this legislative proposal has also raised doubts as to whether an extension of access to sound and video recordings has been proposed. Everyone agrees that there should not be such an extension, but the definition of camera surveillance in the new Section 202 a fifth paragraph may appear somewhat ambiguous as it appears to include both sound and image material. Therefore, there will also be an overall committee in favour of the removal of «sound» from the definition of camera monitoring in the fifth paragraph of Section 202a. That's good. Specific proposals have also been made covering the software to be used for data reading. I believe this is an important issue. That is why I am pleased that this should be regulated by regulation. This regulatory work must address the issue of ownership, ensure that – at least as far as possible – Norwegian ownership of the software, that there are supervisory procedures for the security of the software, that data transmissions related to monitoring are kept as far as possible within Norwegian jurisdiction, and that procedures for uninstalling applications that are no longer in use are developed. All of this is important to avoid abuse. Legal certainty for individuals must be ensured. It's absolutely crucial in a state of law. But as the police lawyers pointed out during the hearing in the Justice Committee, there is no legal certainty that the police have no means to combat crime. The individual victim must also be guaranteed the right to privacy and privacy. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that there are important changes we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e345	The centre party has a vision of an open and secure society based on trust between people and where privacy plays an important role. This is why the centre party was strongly opposed to the Data Storage Directive. Nevertheless, it is clear that the Storting must facilitate both an open society and a secure society. We must try to make reasonable comparisons between the concerns about privacy and the legal and practical possibilities that the police have for preventing serious crime and investigating criminal acts. Monitoring and control must be based on an ethical and principle approach, and we must ensure that the methods available to the police are at least in response to the citizens. The centre party believes that there must be clear limits on how far public authorities and others can go in the direction of transparency or control of their individual actions. Therefore, the centre party cannot accept the bill from the government in the community for which the majority of people today are going to go in. If we had received multiple numbers for the submissions we have with the Workers' Party about, in addition to what we ourselves are concerned about maintaining judicial control of postal seizures, we could have supported the rest of the bill, but that package of multiple votes today, in our opinion, is going far too far at the cost of privacy. There is no doubt that the government has been able to make difficult decisions when trying to balance the aforementioned concerns. We are today facing problems that did not exist a few years back. Technology evolves, encryption is increasingly used, and as a result, the police do not have the same ability as before to access certain types of information. At the same time, the police have a responsibility to protect us, and the citizens expect the police to contribute to our safest society. If many feel unsafe, it can lead to more crime. Therefore, we still need to consider how to adapt police methods to today's society and the modern means of communication used. We need to equip the police and the PST in such a way that they can do their job without having to pay too much in terms of privacy restrictions, freedom of expression and privacy. As I said, the government has faced a difficult balance. I still believe that the government has gone too far in its efforts to give the police and the PST these tools. I would also like to stress that there is a complex bill that comes from the government, both technical and legal. This is such an important proposal that the Storting should have had longer time to deal with the matter. I would point out that the Council of State itself was not quite sure whether television surveillance should be extended to sound, as explicitly stated in the proposal. At first he meant that this was already the current right and not any extension, then he thought that such an extension was never the intention. I am pleased that it has now been prepared that camera monitoring will only apply to images, not to sound. I also record that the Justice Committee's members from the government party and the Christian People's Party on page 20 in the setting mean that after the proposal it will be possible to break into private housing to install data-reading equipment. They seem to think the opposite is true on pages 17-18 when they discuss the relationship with the Constitution. In the plural commentary that the government party and the Christian People's Party are behind on pages 17-18, it says: «In any case, the Basic Law § 102 precludes the use of such coercive agents only in the case of space listening and screening with deferred notification in private housing. As far as data reading is concerned, this will not have any problematic aspects of the Basic Law's provisions on house inquisition, as it is not a question of making physical invasions of private homes to install data reading equipment.» But the committee's comment on page 20, which includes the same parties, says: ‘The Committee notes that the Ministry also proposes that police officers be allowed to make physical intrusions in order to locate and remove equipment necessary for the execution of the data readout.’;» This applies, as I said, to a complicated bill, and I have understood it on the Minister of Justice as if he thought that the government party and the Christian People's Party were behind this, not in conflict with each other. § 17 d second paragraph last sentence clearly uses the phrase ‘by reading data to break into someone’s private home’. Why use this algorithm if you want to claim that this is not a private home break-in? Then one just makes it harder for itself. The entire Committee points out that the proposal suggests that the police should be able to physically break in order to place and remove equipment in connection with data reading. I ask the Minister of Justice to clarify this issue during the debate. Initially, we in the Center Party were willing to expand the possibilities that the police have for making society safer, but an important commitment for us was that important care should be taken. This applies, inter alia, to: the importance of privacy and, at the same time, of the source protection, which the pressure is busy with. The vast majority of these proposals seem to be falling, unfortunately. Although the government's proposal has now been moderated after the Committee's consideration, the proposal as it stands could lead to a disproportionate negative impact on privacy and legal certainty. As a result, I cannot vote in favour of the wholeness of the government proposal as a result of this. First of all, the centre party rejects the four claims for judicial review. It is for the courts to decide whether the conditions for police surveillance are in place. Here, we can't choose solutions that are easy to solve, or we can't blindly believe that there can't be any abuse. The center part is busy that we're going to have a free press, and also pay great attention to the importance of the source protection. I would like this to be dealt with more thoroughly and in-depthly in the bill of the government. We need to know how the proposal will have implications for source protection, and we need to have measures put in place to address potential disadvantages. The method control selection did not want data reading to be an independent method, but this would be an important tool to enable communication interception. In the government's proposal, they introduce data reading as a new, self-contained, hidden coercive agent. Data scanning is a very interventional method. This includes: high risk of collecting information about innocent third parties. The center party is not opposed to the method, but is very concerned about regulating the method correctly. A threshold was suggested too low to use this method. We can't agree to that in the Center Party, and I'm glad that the government party and the Christian People's Party seem to mean the same thing to some extent. I believe that there must be the necessary supervision of the use of police methods, and statistics on their use must be available to the public. Only in this way can we follow developments and learn how effective these tools are, so that we can make the necessary adjustments in the next round. In order for society to have a high level of confidence in the police in the future, it is important that this methodology be transparent. The government's bill will mean that much more information will be collected than is being done today. This was not the height of the bill. Luckily, this was what all the members of the Committee thought was important, and the Committee's position on the Storting includes a review of the rules for the use, storage and deletion of surplus information by the government. Summert up: the Central Party has clearly shown that we see privacy and source protection high, while at the same time we have been constructive in providing the police with important tools in the fight against crime and terrorism. Some important changes have been made to the Justice Committee, but there are too few that the Centre Party can stand behind the bill we are discussing now. The proposals of the Labour Party and the Center Party are united, the Labour Party has already developed. What I would like to mention in addition is that the Central Party will vote against the lifting of the special features of postal seizures that relate to the criminal law of § 211 and § 212.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e405	This case is about giving the police extended access to use hidden coercive measures for investigation, deterrence and prevention. The position in this case states that people are initially free individuals with fundamental rights such as the right to privacy and legal certainty. I fully agree with that. Then it is that a society must have the opportunity to intervene in these freedoms in the event of serious crimes. But it's always important to remember the starting point, so that as politicians we don't violate these rights more than what is absolutely necessary. What's completely new this time, and that's been most discussed, is data reading. A majority of the Stortinget now opens up so that the police can break in and install software on the computer, so that everything that happens on the computer can be read by the police. This is a serious interference in personal freedom and privacy, firstly because the police get access to everything that happens on the computer, not only the information that they are looking for, and not only when the person in the police searchlight uses the computer, but also when, for example, they do. other family members use the same computer. Secondly, the police are given access to what was only scrapped down, but that was never sent. What was only thought, but never done. There's a difference between the e-mails you send from you and the e-mails you delete. Now the police get access to everything. This is to move the limit closer to the soul. This is a big step towards turning our police into a thought police force. So I've heard more from the government parties say that there is no difference between what a writer in an unsent e-mail and that one, for example. writes in a journal. Yeah, that's actually it. Now I doubt that these heavy criminals like this are basically talking about, keep a diary, but you never know. And if they now keep a journal and write something down in the diary that they regret, they can tear apart those sides, or they can choose to burn those sides. On a computer corresponds to the Delete button and they can press the Delete button, but it will already be too late, as the police will have already got what they wrote on that computer. So there's actually a difference between a journal and a computer. Several times I've heard that there are legitimate rooms that make this necessary. The police must have the means to keep them in touch with the criminals. I would strongly warn against giving the impression that everything that is needed to prevent, avert and investigate criminals is to allow the police and the PST to use data reading. It is right that criminals can simply avoid such things. telephone listening and other means, they can talk in ways other than, for example: via telephone, but they can actually also avoid data reading. Now I myself believe that I have one of the least criminal brains in Norway, but it took me about. five minutes to discover that one can use a computer in the library to write the drafts of the e-mail that you want to get, without being able to get caught by the police. Everyone I've talked to so far agrees that it won't be proportionate to read all the library machines to get hold of potential criminals – and it is. So it's this thing with the boundaries. When the Council of State put forward the proposal, I had the impression that he thought this was happening in a way that made it just the most serious cases that were hit. It was therefore not a large-scale monitoring for which it was opened through that proposal. Later we have seen that the government parties and the Christian People's Party did not fully agree with the Council of State in this. Even these parties believe that the Council of State went too far, and they write in the setting: ‘However, following an overall assessment, the majority consider that the threshold for applying data reading should be raised in relation to the proposal of the proposal, so that the methodology cannot be used to detect simple drug abuse. [[...]] And it was just supposed to be missing. As we see it, there is absolutely no proportionality in the fact that the police should be able to read data from any citizen in this country who may have kept a user's pot for private use. We may or may not like that, but there are quite a number of high-tech, up-to-date and otherwise law-abiding citizens in this country who have at some point been in possession of a user dose of cannabis. This also illustrates the dilemma of opening up new coercive measures. This with borders is not easy, and it is probably only a matter of time before the border goes back to where the Council of State wanted it to go — some police signals that there are difficult borderlines between simple drug abuses and serious drug crimes, and then spook! The left has recently submitted a Document 8 proposal, which calls for the creation of a new data protection commission in the field of justice. I hope we agree to that, because there is a need to put a foot in the ground at regular intervals to see how the privacy of this field is. We should do that before we introduced new coercive measures and gave the police even more coercive measures that violate individual privacy. We are therefore going to vote today against introducing data reading as a method. We record that the Workers' Party and the Center's party in principle believe that it is right to open up for data reading, but that they are not entirely comfortable with where the majority have added the list. It is good that there is a clear opposition that wants to tighten up further, and we will therefore vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals No. 8 to 11, from the minority. Since there is a majority in favour of data reading, we, together with the SV, have made proposals to review and evaluate the use of data reading before five years have elapsed. The Methodological Monitoring Committee proposed to remove in due time preparations for terrorism as a basis for the implementation of coercive measures. The Committee refers to this, but does not go further into that debate. On the contrary, they agree with the Ministry's proposal to include public encouragement, recruitment or training for terrorism as a basis for the use of reticent coercive measures. The reason why the Methodological Control Committee proposed this was because it was too far-reaching and because it could be challenging with regard to Article 8 of the ECHR and Section 102 of the Constitution. We believe that there is reason to follow the Methodological Control Committee and to tighten it up, and that is why we have also put forward proposals to that effect. Another proposal that also illustrates this with the demarcations is the proposal to abolish the requirement that there should be organised crime in order to be able to use space listening. The majority today decided to lower the space listening threshold. We're saying that these intrusive methods should only be used in the most serious cases. I totally agree that killing is serious, but there are also other crimes that are serious, and what's the next on the list where we're going to allow space listening? The Methodological Control Committee also went against this, for example. because there is a lack of evaluation basis. Rome snooping is an interventional police method, and the Committee itself writes that ‘space listening represents one of the most interventional instruments available to the Norwegian police, and constitutes a significant interference in privacy, as well as often affecting innocent third parties.’ We agree on this, but we do not agree with the conclusion to extend the use. The left will therefore vote against that proposal. I have to admit that it is a bit strange to read the position of the Committee and at the same time no recognition of several of the proposals of the Workers' Party. We are not used to nodding recognition to the Workers' Party when it comes to privacy issues. Although we are fundamentally disagreeable in substance, I have to add that there are some good suggestions here as well. I hope this is one side of the Workers' Party we're going to see more in the future. One of the proposals I would like to make to the Labour Party and to the Central Party is proposal No. 7 that there shall be a requirement to be heard by the court when the police are required to obtain traffic data from telecommunications companies. This is an important and good follow-up to what appears to be a problem today, and as the Methodological Monitoring Committee has already pointed out. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that have been made on behalf of the Left and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e451	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e454	In the debate on anti-crime drugs versus privacy, it is often said that there is a balance between security and freedom. To some extent it might be right, but I want to say that there is also a balance between security and security. On the one hand, it is very important for society that the police have access to good methods to fight crime, both crime that uses the Internet as an instrument and crime that is actually committed there. There we have to assume that it will be a rapid development that will challenge us and make it necessary to take new debates on the mechanism. On the other hand, exactly the same technological developments shift people's daily activities and activities and privacy online. Exactly the same developments that justify these proposals increase the need for security around our daily activities, which now exist just as they exist in physical places. Hence, they have a balance. In the debates on crime prevention and privacy, it is sometimes said that if you have nothing to hide, there is nothing to fear either. But we all have something to hide. It's actually good to have something to hide. It's a sign that one has a life and beyond social intelligence enough to understand that one has something to hide. Let me spend some time on it. Part of the things that we have to hide, it's not necessarily so morally high or important to society that we hide. It can only be that we want to hide it for private reasons. That's important enough, I'll say, for our integrity. But other things of what we're hiding are things that it's pretty important to society that we can do hidden. Some, e.g. has a disease that anyone doesn't want the public to know about, but it's very important that you can communicate well with the corpses – that one or two electors can communicate about him – so it's important for society that one can keep it relatively private. Or if someone is in a situation in life where they have to contact a crisis center, it's important that they can do it without it becoming known, because it's more likely that they do it then than if they fear it might be known publicly. Or if you have an unwanted pregnancy that is very young, or have contact with a psychologist or in other ways, doing things where you have a desire for privacy around it and don't want it to get confused, it's very important for society that the most possible benefit from that possibility. We then talk not only about privacy, but also about different forms of monitoring and recording and using methods of freedom, but also against the digital security of the individual. The need for digital security is going to increase massively, and he is similar to the security we are concerned with experiencing in our physical daily life. Fortunately, in recent years one has been much more aware of the dilemmas and deviations that follow, and one has gained a much greater insight into the fact that there are, in fact, biases and problematic aspects of it. Parts of the committee settings show it. The work that has been done here, and the public debate shows it. I noticed that, on the other hand, the representative Leirstein said he had never been contacted by anyone who had concerns about such methodology. So maybe I can add that I suspect that the representative Leirstein is not the first one to ring if you have concerns about privacy. If that's how he meets difficult, fundamental considerations, I think he can go through life happily without knowing that they once exist. I myself experience being contacted by people with a completely different attitude and a very strong commitment. There are really problematic evaluations we're talking about. This is due to the fact that SV will support a good part of the proposals put forward by the government on cautious extensions of the way the police can use methods to fight crime. But it's also backed up because today we're going to vote against giving access to a whole new method, that's data reading for use. Let me briefly explain it to the back carpet more precisely. First of all, there is a method that the representative Nybø described in a very precise way, which is very interventional for the individual – more than what we are watered into the physical world, I would say. We've led ourselves to things that haven't even come all the way to the thought stage. It will detect, and one will not be able to remove it after it has a doctor there undetermined. Secondly, it provides a lot of additional information. Digital communication always involves different people. If one comes to him, he will give a lot of information about individuals who may not prove guilty or suspect at all in crime, and about others who communicate with them. The additional information is problematic. Thirdly, I think we have to bear in mind that there will be a strong desire to develop and extend access to use this tool once it is in use. It shows experiences from similar debates. I appreciate that the Committee has raised the threshold for the type of crime to be used, but I did not think that the level of concern expressed by the Labour Party and the Centre is entirely consistent with how they finally come to the conclusion. I don't think the road is that long until we're about where the government has proposed – perhaps beyond that – in a few years. Fourthly, the biggest data protection challenge is not really the individual decisions here. I mean, data reading in isolation is not in the vicinity of taking us from a safe, good society to a monitoring society. The biggest challenge is the sum of a number of single proposals across a wide range of different fields in society. There's as much cause for concern when you look at health, on transportation and on education, as when you look at the field of justice. In sum, it shifts limits and significantly reduces the digital security of individuals. For this reason, SV has previously proposed that a monitoring commission be set up, which can see the sectors in the context, go far beyond what the image is like when it comes to the sum of registration and monitoring, and propose new measures and perhaps, in principle, go through some limits we should set. That is also why we propose together with the Left that we make a thorough evaluation and review of the use of data reading within five years. None of our parties are in the committee, but I'm of the opinion that this should be a proposal that could get broad support here in the hall, regardless of how you view it. There is a new method which will be opened to activate. It would be wise for anything now to state that we should have a thorough review then, and he will come to the Stortinget. Five years is such a long time that it's possible to gain some experience without anything going on so much that you can't discuss it again. As I said, we'll also vote for some of the methods that it's being opened to apply. In addition, we will vote in favour of the proposals put forward by the Labour Party and the Central Party – the same as the representative of Nybø. We will go against some other proposals. First of all, I would like to mention the Methodological Control Selection that warns against, simply to use preventive monitoring when it comes to terrorist planning. It also seems like we're going over a threshold we don't want to open to go over now. We are also critical of the lowering of the threshold for space listening contained in the proposal here. Let me conclude by saying that, after all, it is gratifying that the proposals have led to a relatively large amount of public debate with many good articles and phrases that trouble the cause. I also think that there have been some good comments in this debate. Where we're not yet, more parties are willing to take the consequences of their concerns and take them a step further – from concern to actually going deep into how this moves the limits not only for freedom, but for the digital security we can experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e491	Let me first be allowed to thank, in particular, the rapporteur and the committee chairman for an exceptionally good work on this matter and for a good cooperation, as well as the committee for working as well on a matter as important as this. I also think there is reason to stress and thank you for the good cooperation that has been between the government fraction and the Christian People's Party, and I think the debate we have had so far is also a very good debate that shows the different reasons one should take when discussing hidden methods. This is not right and wrong, it is not black or white – there are different priorities and balances, which are demanding. There are two important axes one has to have an open relationship to. One, which has been discussed quite thoroughly both in the proposition and in part in the setting, is the relationship with the use of hidden methods against the Constitution. I think it is quite clear that the proposition clearly shows that the proposals that the government is promoting, to which the Committee is essentially committed, are clear within the framework of the Constitution. The second is the discussion of a more political nature, namely the protection of privacy on the one hand and the security of society on the other – or, as the previous speaker pointed out, security and security, the assessment of how it should be weighted and weighed. There it is perfectly legitimate to have different assessments when discussing the hidden methods of the police. I still think it's necessary to remember a couple of important things, which I think are drowning a little in this discussion from time to time. There is the difference between what are hidden police methods, which are an acute form of surveillance under very strong and strict conditions, on the one hand, and what is produced as mass surveillance, on the other. There are two fundamentally completely different things, and I believe that, especially in parts of the public debate, something strange is being presented. We have e.g. consider claims that everyone can be affected by this, on the grounds that the PST has very little access to preventative investigations. That access is therefore extended to the use of weapons of mass destruction – not terror, it is already fanciful today – which is a small extension, but in an area that has an extreme adverse effect, and the PST will never be measured by how they are able to investigate an action after the terrorist has been committed, they will be measured by how they have prevented terrorism from being carried out. I think it's also important to bring yourself into perspective when you're talking about what are the most important instruments we have in the fight against terrorism. I am very pleased that the committee has been very clear on the distinction between it one can consider as mass surveillance or storage of massive amounts of data, on the one hand, and what are pointed police methods, on the other. I am very concerned about privacy. I have kept posts from this pulpit as a staging representative several times and flamedly defended privacy. I am also a flaming fan of securing citizens against serious crime. That's why I also have a listening ear when I see how the police and the police security service today assess their situation related to methods. I want to spend a little bit of time on what's the new method, data reading. It is assessed differently, a little depending on the kind of political stance you have, but some people present data reading as a new method, which will give us a whole new access to people’s thoughts – I think the representative Nybø used the term ‘thinking police’. I fundamentally and fundamentally disagree with that assessment. In fact, one in some ways shifts the monitoring a little bit closer to the mind by giving a person access to things that have not been sent or stored. However, if one compares with the method it mainly replaces, namely communication interception, the reason why data reading is so important that people who commit terror or serious crime no longer communicate on listening mobile phones. It's not that unnatural, because on the same mobile phone, a printing can be done on a Skype icon and a call as if it were a cell phone call, but then we're deprived of the opportunity to find out what's going on in that conversation. That is why it is important to stress that data reading in this area is really a pure consequence of technological development. In the past, a large part of this information could be accessed based on the use of communication interception. That possibility is gone. We need to make sure that we don't get so much intelligence that we're not able to avert terror, and that we're not able to deal with serious organized crime. PST has for quite a long time been very clear about the importance of getting data reading in place as a method. In their threat assessment, they have also told us about the intelligence holes we operate with. We also have to take that side of this question seriously. I would like to stress that when we talk about hidden police methods, this is not the case, as someone gives the impression – not from this pulpit – that the police should be given the power to do what they want. It's clear frames and barriers. All current frames and barriers will be maintained. This includes, inter alia: full judicial review, which implies notification obligations, and it involves subsequent verification, both through the EOS Committee on the issues addressed by PST, and through the Monitoring Committee on Communication Control on the issues dealt with by the police — a sample that the government proposes to multiply the resources just in order to improve the control not only of data reading but also of methodological use in general. So I'm a little concerned that someone is presenting it as if somehow it's going to be free for the police to do whatever they want. It does not do so, either with regard to the enhanced competence of the PST in preventive or deterrent methods or to the use of the same instruments by the police. In addition to the subsequent verification, it is also such that the person being monitored is protected by a lawyer of his own. It is an important legal certainty guarantee, which is being continued. So I'm interested in finding out that it's actually the way that the focus on privacy, the focus on constraints, the focus on not being able to abuse it, is very, very strong. The same applies to the relationship with the obligation to notify. If the police or the PST get hurt in order to monitor without initially having any specific reasons for it, in addition to the fact that it was of course legally approved, but that it has not been revealed that crime has been committed, the person exposed to this surveillance should be informed of it. I think it's also an important measure, first of all, to ensure that the police and the PST are very conscious of the methodology, but it's also kind of a recovery process, to call it that. It is also necessary to say a few words about how the police will use these methods in the future, I think. It creates the impression that implementing hidden methods will lead to very many being exposed to it. I don't think that's the case. These are resource-intensive methods. It takes a lot of power from the police to use these methods, and that also means that the police use them in the contexts and situations where it is strictly necessary. I also want to say that there are many good reflections in the setting, which show many of the dilemmas we face. With regard to the issue of raising the threshold for the use of data reading, I just want to say that I am pleased that the Committee has had a thorough assessment of this. There has been an important discussion, and there is no doubt that this type of discussion has also preceded the presentation of the proposition. One of the reasons why the threshold was set at that level is, above all, what I said before, that the main method that data reading replaces, that is, communication interception, is laid at the same level, and that was why a data reading was also placed at the same level. However, it is an important assessment whether one believes that data reading should follow the threshold level for communication interception or higher, and I am pleased that the Committee has had a thorough and good assessment of it, and has ended up raising that threshold somewhat. I think that makes sense, and I'm behind it. I look forward to the police and the PST having access to methods that they have requested for a long time, but I would also like to stress that I am pleased that the privacy focus both in the government and in this room is as strong as it is. That means that the government has found a pretty good balance when we see the massive support we get in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e522	Like others in the Chamber, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation, including with the members of the Committee and not least the majority of the Committee. I am recording that the Council of State has been very concerned with this, that there is a point of surveillance here, and not a mass surveillance. That's why I'm a little excited about what was the reason, what the Council of State was thinking when he decided to add the original proposal for data reading as low as for simple drug crimes, if the reason is that this should be a tedious surveillance. I'm also glad that the majority has changed that particular point. But it would be good to hear what reason, what thoughts, the council had in advance of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e529	That question I actually answered at the end of my post, where I said that the assessment was that one could put it at the same level as the main method of data reading is intended to replace, namely communication interception, and communication interception is at that level. The background for this is simply, as I also said in my post, that when someone can now communicate encrypted, easily and accessible to us all through, for example. Skype, we thought it was most relevant. But then there are other assessments that can also be weighted, because data reading is also different and gives access to something more than what you get through communication interception. So I think it's been a balance that the committee has made in a good way. But it's possible to argue from both sides. In addition, the practical assessment is linked to the distinction between serious and simple drug offences, which are mainly related to the amount of drugs, which makes this also somewhat more complicated. But, as I said, I support the conclusion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e538	I thank you for your answer. We record that the State Council has chosen not to follow up the Norwegian changes under the Data Storage Directive, after there was doubt as to whether parts of it were within human rights. At the same time, parts of this original proposal are undisputed, as a claim for recognition of the right to provide traffic data. Does the State Council support the requirement for recognition of traffic data?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e545	That's a question we're not following up on in the proposition, and that means we're dealing with the situation as it is, and with the current right in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e550	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for a good cooperation and not least for a good contribution. In the setting, we affect the security of the technology and software to be used for data reading. I was a little into it in my post as well. But today in today's business, the Technology Council has an interesting chronicle, which they have called the State as a hacker. They refer to Germany, which in 2011 had a case in which one managed to exploit the Trojans that the police had inserted into a computer, and that hackers could then use it as a tool to get an overview of other machines. It was quite nice hackers, so they didn't abuse it, but it shows some of the challenges with the software itself and the security. At least it is extremely important that one does not create a tool that can be abused by other criminals for example. planting evidence or listening to other criminals. I would like to challenge the Council of State a little bit on the comments we have written about the need for regulations to regulate security, and the issue of software. What does he think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e559	There are clearly relevant concerns. It is essential that both the use of the software and the way in which it is installed and extracted in retrospect, and insofar as the information sent by the software to the police or to the PST, cannot be misused in any way. We work, as the representative is inside, with the regulation of what kind of security is going to be around it, but it will always be demanding with technological development, for what may appear to be safe and secure one moment may be at the other moment at risk. However, it is crucial for the methodology and trust in the services that one also has the necessary security and security around the software used when extracting data. I'm of the opinion that they have a very conscious relationship with this. We have very prominent and good environments in this area, and it is important that we also follow it up politically, with the necessary framework for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e564	In this case, the Central Party has been particularly concerned with the subject of ‘judicial control’, that it is the courts that are to decide when the police are to use hidden coercive measures. It's a shame that the government party has not been as busy of this as we are, for example. in the case of suspension of notification by seizure and extradition orders, such as the collection of traffic data from telecommunications companies. What we're all about in the committee is keeping the court review at the post office. One thing is that one cancels the paragraph that the courts are going to look through the post, which may be justified in resource use. The most problematic thing is in our view that everything is happening at the same time. In the same way as a deterrent to judicial control, a threshold for using postal seizures is lowered from the point of view of suspected offences with a six-month penalty framework to be applied to matters that can be presumed to be of importance as evidence. How can the Council of State defend the disappearance of the threshold while ensuring the disappearance of judicial control of postal seizures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e573	The judicial review is maintained for all methods of use. The possibility for the prosecution to delay notification for eight weeks is not such as to alter the judicial review of the use of the methods to be used. The only thing that postpones the judicial review of methods is urgency. The urgency — if in use — must also be reviewed by the Court on the first possible occasion. So all the methodology is court-controlled. The only thing that has changed in that area is that the prosecution authority may delay notification for eight weeks. With regard to the rule of postal seizures, it is a rather old-fashioned provision for primary mail. Today the correspondence is over in a few seconds. So the shipment came out in a way. If one were to have a law requiring the court to review all the e-mail accounts of a person under investigation before the police could access this material, it would create enormous challenges, and it would have very little practical significance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e580	One of the reasons that has been used to argue for data reading is that the police no longer have access to the same information because of encryption. It is underlined again and again that encryption makes things difficult for the police. But then I'm going to challenge the Council of State on this: isn't it that the police through data reading get access to more information than they would have had the information not been encrypted and they had used the other means of communication interception? And in that case, why hasn't the Council of State limited data reading to just the information the police had received if it hadn't been for the encryption? Why hasn't the Council of State restricted it so that we don't expand police access to information, and that we actually stick to the same level that is used as justification... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e586	I think that would simply not be practicable, because one with this method will have access to what is done and written on the computer. However, I would like to stress that even if a data-reader has access to more than what was previously communicated between two parties – or more, for that matter – one will still not have much greater overall access, because much of what is available to one will then be able to access through, for example, data-reading. secret search. This would allow one to have access to – as the representative Nybø had to say – e.g.: The journal notes of people who have written a diary, although I agree that there are probably not so many of them who do. But one will have access to a lot of the same information. The difference is that one will have access to the information on a continuous basis, to a greater extent than one would have by carrying out secret seizures. In addition, one will be in the situation that one will be able to access something that is only written, but that is neither sent nor stored. It's kind of the extension. So collectively, if you look at today's methods against data reading, the difference is less than you can get the idea of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e593	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e598	Let it be said that today the police also have access to hidden coercive measures, for example. telephone interception and camera surveillance. The assumption is, of course, the approval of the Court of Justice, and so it should continue. It is the court that decides on the fight against crime and balances it against other overriding societal considerations, in particular privacy, and lays down conditions for its implementation. Most of the coercive measures currently used by PST were adopted by the Stortinget in 2005. Since then, both the threat and the technology have changed considerably. The use of hidden methods by PST is currently giving us less access to information than was foreseen by the Stortinget in 2005. The proposal currently under consideration by the Stortinget expresses the need for a comprehensive update of which coercive measures the PST should have access to in order to combat terrorism and serious crime. In recent years, the PST has described a serious threat picture, with increased terrorist risk and increased serious crime across borders. Unfortunately, we have seen a blessing. Several of our allies are haunted by gross, cruel terror, where human dignity has been brutally meddled down. The increased use of encryption creates challenges for police and intelligence, is evident in the Swedish Commission’s investigation, Digital Vulnerability — Secure Society. It does not help to intercept between a and b when the communication is between a and a. Or in another way: today you can access the computer of others and retrieve information without communicating with each other. There is no doubt that encryption has brought the police on the defensive in the fight against serious crime. Data reading will enable the police to access information in a computer system at such an early stage that encryption cannot make information available. Data reading as a method will fill the intelligence gap created today by encryption. Data reading will be a targeted attack on the serious crime taking place in the digital space and weakening social security. There is a need for the safety of the population to weigh more heavily. Hidden use of methods is invasive and must be used with caution. Therefore, data reading will only be opened in exceptional cases. The assumption is that there are grounds for suspecting serious crime which could lead to a prison sentence of up to 10 years or more, for example: Terrorism, trafficking in human beings, kidnapping and intelligence against state secrets, i.e. the type of crime that can hit the individual and the state hardest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e613	I had more than ten years ago the pleasure of participating in a similar debate in this room. In 2004–2005, following the attacks in the United States in September 2001, then Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum promoted a case on how to combat serious crime against individuals and against society as such. Also then was the dilemma, the discussion, between two aspects: the need to protect the individual while not sacrificing privacy on the altar of the other. So are we going to do the same thing today. I remember there was a big discussion at the time concerning communication control and secret search. How can it be done in a sound, good way that guarantees society, without anyone taking away the suspect's rights? What you did was you found a system in which you named a third-party lawyer who held the rights of the suspect. That's what you have to do, because society will be challenged all the time. I do not think, as some have said from this pulpit today, that you can manage to have a law that meets all the challenges at all times. That's not how democracy works. Democracy sometimes has to experience things — sometimes in a harsh and brutal way — before taking into account the need for change. Now you do that. Although the objective is to have an optimal society with peace and tolerance, security and good jobs, we sometimes encounter other conditions. Also then you have to have a law that is good and working. That's why I think, when you look at the setting today, maybe especially at I, II and III, that these are important aspects, it's important that you have a review of the methods used, and look at functionality, and not least that one then, through it, can discover that there is actually a need for it. The worst thing we do is give methods to those who are going to take care of us and secure us, and then they are not used! Then we lose credibility. Another thing is that you have the necessary resources for those who want to make sure that those who have been given the powers do so within their actual mandate. So there's a good dynamic between what we're doing, and what those people are set to take care of us out there are going to have. I think the debate has been good, I think many elements have been affected, and it again shows the interest and importance of this. But the most important thing is, with this legislation adopted today, will we protect society? The big discussion after what happened in the United States was whether the law can prevent it. I'm sure you can't. But if we can reduce one attack, the system has worked. And I have come to realize that those who take care of us in this hidden way in Norway are clear that yes, the methods they've been given have worked, and what we're doing today is going to make us even stronger in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e629	Then we're ready to make new decisions, take a couple of new steps, a couple of new tricks towards a society where the state is getting more and more opportunities to see and record what we're all doing. What should a person really do in the face of threats such as terrorism, nuclear weapons, and not least drugs? The logic that all defenders of the proposals have used is just the one: The world is a dangerous place. The police and authorities believe that these tools will be useful to make us safe, so they should get them. But then I'm going to say that when case-speaker Werp says that there is a good balance between privacy and security here, so it's the same warp from the same party that said that one had found at least an equal balance between these aspects when a adopted data storage directive in this room, which proved to be contrary to human rights. The same representative stood on the pulpit last week and called for the random search of Norwegian citizens without suspicion. I see that the committee boasts that here has a raised threshold, one has raised the bounds, it's going to be hard to use. If you see the penal code, the criminal law and the police law in context, I have very much doubts about it. To take an example, you can use data scanning if there is a reason to investigate whether someone is preterm, threatening, and involved in hiding a person who is involved in terrorist financing. How should a court be able to exercise real control, set real limits, when a permit has been made to go so far before anything criminal has happened at all? Then you say that one raises the threshold for the type of fracture. This will no longer apply to simple drug law offences, but to serious drug law offences. But then type one at the same time in the setting that one is ready to lower the thresholds continuously – that's what the multiples write. And there's a safe way to do it, because you're doing this with another tool, that's space listening, and you're removing the requirement to associate with organized crime by investigating killings. One could say a lot about how dubious the basic interpretation of the majority is. I think there's a real danger that it will be shut down by the Supreme Court at some point in time. But I really think I'm going to use the last 15 seconds to say that I think it's a pity that not even more representatives are drawing on such an important debate, because here we know that there's real disunity in many parties. I agree that there may be difficult evaluations, but then they should have been expressed much more in the vote and in the debate, where we are going a few more steps in the wrong direction today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e646	Police in Norway have always had access to hidden coercive measures to investigate, prevent and avert serious crime. The government is now choosing to introduce a new coercive tool, called data readout. This means that the police can read information that is available on a PC or a mobile phone by breaking into it. It's almost like researching a room or a dwelling, just that the search is digital. The police have long asked for this method, since criminals communicate through digital and encrypted services that police do not have access to. The WhatsApp app is an example of an encrypted service that the police are unable to access today, although there is reason to suspect terrorist planning or a major drug introduction. In other words, police coercive measures must follow technological developments and be in line with the method employed by criminals. Today's threat level, seen in the light of events in particular: Paris and Brussels, unfortunately, are also one of the reasons why the police must be as well equipped as possible to carry out their social mission. I record that some representatives have repeatedly made a point that the police are now monitoring your mobile phone or your computer. No, any coercion in the Criminal Procedures Act is targeted at individuals suspected of having committed a serious criminal offence, such as killing, possession of images and terrorist planning. It is therefore not your mobile phone that is of interest to the police. The same thing will also apply to data reading. Telling the police to monitor your computer will therefore not be correct. It's not some kind of mass surveillance. With the approval of the court, the police shall only be able to monitor the computer of a potential offender, terrorist or drug baron. For communication control, this concerns about 100 cases per year, and not 5 million, which correspond to the population of Norway. I do not understand that it is presented as a threat to privacy that the Norwegian police, under strict legal control, are given access to information on persons who are suspected of a criminal offence for dubious reasons. Police today are often on the sidelines, given an out-of-date piece of legislation, and the criminals go on with their actions. We see that the amount of surplus information will increase in the introduction of new coercive measures. Therefore, the Stortinget has also asked the government to review today’s legislation on the use and processing of surplus information in order to strengthen privacy. The alternative to the government's proposal is not to do anything. At least I'm not sure if I'm comfortable with it in the light of today's threat level.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e677	I'm not going to repeat what I said in my main post, but I think it's very important, at least for the Workers' Party, that this with hidden methods and coercive agents can be used by the police in order to avert and not least detect and prevent criminal acts. The extent of the use of these coercive measures and the level at which they are to be introduced are subject to disagreement. It is not least whether or not this monitoring has been spiked or whether there is a massive monitoring of people in Norway that could possibly be potential offenders. Everyone is aware that the crime scene is changing and that the crime being committed today is of a more serious nature. That's why it's more important than ever to focus on that particular area. These methods require good balances for legal certainty and for privacy, not least in a democracy – a democracy where we can move freely, and where we release the threat of being monitored or not in public space, or in the private sphere. These are important principles for our democracy and for our privacy. That's why I'm very pleased – as I said in my main post – that the majority were involved in moving the committee in the right direction related to this issue, and that the proposition has thus improved. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think this has been a good debate that not only says something about the importance, but also about the seriousness of these issues that we are going to deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e692	Let me start by saying, as many people have said, that this has been a demanding matter, which we have gone deep into, and we have taken careful consideration. Nor is it that the limit of when you can use the different methods is necessarily static and that there is a fasit on it. It is therefore perfectly possible that the Committee has different assessments of when it can be used. And it's demanding to find the right thing. But I think it's extremely demanding that politicians don't take care of at least the footage we get from the police and others, which is so obvious that they're getting more and more behind in taking the criminals, because they don't have the tools they need. It was the representative Rotevatn who made me take the floor because he said something like that when the police ask for something, we give it to them. Yeah, I'll listen to it when the police say something. But in the proposition, there are many assessments of different measures that you had a desire to get, but you don't get, just for privacy reasons. Similarly, the Committee makes further restrictions on privacy. One would also like to see the threshold for, for example: the use of data reading shall be high. But then there are other areas where we give the police and the PST the opportunity to use the tools more often. It's not because, as Rotevatn says, you have to monitor what we're all ‘exercising time’ with. On the contrary, it is very targeted and should only be used in cases where the courts find that it is right – or of course urgent – but then there is thorough insurance and verification of it afterwards. The annual reports to both the EOS Committee and the Communications Control Committee show that it is not being abused. That is why we are also strengthening the budget of the Communications Control Committee, so that they can secure it further. Then Rotevatn is also in that we lower the threshold so that there shouldn't necessarily be a requirement for organized crime. Take one example – kill. So today it's okay to use it to ward off a killing that can be committed through organized crime. But are we going to say as politicians that it's okay to use it in organized crime, but not if there's no organized crime behind it? I can understand that organized crime itself makes it all the more serious, but if we can avert a killing through the use of hidden coercive agents, I would say it's positive. At least I have a very hard time saying you shouldn't do it. It might also be the main objection to Rotevatn, that it slides downwards, because you can argue the way I do now. Therefore, I would just like to refer to B. II in the setting, where we stress that we want documentation and follow the use closely, so that it should not slip further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e701	I'm getting into the sequence of them that all in all seem to me that this is a good and correct bill. At the same time, I also have a great deal of respect for those who become concerned every time these debates appear – those who have concerns about the position of privacy in Norway. I have a lot of respect for those arguments when they're about different weightings of different values. It is often the case that these debates involve some statements and interpretations that are simply false. I'm just going to stress that there are no claims that have come to this Chamber or otherwise in the political discussions between us parties, but in the public debate this issue has been quite grossly distorted, I think. I can start with the impression that the police are now able to monitor your and my cell phone. It's almost so you can imagine the online headlines: now Justis-Anders can see everything you're doing on your mobile phone! It's simply a false impression. It's almost about basic propensity when you use that kind of claim, that you also stress that if you have a possession of weapons of mass destruction, you plan mass killing, terror or threats against people within the three state powers, etc. The second claim that has often been made, usually from outside actors, is the disappearance of judicial control. That's just not right. It is also subject to strict democratic control through the Communications Control Committee. Another claim that has been made is that the suspicion is now absent and that it is almost open to the police at their discretion to implement these methods only because there is no ‘dispute reason to suspect’ in the legal text, but rather ‘reasons to investigate’. It is worth remembering that there are wordings that come precisely because it is pervasive in existing legislation. You put it in a system. The last and perhaps most important point, which is not mentioned in the debate here from the pulpit, is that everything is subject to a requirement of proportionality, which means that this methodology should ultimately only be used when there is a substantial need for it. It makes the total volume of this methodology not going to reach particularly large proportions, and at least it's far from the mass monitoring it's made an impression in certain circuits.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e716	I think that the word one has used most in this debate – apart from terrorism – is judicial control. Court control's good. It is a legal entity identifier. But it's not that judicial control is a magic data-protection wand, which ensures that a person can only give any privacy, because one has a court of law control, and then it's fine. The Court of Justice checks what we have in this Chamber, giving it the possibility to verify — the extent of the residence permits gives it the possibility to monitor. That is what we are discussing today: how far should it be possible to go? The bulk of the population says, it's going to be possible to go very far. Then the courts have no choice but to say it's okay. One can go very far – not just to investigate what has happened to serious crime, not just to stop it while someone is preparing it, but before it. That's what I took up in my first post: when one lets go so many steps back – towards the thought process itself – it's hard for a court to control the extent of the reason the police actually have to investigate this, as one says. So the representative Rugged points out that it's not just that one provides multiple possibilities for monitoring, one also makes restrictions in favour of privacy. To the extent that going three steps forward and one step back is an intrusion, he might be right. But what one tries to conceal here is that one actually makes it possible to go further. It might not be so strange that it happens. Because when the representative Ropstad stands on the pulpit here and says that if one can only prevent a killing, then one is willing to use hidden coercion, it tells me that the Christian People's Party is to prevent killing – we are also in the Left – but that there are very few legal certainty barriers at the bottom. It's problematic. Then it is not that those of us who are skeptical about introducing ever-new surveillance homes are too terrorist, too murder or too gross drug crime. But it is not that the scientific community and research point out that what we now need is new homes to prevent and prevent that kind of crime. What are the lessons from September 11th, from the bombs in London and Madrid or from July 22nd? Have you learned that one has too little monitoring? If we go to our own make commission, they said after July 22nd, ‘In the opinion of the Commission, the lessons learnt’ – from 22 July – ‘more on management, interaction, culture and attitudes than lack of resources’ – or ‘needs for new legislation’. [[...]] I thought we should listen to it and do what works, not what takes us in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e734	I think it has been a very good debate. But I also think there has been a debate that has shown that there are some strange things too. Not least, I think the representative Rotevatn, who in a way attacked the representative Roepstad to discuss this with killing in his post, shows a somewhat strange approach. As far as I understand it, the Left is a supporter of using hidden methods to ward off killing – provided that it is part of organised crime – but against averting the exact same killing if it is not part of organized crime. I don't think that the distance as a matter of principle is as much as you might have got the impression from the representative Rotevatn's post now last. There are some threshold changes, but to state that there are some dramatic big changes, I don't think that's why. The representative Asphjell also said a little about it with a threshold. I feel that there is a very large consensus in Stortinget about the possibility of using hidden methods both in a negative context and in an investigation context. What's been the biggest discussion is how far you're going in prevention, and that's often what's been used as what I'd like to call a little special examples, in public. Therefore, I would like to emphasise the following: firstly, it is that the PST can already use hidden methods to prevent terrorism, to prevent intelligence and espionage, and to prevent threats to government personnel. It's the current correct one. There are no proposals – as I have seen, at least – that would indicate that someone wants to change them. Then the government has proposed – and hopefully gets during the day the consent of the Stortinget – that one should also have the opportunity to use such instruments to prevent the use of weapons of mass destruction, i.e. biological weapons, chemical weapons, nuclear components. It is a small extension – and a well-founded one – especially when you look it up against what is right. It is not that the police can only initiate such a monitoring. There must be reason to investigate — i.e. not due to suspicion — but there must be grounds for investigation. Objective points of view shall be provided and there shall be grounds for believing that this intervention is essential for the prevention of the action, otherwise prevention will be significantly impeded and that the intervention does not appear to be disproportionate. So it's very, very, very far away from the impression that some people have tried to create, especially in the debate outside of this room, that they are now giving the police access to close to being able to do whatever they want with anyone. It's directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e747	I'm glad the Council of State was clear that you can't do anything with anyone. It's always a good clarification to bring with it! But joke aside: For the Advancement Party, some of what we're doing today is important and correct. We were the only party in favour of data reading during processing in 2004–2005 and, of course, with judicial review. It was the big theme at the time, and it was voted down by all parties except for us. Today we go that way. We thought it was right then, and we think it's right now, and we still have a court review in place. Another element in which previous legislation has shown that there has been a weakness is the requirement for federation, i.e. that there is more than one. The party of progress was clear at the time also that there is the potential for damage to which the individual or the grouping is off, which is important and which is the key to which methods can be used — and not the number. I have great respect for the fact that there are different arguments about how far to go. But at the end of the day, it's the future that will judge us on the basis of our certainty of the law that we present and that we support. Those who go against what is now happening today will be able to say in the utmost consequence that we were right. Or else we could say that you were wrong, and we were right, because the law that is now being passed had the advantage that it actually took care of society in the way we intended. It is difficult to enforce legislation, because one has a situation where one has to do something, and it is also quite difficult to ignore it when the professional authorities point out that we have weaknesses in our systems. Then you can either ignore it and say that we have to live with it, and take the political consequences, or you can go on with it, do something about it, and then take another kind of political consequence. But this is politics for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e760	Sveinung Rotevatn has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e763	What is the distance – actually – in this debate? I think a lot of us have a very different starting point, at least. Some know we'll go a lot further than what's agreed today, some of us will go a lot shorter, and then we've also been historically some of the places we meet on the road. I haven't said that we're now introducing a mass surveillance, or a monitoring society, but what I'm saying is that we're now taking some pretty big steps in the wrong direction. What's also a problem is that we're doing this step by step, and we've been doing it for years. One of the things the Methodological Control Selection meant was a problem, was that they didn't have enough knowledge about the effects of the homes that are already in place – what is the total of what this mass decides with ever new small steps? I would therefore like to close the debate by encouraging the representatives to vote in favour of the proposal that the Left has to deal with in the Grand Duchy to put down a data protection commission, which can give us precisely the important answers before taking any further steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e772	Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e775	It fits with a short note. Rotevatn was concerned about what is going on preventing killing, and I see that the Left has submitted a proposal together with SV to remove preparatory actions for terror. But as the Council of State pointed out in its intervention instead, there is a possibility of espionage, and there is an opportunity of threats to government officials. So it's okay for the Left that one should be able to use hidden coercive measures in terms of that type of crime, but not with terror. I say that because it's a little bit about the thresholds, and it's about how the debate appears. Because when the attacks come at us that so clearly emphasize that we are concerned with privacy, and we have made thorough considerations that protect privacy, then it feels a little hollow when a user uses such big words, and when one is in the same position. I see, for example: Nor, as the Council of State pointed out, is the proposal to remove what is going on the abduction of killings when it is organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e782	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e796	From a startling debate to another! The proposal modernises and harmonises Norwegian bankruptcy rules. The Norwegian bankruptcy law currently has no rules on the effects of bankruptcy and debt negotiations abroad or on the effects of foreign insolvency proceedings in Norway. It has become a problem because business is becoming increasingly internationalised. The proposal addresses this and an overall judicial committee has joined these good legislative proposals. A proposition like this may not create the big headlines, but securing effective debt recovery will mean a lot to create security and predictability in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e805	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e819	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e826	First, I would like to thank the proposers for addressing an extremely important topic and important proposals – on which the Committee has been involved on several occasions during this period. It's done a lot and adopted a lot. Much work has also been done on the specific issue of whether professional secrecy stands in the way of detecting violence and abuse. Proposals are based on the NOVA report ‘Demand obligations, information rights and information obligations. Regulations and practices’.» It was drafted on behalf of four ministries in March 2013. The report shows that confidentiality rules are generally perceived as valuable and necessary. A central response from the field is that they are not perceived as an obstacle to cooperation in practice. However, the report also shows that the informants do little to read the laws, circulars and guides, despite the fact that they feel uncertain about the rules in force. It is throughout that management’s knowledge and commitment to the legislation is of great importance to how well the individual employee is aware of the legislation. Another prominent feature of the report is that the exceptions to the obligation of professional secrecy in particular are not known. The Committee assumes that the findings described in the report are followed up in the work of the government to ensure the proper functioning of the obligation of professional secrecy and will not constitute an obstacle to the detection of violence and abuse. The Committee is also committed to ensuring good cooperation between the various departments, between health services, child protection, police, etc., and to having good regulatory competence to detect violence and abuse. The Committee is committed to, and refers to, the work undertaken to promote the obligatory and comprehensive plan of escalation aimed at reducing violence and abuse against children, which is to come to the harvest. The Committee has great expectations for that work. The Committee is also subject to Section 196 of the Penal Code on the so-called elimination obligation. In the opinion of the Committee, this is important, because for many children, it is that someone intervenes from the outside, perhaps the only rescue they have. The well-known recognition of the elimination obligation is also important for the Committee. The Committee emphasises that we are pleased that in its prioritisation directive, the Advocate General has warned that police and prosecution authorities need to focus more on enforcing this provision. In this context, a unanimous committee refers to the letter of reply of the Council of States, which refers to the fact that a work is being done and that he will consider whether the abolition obligation should be extended to more offences. As he writes: ‘I will consider these issues in more detail with a view to drawing up a possible proposal for an extension of the countermeasure’.» The Committee is concerned that children should be heard and that it is important that the professional bodies try to care for the needs of children to be protected from the importance and necessity of passing on to their representatives. In this context, we refer to studies that underline that children need to tell their side of the case without this being affected by parents' right of access. To this end, a unanimous committee also promotes proposals aimed at the assessment by the government of restrictions on, or suspension of, the right of access to the file and the right of access by the parties to documents relating to child protection when it is best for the child. There are many joint committee comments and some specific comments, but there are also nine proposals from the Labour Party and the Centre. I don't have time to explain these proposals, I expect them to do that. But on behalf of the Christian People's Party, and perhaps also on behalf of the majority, our assessment has been that in the case of example. The decommissioning obligation, which we are extremely concerned about, is doing very much good work. There are many investigations to be completed over and over again, and we have great expectations that it will be followed up – not only in the escalation plan, but also in individual cases that will come later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e850	Violence and child abuse have serious and long-term consequences for individuals. There is a serious social problem, and there is a need for broad cooperation between different public bodies such as health professionals, child protection, police, teachers — bodies working on the basis of different laws, different guidelines, and belonging to different cultures. The case has arisen because of the need for action to prevent professional secrecy and regulation from standing in the way of a good offer to children exposed to violence and abuse. There is evidence of the need to take action to ensure that the practice of legislation in the various levels of legislation is based on correct legal understanding and takes care of the best interests of the child. In Report 3/13 on professional secrecy, disclosure rights and disclosure obligations, the Norwegian Institute for Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing, NOVA, has a good example of how demanding it really is to practice, for example: the provision on exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy. The report also shows that the conditions of professional secrecy are not well known. It is a challenge that the rules on professional secrecy, disclosure and information rights are contained in different laws. They are partly different in design, including the Administrative Act, the Health Personnel Act, the Special Health Service Act, the Child Protection Act, the Children's Hospital Act and the Training Act. It's a challenge to coordinate. The NOVA report also shows that legislation is poorly harmonised, in particular with regard to the possibility of sharing confidentiality-related information with health professionals and administrative staff. The obligation to provide information does not always take precedence over the obligation of professional secrecy in matters relating to the protection of children. In order to ensure the child’s best in violent and criminal proceedings, the Workers’ Party considers that there is a need to see the different laws in the context and to have a comprehensive review of the legal provisions, so that we collectively regulate professional secrecy, disclosure and information rights. There must be no formal obstacles or lack of knowledge that make it difficult for the public to identify and follow-up cases of violence and abuse against children. The Labour Party believes that there is a good knowledge of these issues. There are measures and actions that are missing and that one needs to be done thoroughly by coordinating the law. I refer to the proposals of the minority, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which have been addressed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e867	The representative Lise Wiik has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e870	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good account of the substance of the matter and the Committee on the constructive work on this important matter. The intentions of the draft representative are easy to understand. Violence and abuse against children are serious crime, and in such cases many institutions are connected. All these agencies — kindergarten, school, child protection, health services or police — have different roles and different laws to deal with, and not least different practices. These establishments may have different understanding and practice of the rules on professional secrecy, disclosure and information rights in cases involving children who are victims of violence and abuse. This may be a challenge in providing these children with a good enough range of services. For me and the Right, it is to ensure that the legal security of children is safeguarded, and that the help of children who are subjected to abuse, abuse and violence is well coordinated, important. Then the obligation of professional secrecy and other legislation must not be a pretext for a lack of action. The concerns raised by this proposal for a representative were somewhat more nuanced during the hearing in the case. Most feedback indicates that professional secrecy rules are not perceived as an obstacle to cooperation in practice. However, the challenge may be that knowledge of the different provisions that apply is inadequate. It is then reassuring to record that the government has launched more investigations, has reduced samples and is developing guides and guidelines, precisely in order to improve the competence of those working in this important area. Knowledge and empowerment of administrative legislation are important in order to avoid the need for the assistance of children to be caught and given assistance. With this in mind, we assume that the government will come back with proposals for improvements in the Code of Confidentiality on matters relating to these children. With regard to the rights of access of the parties, it appears that it may be problematic to clarify the facts of the case as long as the parents have access from the outset. There may be situations in which children should be given the opportunity to tell on their part in the matter, without being affected by parents’ right of access. Therefore, it may be necessary to consider restrictions on, or suspension of, the right of access of third parties to the file and to documents relating to child protection, where this is best for the child. the proposal. Another important theme that has been highlighted in this case is the compulsory withdrawal. It is just as bad not to have knowledge of the responsibilities arising from the elimination obligation, as it is not to have sufficient knowledge of the confidentiality obligations. An overall committee welcomes the fact that in its prioritisation directive the Advocate General has warned that police and prosecution authorities need to focus more on enforcing this provision. Furthermore, the Minister of Justice has also announced that the government is reviewing the need to extend the abolition obligation to cover several offences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e889	I think I'll start by referring to something that the committee has written in the setting, and that I think is very important: ‘The obligation of inertia is important. At the same time, the Committee considers that it is immeasurably important to know its exemption provisions and not least another provision such as the abolition obligation. The Committee would point out that this obligation is enshrined in the criminal law. The Committee is concerned about the consequences of repeated breaches of the obligation to notify, provide information and remove vulnerable children.’;» For me, this is the essence of the proposal and of the problem that has arisen, and I also want, as others have done before me, to give tribute to the proposers. In my previous life, I worked 15 years with young people who were subjected to various abuses, violence, and the like. I believe that some of the worst things you can do is put on children who have been exposed to this, in the worst case of some of their closest, a new type of assault by the systems that are supposed to help them, actually don't do it, but let them go through processes that they are to be spared. In this way, any action we can take to address this target group is a good measure. I believe that not to do it in a way would be to accept that the system is more important than those who need the help, and that is an approach that at least the Progress Party will take a strong distance from. In this way, I am pleased that the government has an ambition to follow it up. Of course, I expect the systems to work together with the same focus, namely to help those who need help, and not to protect the systems for their part. In my opinion, it will be a direct record bomb in this setting. I also believe that one way to measure the quality of a society is to see how to take care of the weakest. Children at risk of violence are of the very least. They demand the greatest attention, and that we do our utmost to ensure that their daily lives are as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e903	The Judicial Committee had a useful hearing on this matter, pointing to a number of issues in today's legislation on compulsory education and the knowledge and practice of this legislation. I mean, the committee that got to the right, along with the recording I've got myself when I've met the relevant actors or else, shows that there is a need for action and action. So it's not enough just to refer to expert selections or guides. The obligation to provide services, as it is practised, prevents young people from being able to coordinate assistance from the various institutions. The centre party would like to ensure that the obligations of the party are not an obstacle to multidisciplinary cooperation. The aim is to provide the best possible follow-up for vulnerable and vulnerable young people. It is also crucial that young people be heard and that their needs be cared for. Of course, there is an enormous importance to the obligation to make tea, among other things. for private individuals to have confidence in health professionals. So you don't want to deny the obligations, but make sure that the rules of exception are well-known. The obligation to provide information, to notify it and to prevent it is also for a reason. If these obligations are strengthened, a discovery can prevent multiple cases of choice and abuse against young people. A balancing of the obligations to pay against these other obligations involves a difficult balance. A complex and fragmented code does not help those who need to make these assessments in practice. This has more feedback. A clearer set of rules may also have something to say about the confidence of individuals in how these rules are practised. The regulatory framework therefore needs to be simpler, more transparent – and it needs to be better known. In addition to the proposals from the representatives of the Labour Party, which I support, I have two own proposals. It's a matter of journal transparency. The other debt is compulsory. It may be a problem that parents have access to the journals of their children, in matters where parents themselves are suspected of being violent or sexually assaulted by these kids. This may lead to a risk of loss of proof or to the adaptation of explanations. I therefore believe that patient and user rights laws should be amended, so that the records of young people are not transparent if there is a risk of pre-empting evidence in the investigation of a criminal case. I therefore make the following proposals: ‘The Swedish Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal to include in the Patient Rights Act § 5-1 the possibility that access to the file should not be granted to parents and custodians if there is a risk of a criminal investigation, with the possible exception that a temporarily appointed person may be entitled to have access to the child’s patient record when parents are suspected of criminal offences against his or her own children.’ Furthermore, it is alarming that public recruitment does not provide sufficient information on, or training in, the fight against. While the public sign statements on obligations, they do not likewise recognise the obligation they have to give police notice or otherwise avert concrete criminal offences, such as those mentioned in the Criminal Code § 196, such as elected in close relations and election against young people. The deterrence obligation should have been notified in line with the obligations of the party, and relevant agencies should make statements on the obligations of the party to which they are subject, which must be signed by adding persons who, through their profession, may come in situations where they are subject to the deterrence obligation. The wording of Section 196 of the Penal Code on Liability should be clarified. Lawmakers have an obligation to avert serious offences in particular such as gross bodily injury, killing and abuse in close relationships. It must also be safe or most likely that the operation has been or will be completed. It is thus in the nature of those responsible that averting this kind of crime requires police communication, even if, in the circumstances, it is also opened in order to prevent it in another way. The prudence of the word does not make this clear. Alternatives can be interpreted as being equivalent. If the police notification is to be the general rule, the wording of the officers should be clarified. We therefore make the following suggestions: «The decision requests the Government to make proposals which clarify the removal obligation in Section 196 of the Criminal Code and which state that notification shall be the general rule under this provision.» The Labour Party has drawn up the proposals on which we agree with them earlier in the debate. In addition, I would like to address the two proposals from us in the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e939	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e942	On my way to Stortinget today, I went to the University of Oslo and Akershus to bring with me the presentation of NOVA's new report on the extent of violence and abuse against children. It is an incredibly important work that helps to improve our knowledge of the extent of violence and abuse against children. It shows a comparison with the situation in 2007, and it also gives some indication as to whether the efforts that we are all so concerned about should be made, actually have the results that we want it to have. In some areas, for example: the mild violence against children has been a reduction in the incidence. Gross violence is as extensive as it was in the past. There is also stability in the case of sexual abuse against children. It shows that there is a formidable challenge on very many levels, and so I want to welcome the commitment shown by both the Workers' Party and the Centre through these proposals. So it's also so that this engagement, and I think it's pretty well known for this hall as well, is shared by the government. That means we've been very concerned about the issues of professional secrecy and duty of action, and we've started a lot of work, which I did in my letter to the committee, to enable us to make the right choices. It is still the case that no strong claims have been made that the legislation itself is the problem, but that it is the knowledge, understanding and interpretation of the legislation and the balance of the legislation that has been demanding. Therefore, work has been carried out to ensure guidance. Work has been carried out to ensure information and information. Efforts have been made to assess whether legislative changes should nevertheless be considered in order to achieve a level playing field in this area. It is a demanding and extensive work, but all these things are under way. I don't like to use the term «to turn open doors», but I feel that this proposal bears the mark of it, also because there is so much support for the way in which we are actually solving this. Then I understand that from the Labour Party they believe that there is now time for action, and now you should not talk about this anymore. This is a commendable initiative, and that is why we are actually acting. But it is also important to act correctly, and what the proposals are largely about, is to ask the government to do something the government is already doing, and as the Government is aware that the government is implementing. I'm very happy that this has been focused on over a long period of time from many parties. I have answered questions about this issue many times from the Great Britain Chair, and I believe that we are now on track for this work, and that the job that is now being done will facilitate both the dissemination of information, the prevention of misunderstandings and, if necessary, the return of proposals to the Stortingen on changes in the rules, if it turns out that there is a need to change the provisions on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e955	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e959	The one who deserves it should also be given justifiably thanks. I therefore start with a thank you to the Council of State on a matter other than this, namely the letter from the Council of State to the municipalities on 1 April this year. He says that child abuse is part of the concept of ‘social security’, and municipalities are asked to use the Emergency Council to combat violence against children and young people. As it says, this type of violence and assault is serious, potentially life-threatening, and there is a clear link between violence and mental and physical health. He refers to research that sexual abuse, physical abuse and care failure are more important to mental and physical health than other stressful events. We should bear that in mind, for example. concerns us about a worrying growth in the number of young people with disability pensions and mental diagnosis. The previous Minister of Labour and Social Affairs answered questions from me that we do not know whether any of these young people have been subjected to violence in close relationships, sexual abuse or care failure. It will not be registered. When we visit the Nav office that works with this group, they answer that there are many, a large majority. I therefore hope that the municipalities will follow the Council of State's call for violence against children and young people to be the subject of the Emergency Council. As he points out, such violence is a typical cross-sectoral social problem. Response Councils may identify scope, identify weaknesses, close gaps in the cooperation between agencies, fill in areas where skills are lacking, and prevent them through systematic and ongoing cross-border cooperation. It is to hope that the municipalities will follow up. The statesmen should be propagandists. All the county benches must have regular meetings with their statesmen. I'm going to take up the follow-up to the Council's letter at the next meeting with the County Council in Buskerud. That should also be done by the other guttering representatives. The connection to today's case is obvious. An important point in the Workers' Party's proposal is that children suffer from a misunderstanding of professional secrecy. Poor knowledge of the deterrence leads to the same thing. We want to know more about the rules that actually apply. We want a government that makes it clear where the obligation of confidentiality begins and ends, and what the obligation of defence actually means. Because when the fear of doing wrong takes over, it can overcome the fear that children are suffering unnecessarily. It's not durable. We disagree a little on the pace of this matter, but agree on the goal. Where we want action now, the government and the majority point to investigations and action plans. Most of our proposals are being voted down today, but hopefully not forgotten. While we're waiting for investigations and plans, something has to be done, the council itself said. The gross violence and the sexual abuses continue. Therefore, the Security Councils should place increased awareness of the rules in force on their agenda. The floor managers are a smart place to start in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e970	Children who have been subjected to violence or are in crisis are vulnerable children. What they need most are adults who take responsibility and manage to create the trust that is needed to figure out what has happened. It requires competence. Confidentiality and disclosure may be difficult balance points. Feedback from those who work with children shows that many people are unsure where those boundaries go. The law is there, as the council says, but a lot of people are afraid to break the law that they're going to deal with. Someone waits and doesn't get caught, and see if others do. Many parties are often involved. Therefore, the obligation of professional secrecy must not prevent children from receiving assistance. Increased competence and more systematic training can help to do so, both in education and through the day-to-day work. In most cases, several agencies need to cooperate on the children, and everyone needs to know what they can communicate. Good supervisors, courses, continuing training and that this becomes a major part of education are good measures. When children tell their story and about bad experiences and do it in confidence that this is not told further, it is difficult to explain to the child that it happens anyway. The transparency of the parties makes it possible for parents in conflicts to see what has been said, and they can demand this. In many cases, the child is going back to both or to one of them, and we can imagine what's going on. Knowledge gives power, and the power relationship in these matters goes at the expense of the children. The trust gained by professionals is quickly broken. The next conversation may not be as easy. When the Committee now proposes that further consideration should be given to how delayed access rights can be achieved at the same time as parents, it is good and important. We must not allow transparency to contribute to the absence of information due to fear or influence. Here we have to look at what is most important and best for the children and the matter. I believe that the children's voices, which have emerged early through what the Change Factory says, should be heard. The change factory asks for it on behalf of the children. These are many good proposals that the Labour Party and the Central Party are promoting, for which we do not get a majority who would take better care of children. It's a shame they don't get a majority, but I hope and believe that the Council of State will take them further into all the work that's going on. When the Council of State says that the work is going on, it's very fine. But we're impatient. I think that things like this we have to deal with, talk about and lift up in the social debate in order that we do not jeopardize the reporting and non-hazardous duty of confidentiality, so that it does not become the will of evil. Thank you to the Council of State for taking this further, for I expect him to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e985	I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation, which I experienced as thorough and committed. The Labour Party wanted primarily to legislate on a coordinated code, because we believe that it would best help children who are victims of violence and abuse. The majority do not want to legislate, but provide for a better practice of current laws. There's not much difference between that. It's a pleasure that there's such a broad consensus in the hall to do the best to help our most vulnerable children. I really appreciate that. I would nevertheless challenge the Council of State in one area: when there is no common legislation, there is a responsibility for coordination between the various levels. I would have liked the Council of State to have informed something more about how he intends to discharge that coordination responsibility. Is it the case that this Council of States is responsible for coordination, or will it take responsibility? I would very much like to get a little more explanation for that -- so that the different floors are in a better community than they are now. Now we feel that it's too fragmented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e999	I am very pleased that the representative Wiik and the representative Mangt point out that there is really not so much disagreement in the room about the importance of this area. Everyone has the same intentions. And it may actually be that during the work we have now started, we will conclude that there is a need for changes in the law, and that we will then come back to the Biggest with changes in the law. It is by no means such that the hook is on the door for any changes to the laws, but now we have an investigation going on, such as. shall identify that need. And it's true, as the representative Wiik says, that this is a responsibility that is spread in many ways across different departments. That is why it has been important for us to coordinate our efforts, to create common guides, and to work together to provide all relevant departments with the same information on the limits of professional secrecy and the limits of the obligation to abolish. It's a work that's been going on over time. There are many results from this, but we still see that there is still too much uncertainty out there. There, as a government, we have an important responsibility, and the agencies have an important responsibility, to ensure that one gets the necessary knowledge and insight that makes one not to practice this contrary to what is intended by the law. That's why it's also important when we've done what we've done, made the guides that's made, and get the knowledge of what the status actually is, to assess the basis for any legislative changes as well. Obviously, it would be an advantage if we could get legal provisions that were more precise. The challenge is that there are different considerations in different areas, and there are some factors that may make it somewhat complicated. But that work is going on, and we're going back to Stortinget if there's anything more to be needed, including any legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1008	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1022	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1029	First, as the rapporteur-general, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. The majority of the Committee, composed of the representatives of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party, are committed to the very purpose of the Schengen Agreement, namely to make it easier and more effective for persons to travel in the Schengen area. In addition, the Norwegian export industry benefits greatly from simpler and faster cross-border transport. The majority agree that border cooperation and more open borders increase the risk of cross-border crime and illegal immigration. The Schengen Agreement therefore contains a number of compensatory measures to combat both cross-border crime and illegal immigration. This includes, inter alia: the rules on the requirements for external border controls. In addition, the establishment of close operational police cooperation and judicial cooperation on visa issues will take place. Schengen cooperation has been under pressure in connection with the increased flow of migration. The absence of a national border control requires increased and enhanced control at the external borders of Schengen. The border control at Schengen – Europe’s – is not good enough today. In this context, the majority of the Committee understands that, in line with EU countries, the government has applied the provisions of the Schengen acquis to reintroduce temporary checks at internal borders. The EU is therefore actively working to design different measures to ensure that Member States with external challenges can manage them. The majority of the Committee calls on the government in the negotiations with the European countries to work for satisfactory external border control and underlines the importance of effective control at the external borders in order to prevent uncontrolled secondary movements in Europe. If Norway were to withdraw from Schengen cooperation, which the Committee of course does not recommend, the costs of border control will increase. In that case, Norway will lose access to the Schengen Information System, which is an important source of information exchange with the corresponding authorities of other Schengen States. The police's ability to detect, prevent and prevent organised crime will be significantly reduced, and our security could be weakened. The majority emphasise that the part of the Schengen Agreement governing police cooperation is essential for national security. Furthermore, the reintroduction of border controls would result in significant competitive disadvantages for Norwegian industry and the economy, which the Committee would not recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1044	The purpose of the Schengen Agreement is to make it easier and more effective for persons travelling in and between Member States. The Schengen Agreement was already in place in 1985 and has since had several updates and extensions. The Schengen Agreement is a pattern of the Nordic passport union and has established extensive police cooperation in this region. Norway and Iceland, as members of the Nordic passport union, were associated with the 1996 Schengen Agreement, as passport freedom had already been established with Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Today, we see that the Nordic passport freedom is under pressure and that the temporary ID and passport controls introduced in Denmark and Sweden threaten the Schengen Agreement, which has been in force for more than 20 years and today includes 26 countries. The agreement abolishes border controls on persons and goods between countries and opens up extensive police cooperation. Europe's two passport-free areas, Schengen and the Nordic passport union, are linked, but there is still a need for passports for countries such as the United States and Japan. United Kingdom, Ireland and Switzerland. For traffic in and out of the Schengen area, there is passport control at both entry and exit, what we refer to as the external border of Schengen. The practical consequences of the Schengen Agreement are therefore the most important for people to avoid passport controls, and not least the fact that the Norwegian export industry, which is currently under great pressure, has great benefits from facilitating and speeding up the transport of its products to the European market. Of course, the majority of the Committee is aware that open borders increase the risk of cross-border crime and illegal immigration. It is also easier for asylum seekers with a residence permit in one Schengen country to travel to another, and similarly that the authorities of one country have the opportunity to reject asylum seekers who have been refused in another Schengen country. The agreement also provides for common rules on combating terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and other forms of serious international crime. Among other things, police patrols will be given the opportunity to persecute people across the border on a fresh track and to conduct observation of suspects. However, such activities are subject to national control and foreign police officers cannot exercise police authority on foreign territory, for example. arrest. For the Workers' Party and the majority of the Committee, it is important to clarify that we record that border controls at the external border of Europe are not sufficient and that the government, in line with other EU countries, must apply the provisions of the Schengen acquis to reintroduce temporary checks on persons at the internal border. The Labour Party will also stress that the Agreement contains several compensatory measures to combat cross-border crime and illegal immigration. The absence of national border control requires control at the external border of Schengen. It is therefore essential for the EU to put in place measures and common legislation that contribute to strengthening the security of borders, while at the same time providing mechanisms to ensure rapid and effective border crossings that do not weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian businesses and the economy. The Workers' Party cannot support proposals that would weaken our security and contribute to the reduction of police's ability to detect, prevent and prevent organised crime. The Schengen Information System and the Visa Information System are important sources of information exchange with the corresponding authorities of other Schengen countries. In conclusion, I would like to stress from the Labour Party and the majority that the part of the Schengen Agreement that regulates police cooperation is of great importance to our national security, both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1074	The idea behind Schengen was absolutely good. Without a doubt, many people ended up with an idea that we should have strict control of our outer borders around Europe, and then we should move freely internally. It has worked for many years, but when we saw the asylum flow coming, it was probably more than I saw that Schengen undoubtedly has some weaknesses. Even the most intense defenders of the Schengen system today will have to admit that Schengen as such has major challenges. It is therefore quite natural that the EU has taken this seriously, that Norway has taken this seriously, and that we have participated in the arenas that exist, with the Minister of Justice and others, to talk about how we can strengthen Schengen, so that we can do the job we are actually assigned to. In addition, fortunately – and I say fortunately – it is possible in this agreement to introduce its own national border control if Schengen does not deliver at its external borders. The government has taken advantage of the opportunities that exist, and so am I and the Advance Party. In the situation we have had in the last year, with the increased flow of asylum and the increased terrorist threat we know to exist, and that we know that there are and can be potential terrorists hiding among asylum seekers, it is clearly more important than ever that Europe has control over who enters our continent. It was probably more than I – also in the Justice Committee – that was a bit surprised when we were in Italy in January and heard about how the Schengen control system had worked at the external borders a year ago, i.e. approximately. 140 000 migrants arrived and only half were registered at the Schengen border. The other half were given the opportunity to move further into the Schengen system. It shows that this didn't work. So we are totally dependent on strengthening the Schengen borders if Schengen is to survive as a system, and the countries must be willing to use the resources required to make this system work. Me and the Progress Party are very concerned that as long as Schengen cannot guarantee hermetically closed borders, with border controls on who is coming, the government must have the powers required and which are available to you in order to have national border controls. In fact, we want to know who's coming to our country. With the increased terrorist threat we've had over us in the last few years, it's more important than ever. I personally understand that many are asking questions, and I have asked questions myself, but in any case, if you really want to leave Schengen, it is perhaps the worst time to go out now, because it is now, when we are first in the system, we need the information exchange that exists, so that we can do a real job of border control. Therefore, it is absolutely impossible to support proposals that it is now time to sign out and that it is now time to discuss a common Nordic passport union. Nobody, either in Sweden or in Denmark, is interested in discussing it now. Now you are interested in making Schengen work. But I'd like to join in and discuss the way forward, how Schengen is going to be better. I am very much in favour of the Schengen system being able to do the job for which we have appointed it, and then we must be able to have national border control until all things are in place at the external border of Schengen. Europe is being challenged by the increased flow of asylum we have seen in the last year. It is clear that when you hear that some terrorists who have turned on in Paris and Brussels have hidden themselves in this flow of asylum. It shows that we are facing some challenges that a few years ago were not something that was natural in Europe. But we are in that situation today. The Progress Party is committed to the need for the government to have the necessary powers to ensure national border control if Schengen does not deliver, but at the same time we must provide the Schengen funds, resources and personnel to do the job they are assigned to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1093	Together with the representatives Per Olaf Lundtigen and Liv Signe Navarsete, I have put forward a proposal for Norway to withdraw from the Schengen border rules. This isn't something we in the Center Party have come up with all of a sudden. On the contrary, since the establishment of Schengen cooperation, building up national borders between countries would lead to problems of cross-border crime. We have seen developments in recent years with more mobile crime and trafficking in human beings, and we also know that terrorists are benefiting from built-up national border controls. The second party, which has been opposed to reintroducing national border controls for years, has just referred to border controls as important, since many asylum seekers have come to our country last fall, but these parties will not step out of the agreement that now makes it impossible to have national control over border controls. They will be based on seeking – and hopefully allowed – to extend the temporary national border control until further notice. As a representative of a party occupied by national self-government, it is both difficult to understand and difficult to accept. As a Schengen member, Norway is part of a larger area with a common external border and internal travel freedom. The purpose of this cooperation is to ensure that all Schengen countries implement the common acquis in an effective and defence manner. This arrangement has not been met. One can go so far as to say that the outer border control has a large number of places. Even state councils from the blue and very EU-friendly government have pointed out that the external border control of the Schengen area is far too poor. In practice, this is about the Schengen Agreement taking away important tools to stop criminal people and the criminal environment. This applies partly to criminals from Schengen countries themselves, but not least to criminals from countries outside the Schengen area. If someone first enters Schengen via a badly controlled external border, it is freely rented to us. Due to the freedom of passports in the Schengen area, there is no control over who crosses the borders between the Contracting countries. Several Schengen countries have temporarily introduced different forms of national border control, but the Schengen rules set limits on the duration of such national border control. The Schengen Agreement is now under strong pressure and there is a great deal of debate in the Schengen countries about the future of the agreement. The centre party has always been sceptical about Schengen and has long pointed out that external border control in too much of this area has been too weak. A nearby solution is to reintroduce national border control. Good border control is essential to assert national sovereignty, and national border control is an important and effective tool to stop people who should not have access to the empire. The state will also have more control over who lives within its borders. I would like to stress that we have a number of limited agreements on cooperation between Norway and the EU which, irrespective of our connection to Schengen, are to be continued. Examples of this are cooperation agreements with Europol and Eurojust. Such agreements can still be extended in spite of Norway’s withdrawal from border cooperation, in the same way that the United Kingdom and Ireland have judicial policy agreements with the EU without being themselves members of Schengen. It is about being solution-oriented, and it is possible to find solutions in cooperation with countries and the EU. Our draft representative points out that a reestablished Nordic passport union could be a better solution than the border cooperation we have under the Schengen Agreement today. Nordic cooperation is important for Norway. Norway was part of a Nordic passport union for several decades before we joined the Schengen Agreement, but we see that for different reasons it is not necessarily possible to find a Nordic solution in the short term. The work for this must still begin now. I would also like to stress that modern technology does not require border control to be particularly invasive, time consuming or to the detriment of those who cross borders. The security check may take longer than a passport check. There is therefore no significant argument against reintroducing national border control. I would like to reiterate that the objective of introducing border controls for travellers from Schengen countries is to ensure the security of the kingdom, to prevent cross-border crime and to gain better control of who comes and lives in Norway. Therefore, the country must withdraw from the parts of the Schengen Agreement which deal with border control. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1119	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1122	Norway has not had border control over its Nordic neighbours since the 1950s. The proposal from the Central Party is to reintroduce border control against our Nordic neighbours. I think it is a challenging proposal, although I also see that Schengen, as it works today, has major challenges. I'll come back to that a little bit. It is a dilemma with the proposal of the Central Party when the representative Klinge from the pulpit says that one must have control over who is going to enter Norway, and those who have nothing to do here, for example. criminals, one must be able to stop at the border. But a prerequisite for stopping criminals at the border is that one knows they're criminals, and it's the Schengen information system that's going to give us that information. There is information that we will not have access to if we sign out of Schengen. I think it is a little difficult to get the EU into a system where we will have all the benefits of Schengen membership in terms of cooperation and information sharing on the one hand, but not the disadvantages, which involve joint responsibility for external border control on the other. That is why I find the proposal to be difficult to understand, especially in the situation we are currently facing, which the representative, Mr Leirstein, was also involved in. In addition, it would be a consequence that the Dublin Agreement would be lost. The Dublin Agreement and the Schengen Agreement are closely linked. This would in reality mean that the influx of asylum to Norway could increase dramatically, because all those who then receive treatment for their asylum application in the EU and who are refused there can go on to Norway and ask for asylum in Norway – or else do not seek asylum when they come to Schengen, and yet seek asylum in Norway, and Norway does not initially have the opportunity to return to the first country of arrival, which is the foundation of the Dublin Agreement. So it's also that the Dublin Agreement doesn't work as intended today, because of the situation we're in, but there's another question that I'm coming back to. In addition, the proposal will incur billions of costs. There are costs that are heavily charged to the police, and if you look at the resource situation the police are in, which is far better than what it was under the red-green government, correctly, it would be a jaf into the police budget that would be of enormous proportions, and it would have enormous consequences for the police's ability to solve other challenges. When Schengen experiences difficult and demanding situations, Schengen is working together to find solutions. When Norway has reintroduced national border controls on ferries from Sweden, Denmark and Germany, it was initially in accordance with the provisions of the Schengen acquis, which states that we could not maintain such controls beyond the current summer period. But also the EU, Schengen, the Commission and the Council see that we are now in a completely exceptional situation, and therefore there is an opportunity to extend that border control to November. I'm very pleased about that, and I think it's a crucial prerequisite for us to have the opportunity to have better control over who's crossing our borders, as the situation is now. But the common task we all have now is to make Schengen work, so that we can get control of the external borders. We need to contribute resources and capacity to ensure that we have closed borders, that we have return agreements that ensure that the Schengen system can function properly again. If we do not succeed – against assumption – I agree that a person must consider different alternatives. And then I think the whole EU and Schengen will depend on evaluating different options. But what must be the primary job right now is to make the Schengen system work optimally, reintroduce full control at the external borders and contribute to what we can do. Then we will gain control of terrorists or others who are trying to get into not just Norway but the whole of Europe. We know, based on the experience we have behind us now, with attacks in different parts of Europe, that terrorism can be moved between countries, and I am quite convinced that some of the cases we have seen would not prevent people we want to prevent from entering Norway, because we do not want to have access to the information we have access to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1137	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1140	For me, there's a big paradox that the Progress Party, which is constantly making itself a party that wants to fight crime, is not to use border control as an instrument. While there has been an ever-increasing increase in cross-border crime since Norway was a member of Schengen, it was only when the influx of asylum was great that the Progress Party reacted. Then, all of a sudden, border control is an important tool. My question to the Council of State is: why does national border control cease to be important if the EU is to have control of asylum influx?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1147	I am a member of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement shall help us to move people and businesses as far as possible within the EEA territory. The Schengen Agreement is an important follow-up to that idea, so that a genuine passport freedom exists between Member States. It is an idea that helps to strengthen the fight against crime, because all the national police authorities in the Schengen area are working together on the exchange of information and the fight against organised crime and cross-border crime in a way that we have never had before. If we are to make that system work, we must be part of Schengen. However, it obviously requires that one of the basic principles of the Schengen Agreement be met, namely that one has control of the external borders. It is absolutely essential that that control be restored so that we can have a functioning Schengen again. It is only when we have a functioning Schengen, it appears to be timely to remove the national border control that we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1155	Obviously, this is a difficult theme for many. When one hears the argument, not only from the Council of State, but also from the other parties in the Chamber, he is very impressed with the scare-mongering propaganda – that everything is going to happen if we are not to have this internal passport freedom in the Schengen area. It is important from my point of view to clarify that Norway opens up a great advantage of having judicial agreements with the EU, but that benefit also goes the other way. The EU has advantages in working with Norway. I'm asking the councillor: does he really think that we're going to be treated very differently than for example. Great Britain and Ireland, because they are not members of Schengen either, if we were to step out?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1162	There will be absolutely incomparable sizes, for England and Ireland are members of the EU. It's not Norway, and I haven't registered that the Center Party wants us to be part of the EU. The cooperation we are now receiving through the Schengen cooperation is precisely due to the Schengen cooperation. If we are not part of the Schengen cooperation, we have no contractual relationship in this area of security. We do not have access to the information registered in the Schengen system, and it will be a serious blow to the fight against organised crime and also to control within our own borders. I fully agree that everything will not be wrong if we reintroduce national border control – not at all. But it will create a number of security challenges, as well as solving someone else. It will create a number of information challenges and interaction challenges that I think it will be demanding to deal with. In addition, then, we impose a great deal of disadvantage on our citizens and businesses and take money from the police's other areas of activity. I don't think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1171	The Schengen external border has collapsed. It is not my words; it has been agreed by leaders from all over Europe. It hasn't worked, it's been an administration that's been completely out of control. Countries by country have introduced national measures, national border controls. It is then amazing in the debate today that the Progress Party and the Right, the government, do not see that the system that has been set up, with one common European external border, is not sufficient to control, neither illegal immigration nor cross-border crime. Is it the case that the Progress Party is now in principle opposed to introducing more national border controls, or is it just afraid to go across the EU's positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1178	The Progress Party is a member of the Schengen Agreement, but the Schengen Agreement must be fulfilled in order to obtain the benefits of the Schengen Agreement that we think we should have. The government has been very committed to contributing to the restoration of the Schengen Agreement, because that is what it is really all about. We have to contribute our resources to ensure that we can restore the external border control. Then we don't have any fundamental counter-conceptions about reintroducing national border control when needed. That is why we have reintroduced national border control for ferry calls from Sweden, Denmark and Germany, precisely because we believe that we are now in an exceptional situation in Schengen. And it is a responsibility of all Schengen members to contribute to restoring the normal position and situation with Schengen, so that we can derive the benefits it actually is, both information sharing for businesses and people and other benefits related to Schengen cooperation. But then we must also help to correct the deficiencies that are now the case along the external border.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1185	The main individual measures to improve the control of immigration flows last autumn were different border control measures, to re-establish a system on Storskog, so that we got control of the border, that Sweden and Denmark have introduced border control, and that we introduced border control at certain points. It was across what is in a way the intention of the Schengen Agreement, but with a six-month derogation. Now that time has passed. If the Norwegian Government is informed from Brussels that a person is not allowed to continue with national border control measures, will it be national interests that weigh more or will it be to go after Brussels?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1192	This is a hypothetical problem, because we have already received the Commission and the Council's acceptance that we should continue to carry out this border control, initially until November. I assume that the EU has thus accepted that it has national border measures, as long as the situation in the Schengen area is as it is today. So that interest is already well served and in consultation and in cooperation with the Schengen and EU systems. Everyone is concerned that we should make the Schengen system work. Everyone is now helping us to cope with the extraordinary situation. Measures have already been implemented which contribute greatly to reducing migration to Schengen from Turkey, and there is a completely new Schengen border system on the steps, which is a completely different way of resolving border controls, with even stricter requirements for Member States and even stricter follow-up from Schengen itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1199	I just have to do one more thing, because it hails with claims about what's going to go wrong if one goes out of Schengen cooperation. There's only one thing I want to ask the Minister of Justice, specifically. That is the claim he made on the Dublin Agreement and on asylum, which we in the Central Party are obviously concerned about having sensible agreements in Europe. But now it is true that neither the United Kingdom, Ireland, Romania, Bulgaria nor Cyprus are in Schengen, but they are in the Dublin II Regulation. I think the Minister of Justice is going very far in claiming that we have to get out of justice cooperation, we have to get out of the Dublin Agreement, etc., if one goes out of Schengen, and connects it so strongly to exactly this border cooperation. I would like the Council of State to elaborate on this as I would be inclined to call it a terror propaganda from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1208	I'm not trying to propaganda for anything; I'm trying to express the way I perceive the situation, and I think it's good. I don't think we can do what Jenny Klinge is trying to do: to look at the EU as a kind of à la carte menu: we're picking out what we think it's all right to be in, and then we're not going to contribute in the areas where the EU needs us. Announcement of Schengen will have major consequences, such as: helping us to feel no obligation to contribute to restoring control at the Schengen external border, because our resources must then go exclusively to address our own national borders. The Dublin Agreement is a rather closely linked part of the Schengen area, and I think it is illusory to believe that we can maintain a Dublin agreement and a cooperation agreement on the return of asylum seekers who have arrived first, if they do not have the Schengen Agreement. The whole point of this connection is that the first country of arrival should take responsibility. And if the first country of arrival will always be a country to which we have no real contractual relationship, of course they won't be part of any Dublin agreement either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1215	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1220	One might wonder if the Centre Party has thought through the consequences of its own proposal. This is really too serious to be met with a shoulder move. It was agreed at the Central Party national meeting in 2013 that Norway should exit the Schengen cooperation. Then you risk a lot. Risks include: a build-up at the borders of Norway, that people seeking asylum in Norway cannot be returned. The Dublin mechanism will expire and Norway has no right to return persons who are not entitled to stay in Norway. You can see a little more concretely about other consequences of this, what will happen at the border with Sweden. The limit between Norway and Sweden is Europe’s longest border. It's 1 630 km. There are 50 border crossing points. If you're going to have a continuous border guard there, and on Svinesund, where there are 5 million passages this year, you're going to have a huge need for funds to serve it. In Norway, there are 70 million individual trips from the country. If you want to have passport checks on these, you see for yourself what a huge control system you're about to rig in place. Will the Center Party go in for this? Have you somehow gone into the consequences of this? And, as the Minister of Justice said, leaving Schengen cooperation will put back decades on the possibility of fighting cross-border crime. There is no access to the Schengen Information System, which is crucial for road authorities, customs authorities and police authorities in order to effectively combat crime in these areas. Would you believe that this proposal to withdraw from Schengen came up – yes, what should I say – at the Central Party meeting outside the National Assembly Hall itself, perhaps at the Central Party national meetings, which are known for being pleasant and creative?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1231	I note that the Progress Party and the Right clearly believe that Schengen is a huge success, that it has been a system that has worked, that has created security on our borders and that has created stability and tranquillity in Europe. Is it? It hasn't, it's been a failure. When Schengen was put to the test, it was not possible to catch up with the problems that were there. When it was a crisis, it wasn't robust enough. And when you start asking questions about it, you attack those asking questions instead of asking critical questions about the system we've joined. For Schengen, it has not functioned when tested, as large parts of the second EU system. When there was a financial crisis in Europe and the euro was put to the test, the EU was unable to respond. Now that we have had a major immigration crisis, the EU was unable to respond, then the nation states needed to take action. It was when we went across Schengen that we were able to gain control – when the nation states began to introduce national border controls, and then the EU has had to join forces afterwards. So the EU system has not shown that it tackles the crisis we are now facing, and it has not shown that it tackles crises in the past. But the nation state has shown a completely different ability to deal with crises, and therefore border control is not a rarity. It's been a normality, it's been a characteristic of a country that has control at its own borders. It was the biggest problem in the fall, when the government stood the paralytic and saw that it had no control over the border at Storskog. It created uncertainty in the country, and then, after pressure from the Storting, it was finally possible to act and get control of the border there, because it must have a country. Then I understand that Anders Anundsen is confused about it, because it was doubtful to see how the government reacted to the situation we were facing. The Norwegian government did not dare to say that national measures would be taken at the border before the Swedish and Danish governments said so, because they do not dare to introduce measures on their own. The opinion of the centre party is that we must have the means to do it, and this proposal also concerns – and we challenge the government – to enter into a dialogue with our Nordic neighbours to discuss: Can we again have more of a Nordic border cooperation? For EU border cooperation, it has not been shown to work. But for the Progress Party and the Right, it's very dangerous to think of a single new idea of frontier cooperation, even though you've seen that the system we have today is not working. Then the government should be crystal clear on one thing. The government has been vague in the discussion of a common coast and border guard in Europe. For it is the EU's response that more power should be given and a common border guard should be established in Europe, which can go across national authorities. I believe that it is totally unheard of that Norway should join such a system, because it must be the national authority, not the EU authority, which is going to enter and take control of the borders of each country. If you open it first, we think it's going to create more conflict, not less conflict, so the government should be perfectly clear. It is not appropriate for Norway to give up authority — even in a crisis situation — to a common coastguard and border guard, which the EU is now establishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1243	It's interesting to right the arrogance you can register from the case spokesperson in an important matter. The most important task for all the populace is to secure the daily lives of the citizens of the country. We can't say that too often. Then the Storting a short time ago handled Report. St. 37 for 2014-2015, Global Security Challenges in Foreign Policy, said the following: ‘The Committee notes that several of the safety challenges we face relate to the cross-border movement of threat individuals. These are people who can have different roles based on where they are in the world but who in any case contribute to threats to national security.» This is a clear speech from a Joint Committee. But the big paradox that history may have is that it's going to be a hard one: a bunch of magnifications recognize this comment as a problem that multiples aren't willing to do anything about! Today, we don't know who lives in Norwegian territory. Everyone understands that it is a measure of security against Norway. Responsible authorities simply don't know who's in our country today, or what motive they have to be here. I would remind you that when Norway abolished the border control, this was done under the authority of Schengen's external borders. It has not worked. It's collapsing. The government itself stated that when there is no control of the external borders and the incoming ones are not recorded, the Schengen system is broken down. Even Schengen champions have serious problems defending today's system. With technological developments in recent years, the introduction of personal checks at borders between Schengen countries could also be implemented effectively and rapidly. Biometric passports can make border controls both safer and more efficient. Such control will easier capture sought criminals, and people with false passports will be detected. Samples are not enough for Norway with a satisfactory probability to be able to stop people who are not reluctant to provide access to Norwegian territory. The Grand Duchy has managed the Norwegian association to Schengen twice. The center party has its voice no both times, we're still against the agreement, and history is going to show that the centre party has had the right hold on this matter. My appeal to Stortinget today is to stir up our proposal and with the secure control and control of who lives within our territorial borders at all times. I would also like to reiterate the challenge from the previous speaker: the Meiner Progress Party and the Right that Norway should give its image to the EU in a common coast and border guard? There is a question that the government has to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1263	True, and it should sometimes be: I have always wanted to go to the Central Party national meetings that I have heard so much about. They are not exactly aware of the fact that there are major, serious issues discussed by Schengen there – there are very different things, I have heard rumors about – so I thought the case spokesperson should show both the theme and the centre party more respect in how he talks about this and where their proposals come from. I am a little surprised that it seems that the major challenges facing the whole of Schengen cooperation and the Dublin regulation that are being opened up are the stronger the use of words from the Right and the Progress Party against the proposals to do something about it. It is quite obvious to everyone that Schengen cooperation has been, and is, in a critical situation, and that the Dublin Regulation as it is today has so many weaknesses that either adjustments or significant changes should be made to it. I think everyone understands that walking completely away from important parts of what's lying there is impossible. Well, I guess that's like... it is highly desirable to retain essential elements of the police cooperation which is part of the Schengen cooperation. It is also quite clear that what we need in Europe is more and more close cooperation on asylum and refugee policy, not the exact opposite. The weakness now is that the EU has not managed to deal with this jointly. Having a better and more lively debate on how Schengen cooperation works would be wise. The Socialist Left will nevertheless vote against proposal No. 1-3, from the Center Party, today, and that's for two reasons. The first is that it is hardly by means of a proposal for a representative that we should decide on whether or not we should be part of the Schengen cooperation. We probably had not joined the EU or left the UN by means of a proposal for a representative. This is a very big decision, which I think will require that one has thought significantly through it before, no matter what the point of view. So I didn't think the three proposals were mature enough. It is also true that, right where we are now, Schengen cooperation has major challenges, but right where we are now, it is also imperative to say that we should reintroduce national border controls, with all the major consequences it would have. On the other hand, I think that proposal No. 4, from the Centre Party, is a good proposal, simply to provide a big message on alternatives to Schengen cooperation – which could discuss how it works, what weaknesses it has, what aspects of cooperation it is absolutely necessary to take on board, and to review what national interests are facing this. That would be a little 'big' way of meeting the challenges that we have in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1278	I, the undersigned and the representative of Navarsete, may at least agree that this proposal originates from a national meeting – and everyone who has attended a national meeting knows that there are policies outside the national meeting room. But to the matter: it was the representative of the Battle of Vedum who mentioned the Nordic passage work. It will not be possible to re-establish that cooperation. Norway cannot force such cooperation in place when the countries with which we actually want to cooperate in the Nordic region remain Schengen countries. It's kind of an impossibility -- in mathematics, one would have said that the solution set is Ø. Independently of the Schengen and Schengen external borders, the challenges in Europe are at a very different footing. It lies in instability in the Middle East, and it lies in the enormous population growth and the lack of economic growth in Africa. If you want to solve this problem, you have to solve it, for example. economic growth, trade, trade barriers must be reduced, protectionism must be reduced in order to lift a whole continent out of poverty. But that's also the Center Party against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1287	I have recently read in the paper that it is I that is usually characterised as arrogant, not the representative of Elvenes – but it is refreshing that you can change the characteristics. I have to admit that I think it is strange to hear the representative of Schlagsvold Vedum explain himself about the situation in Storskog. There is, of course, good national border control – there we have the control regime that the representative thinks we should implement throughout the country. So that control regime did not limit the influx of asylum until we had our own legislative change in place, which ensured that we could regard Russia as a safe third country. So the explanation of the story that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, is trying to do here is simply wrong. I don't think it should be left unanswered in the record – that's why I think there's a need to say it. But that is the system that the representative, Mr Vedum, believes must solve all problems. I am quite convinced that this will not be the case. I would also like to say that I fully agree that Schengen is far from perfect. There are enormous challenges in Schengen now. It is a sort of crisis throughout the Schengen system, and we should not put that under the chair. But then we can solve it in two ways: either by saying OK, then we'll do our best alone – and no other country thinks that idea now – or by saying that we have to do everything we can to make it work. If, however, we cannot do it – against any assumption – we must sit down and look at what kind of solutions we can then find, together with others. The fact that Norway was going to go solo in this regard, I think that I would lead us into the really cold shadow valley of cooperation with other EU and Schengen countries, but also with regard to sharing information on exactly what we are so concerned about, namely people who should not be able to move freely across borders. Then I fully agree with the representative of Navarsete that our most important task is to secure the citizens. I am far from sure that the proposal to the Central Party will help to secure the citizens. I think it could contribute to the opposite, and that's why I'm so concerned that we have to deal with this differently from just saying that if we leave Schengen, all problems are resolved. I think we would have experienced a number of new problems, and it doesn't help to try to solve one problem by creating a new one. Once again, I would like to remind you that Schengen is now working hard with a common border control system that will work much better, with better capacity and safer cooperation with the nation states. As for the question from the Central Party about our attitude to the possibility of going into other countries, I have explained it several times earlier. It is Norway's model that has been chosen. It is such that a person is given a requirement, action is taken. If one does not meet those requirements, the Schengen border will be moved, so that one will in reality be temporarily suspended, instead of an intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1302	The basic position of the centre lot is that having border control is a prerequisite for a country. That's our basic attitude. Then there was a large majority who in their time made us sign up for Schengen, which we voted against, and then we had to control the external borders of almost the whole of Europe. You don't know that. When it was not possible to control the external borders in Europe, countries have returned to their originals, starting with national measures. That is what we in the Central Party believe is absolutely essential that we have the opportunity to do in the future, that we can have national measures at the border. That is why the various proposals in that proposal for a representative are different. We believe that the last six months have shown that it was necessary for Denmark to implement measures, for Sweden to implement measures, for Norway to implement measures – we believe that it is a sustainable system. Representatives of the Progress Party said a few months ago that it would be completely irresponsible to abolish the national border control now. In this case, it should at least be an objective for Schengen-related people to have the kind of national measures that a permanent Schengen regime can take – that when the national State itself sees the need for action at the border, it can do so. For now it is across Schengen. Right with Vice President Ingerd Schou has been out and said positively that we must go beyond the six months. Keshvari of the Progress Party has been out saying positively that we have to go beyond the six months, while now he is defending Schengen with skin and hair in this Chamber, although all the parties a few months ago – at least we who wanted to have control of the borders then – said that we had to go beyond what was initially the Schengen provisions. In that case, it should at least be the view of the Right and the Progressive Party that they wish to enter into and amend the Schengen Agreement, that more national measures can be taken, that longer periods can be put in place, and that there should be no waiting for mercy from Brussels. What Anders Anundsen said here instead, was that the European Commission has now seen that there is an exceptional situation, so we can have national measures a little longer. But let's say you hadn't seen it. Does the government think that we should not have taken action because we believe it to be right in Brussels? We believe that we have to have that freedom, regardless of what you mean in Brussels, because we are the Norwegian big business, we have the Norwegian government, we have the Norwegian police and the Norwegian legal system – we have to take responsibility for our borders and for our handling of the situation we are up against. We may have different views on Schengen, but you who were so passionate about border control a few months ago should see that it is wise to have it in the future. That's why it's amazing that you're spending time rattling instead of seeing positively that there are some parties here that want to have control, because it's crucial both for immigration policy and for crime policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1313	Let me start with Mr. Navarsete's posts, and start with what she said, where she said that the most important thing was to ensure the security of the citizens. That's basically something I totally agree with. At the same time, I find it reasonably provocative in the light of the fact that the government was actually in office on July 22nd, five years ago. If you read the Gjørv Commission report, it concluded quite carefully that the government that was then sitting there did not do what the representative Navarsete requested this government to do – to have it said right away. So I think it's naive to go back to a scheme that's been. Firstly, I believe that the opening-up of this proposal shows that it is a policy that does not have a very large degree of support, as the debate progresses at least now. I am not a major EU member, to say it very carefully, but I am a major supporter of Schengen cooperation, because I believe that the fight against terrorism and other serious, cross-border crime must be done together. It is when you stand alone on individual measures, the individual, that you become weak. That's when you work together to fight it, you get good. Why do we have Interpol? This is because, through international police cooperation across borders, there is a need to be able to do a better job together. Why do we have the UN? The UN is there as a tool to do things and intervene beyond what individual nations can do. Schengen's ambition is the same. Then you can not like or like the EU. You can dislike or like Schengen. But they're there, and today I want to say that's the least bad thing we have. And if that's the least bad we have, we're going to take care of it. Instead of removing it, we have to assume that it has weaknesses. And then we have to challenge the relationships that are worth sharing in the Schengen cooperation to get better. When we recognize our weaknesses, we recognize where the potential for improvement is, we have two possibilities: either we can ignore the facts, or we can get up and do something about it. I belong to those who think we should get up and do something about it. Ignoring it will be what the representative Navarsete was into, not taking care of the citizens' woes and well. The opposite is the answer, the opposite is the solution, and it does this government with a large number in its back.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1326	I take the word again because I think the post of Battle of Vedum is a mix of a lot of different things at once, and it's hard in one way to take one from the other. Battle violence Vedum concludes with a broad pen that Schengen cooperation is a failure. It's based on an extraordinary situation that we're now in. The question is whether Norway with national border control would be better able to address the situation. There are no arguments from the Centre Party to indicate that the situation in Norway would be dealt with so much better. And that's what's the question, whether one through national border control, as the situation is now, would achieve a better result. Then there may be a misunderstanding that exists related to these six months. The agreement says you can have border control for up to really eight months, because there are two emergency months and then another six months. The reality is that Schengen has said that it extends the possibility of having national border controls. This means that Schengen actually works, because they see that there is an exceptional situation here, where individual countries have specific challenges, we are now making it possible for them to deal with it through national border control. It actually shows the opposite of what the Center Party wants to get out here. It shows that Schengen cooperation actually works even in crisis for individual countries, although there are still major challenges at the external borders and there is a lot of work to be done before you can say that you are ashore with it. But it is within the framework of the border controls now in place in Norway, which can be maintained until mid-November. Then it also seems that the Centre Party is working very hard to present it as if it is a normal situation to have border control in Norway, that's just what we're used to before Schengen. It's also wrong. We haven't had border control against our Nordic neighbours since the 1950s. What the Central Party is now proposing is that we go back to the situation that preceded the Nordic passport union and reintroduce border controls against Sweden and Denmark. I don't think it can be characterized as something step forward, I think it's a step ten years back, actually generations back.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1337	I would like to remind the Central Party that it is the other countries in Europe that have introduced temporary border controls that have primarily led to a reduction in migration flows towards Norway. The representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, confused that the Schengen external border is not functioning, that the Schengen acquis does not work. The Schengen external border is not functioning properly and action is being taken. But the Schengen Agreement works very well. It is precisely on the basis of the Schengen Agreement that the Schengen countries have been able to introduce temporary border controls. There is no Schengen country that has left Schengen cooperation. The question to be asked is: do you want to return to a Europe with border controls between all countries, with the major disadvantages that this entails? Do you have to jump on the solution of the political solution, or do you have to work on the challenges you face, so that you can continue the many benefits of Schengen cooperation – which unfortunately are not an opportunity to spend time from the pulpit, because there are many of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1346	The representative Ellingsen pulled up a picture on July 22nd and that's what happened there. There is reason to remember that there was an ethnic Northman who was behind the attack in Oslo and on Ut Island. It has very little to do with today's case, and both the government, society and etatas have taken on self-criticism that one did not have a good enough security on July 22. I thought dragging it into this debate is a low target. The Central Party has not called for us to resign from either Interpol or the United Nations. On the contrary, the Centre Party is a strong defender of our cooperation, not least in the UN, and strengthen it as an inter-national and internationally important organisation. Schengen is something else. Schengen is the least poor we have, said the case-speaker. Schengen cooperation works well, it was also said. If this is the case that Schengen cooperation works well, then I need an explanation as to why there is a plan to have a supranational defence agency that can outrun nations to guard their own borders. Why should a Schengen cooperation work well? Then you're all right, aren't you? And then there's an extraordinary situation, and that's okay, but the supranational defence agency, the border control that one will establish, it'll be permanent. So one can simply set aside national governments, national parliaments, and override them. This is serious, and it is the most obvious sign that Schengen is simply not working. If you are searching the Internet for Schengen and failure, you will find a lot of lookups – not so many Norwegians, maybe, but you will find a lot in a lot of European languages. So it's not just the center party that claims this. It's claimed in a lot of countries among our European friends, who come from different parties. State Council Anundsen said – I believe – in his previous post that we in Storskog have national border control. Yes, but Storskog is the Schengen external border, and we could say a lot about what happened on Schengen last year – about Russia asking for a confirmation that one would stop those who did not have a Schengen visa, etc. We're not going to drag it into the debate either, but we're going to be sober about what's happening there, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1359	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1362	Today, it is absolutely necessary that ‘Norway should use the possibilities we have under the Schengen Agreement to suspend the agreement temporarily in order to establish full border control’. That was the opinion of the National Governing Board of the Advance Party last autumn – that we should use it to the full. Today, however, it has actually changed to fully defending the Schengen Agreement. And that is the problem in this debate, that the government does not address the problems that the Schengen Agreement has brought about. You can be a member of the agreement, and then we see that it has caused a lot of problems, and how can we make sure that we don't get those problems back? The Progress Party itself has been very clear in its national government with various statements that the Schengen Agreement has major shortcomings, so why this great tribute stone today to a Europe without border control? Because it's wise to have some border control to know who's being transported here and there, and that those who need protection get it, but those who are not going to have it, are being rejected at the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1370	The advantage of such debates when one sits and listens to the posts is that I realize that I am in the right party. And I'm very, very happy that I don't belong to the Progress Party, because it's hard for me to take the posts that have come in this debate, seriously. It's got so many weird statements and a lot of weird statements. One is that the representative of the Elves dragged into the Central Party national meeting. We in the party are fully aware – and also proud of – that they are well-known in a positive way, but it is quite obvious that it is not such that we make country meetings at these parties. Furthermore, when this is the case, there is no daily flight for us; it is something we have been opposed to since the establishment of the Schengen Agreements. We have repeated it at the national meeting that we believe that Norway is going out of Schengen cooperation, and there is one thing that is certain, so the parties on the right often consist of many people who know a lot about just this which is about the EU, the EEA and Schengen. We have a strong will, of course, when it comes to this, and what's kind of nice is to see that the other parties are attracted to the debate with such posts, which on the one hand are something unprofessional, etc. The country meeting that was dragged in, I don't take it very hard, but what I take more seriously is that the representative Ellingsen dropped in on the 22nd of July disaster, which is completely on the side. There is no home in this debate, really. We have one thing that we are thunderingly disunity about. The centre party is standing alone, it's okay – that's all – but what's wrong with us being alone is not that we're going to vote on the proposals we have to step out of the Schengen cooperation now, because that's what we understood in advance. It is obvious that this is going to happen, but what is so sad is that the other parties do not think a little longer than just saying no, but that they are looking at what Norway can do to do – no, we are not going to get out of Schengen, for all that – the least possible bad in that cooperation, and are acting so that one can have national solutions and make sure that one cannot suddenly be denied national border control when we think we need it ourselves, if not one else in Schengen thinks it is necessary. So a constructive approach in the future is what I recommend to the other parties to do, because this is important, there are many who are busy with it around the population, and border control is an important tool that we should not just throw at the boat in the way that the multiples do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1377	Let me first say that it is reassuring to hear that the representative Klinge's root strength in the Central Party extends so far that she is not flung into another party because of a debate on the Schengen cooperation. I think that's good for her – and probably good for the rest of us. I really didn't intend to take the floor again, but the representative Navarsete is guilty of what must appear to be a quite obvious misunderstanding. It is presented as if there is a proposal that there should be a transnational border force capable of overcoming national parliaments. That's not right. In fact, it was part of the Commission's original proposal, but it has been substantially processed since then. The proposal that is now the best – this is still a process, so we do not know what will be the final outcome – is the proposal that Norway has made very clearly in this process: that one should not come into a situation where one should have a supranational border force that can override national priorities, but where one should be clear in the requirements of those countries which do not comply with the border regulation and which do not fulfil the Schengen obligations. Thereafter, they shall be offered measures that the Schengen Agreement can help them to meet those requirements. If they reject that assistance, one could, in effect, decide to suspend this country temporarily and to impose border controls on that country through the Schengen cooperation. There's something quite different than the representative Navarsete gives the impression that she thinks it's true. It may be because the updates haven't come here, but she may also be trying to create an impression of something that isn't real. That's why I thought it was good to mention it from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1388	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1391	I think I'm reasonably up-to-date. The reality of this, even with Norway's proposals, is that if you are to suspend a Schengen country in the middle of Europe, it will have some quite clear consequences. This will in fact mean that a person actually takes border control from that country. I can't understand how to implement Norway's proposals in practice in a good way. It's great that you have self-confidence when it comes to believing that Norway can get through to it. But the transnationality is that a person does not have national control over this. It's a supranational body that decides, it's a supranational body that sees the conditions. It's a supranational body that decides, and the Minister of Justice can't get away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1400	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1414	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1421	Today, the paper deals with the 2015 Annual Report from the Norwegian National Human Rights Institute, which I would like to mention in part as NIM further in my post. The new national human rights institution was created by law of 1 July 2015. The institution is organisationally placed under the Storting, but is otherwise independent. Paragraph 1 of the National Institution Act requires NIM to ‘promote and protect human rights in line with the Basic Law, the Human Rights Act and other legislation, international treaties and international law’. NIM thus has an important function in our democratic society. According to Section 11 of the Act, NIM shall send an annual notice to the Stortinget on its activities and the development of the human rights situation in Norway. That is the message we are currently processing. The institution has recently been created, so the annual report is not long. I would like to point out that the message is rich anyway. It gives a good picture of the tasks the institution will work with. NIM shall elucidate human rights issues in Norway, operate holistic surveillance of all human rights and provide advice to authorities and others. There is a wide range of issues the institution will issue and provide professional advice and input on. These include international obligations in the field of asylum and refugee law, drug care, ethnic discrimination, the situation of indigenous peoples, national minorities, psychiatric treatment practices, religious freedom and trafficking in human beings. In particular, I would like to point out the useful and timely discussion of isolation in prison, which was a main theme of the annual report. This is an important matter to discuss. The distribution and evaluation done by the Norwegian National Human Rights Institute is a sign that the institution can make a useful contribution to the societal debate as a knowledge-based adviser and pushes towards national authorities. I therefore found it appropriate to pay tribute to the institution for the work that has been done so far. I would like to stress that the Committee looks forward to the further work of the NIM, as an independent vote and a critical counterweight to the authorities. On behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Credentials, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Credentials, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1438	First, I would like to congratulate the Institute for Human Rights on the first annual report that has come to the Stortinget. I believe that what it shows is that Norway still has a task to get on with human rights. We have come a long way, but there is still more to be done, and Norway still needs to be a country that is going to be the best to meet human rights obligations. I would just like to point out some of the issues that the rapporteur also raised, which the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights points to in this year's report, because there are issues specifically related to the Justice Committee. There are also issues that the Justice Committee has actually been dealing with, both issues that have come from the government and matters that have come as a representative proposal. Glattcell and isolation we have had several debates about in the staging room. There have been slightly different suggestions, but at least there is unanimity in the Stortingen that you will look at this. The working party has also pointed out in proposals what the institution addresses, precisely the design of smooth cells as one of the problem areas. It also points to the conditions for mentally ill people. The government has taken action that has received unanimous agreement from the Stortinget. But it also points to the difficult balances that the judicial system needs to make in order to balance the security of both society and people and the use of coercion in some situations. For the Labour Party, I would like to say that we consider the feedback in this report to be important, and it contains knowledge and assessments that should form the basis for matters relating to the Judicial Committee, especially in the further work of this session.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1451	Like previous speakers, I would like to congratulate the Institute for Human Rights on its first annual report to the Stortinget. It may not be the most comprehensive annual report yet, but it may be a much more comprehensive report in the future, for there are many areas to be addressed in this subject. Now, to the extent that the rapporteur has said what should be said, but I want to make a little addition to it. When such an institution is set up, there are probably some expectations out there among a number of people who experience that, as a state, there is sometimes a failure on the human rights side, that this institution should put its mark on the debate, be a recipient of enquiries, follow up, etc. There's probably some expectations out there, and I think that the institution somehow needs to find a solution to how to deal with it. I understand that you cannot go into all kinds of individual matters, but it is important that you are taken seriously as a citizen when you contact them. I have every belief that the institution will find solutions to that. I just want to stress it. There are some expectations out there, and I hope the institution will also take it seriously and see how to solve it in a practical way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1458	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1472	On 16 April 2014, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted the establishment of the financial support mechanism for external borders and visas, as part of the Internal Security Fund. An agreement has been negotiated between Norway and the EU on additional rules concerning the financial support scheme for external borders and visas as part of the Internal Security Fund. The Agreement has not yet been signed. It is linked to the Commission’s interpretation of the Schengen Association Agreement so that Norway is first obliged to notify the approval of the Schengen acquis. Norway has stated that the legal acts and the supplementary agreement constitute a whole which must be presented to the Stortinget together. The signature will therefore take place once the Storting has consented to the acceptance of these acts. That's what the Stortinge treats today. Finally, I have to make a completely necessary clarification. A letter was received from the Ministry of Justice and Defence for the Presidency of the United Kingdom dated 6 June 2016. There is a clarification of the costs of entering into this cooperation for Norway. The proposition reads as follows: ‘For the period 2014-2020, the border and visa regime is initially EUR 2760 million. euro [[(later reduced by the European Parliament to 2716 million. (EUR)]] In the clarification provided by the Ministry, this cost estimate has been adjusted up to 2,851 million. euro. I do not include the introductory text, but it is the essence of the letter that came, and it had to be notified to Stortinget in such a way according to the regulation of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1486	That is when it is announced and certainly also included in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1489	I'm supposed to be a direct debit card. The weak border controls now being carried out in large parts of the Schengen area have a major impact on Norway. Since we in the Central Party today do not have a plurality on the Stortinget to reintroduce national border control, even if the debate we recently had in the Chamber here, we depend on the best possible control at the Schengen external borders, of course. It is therefore important that the Norwegian Government helps to improve this external border control. I would like to vote in favour of the proposal in this context. At the same time, I would like to emphasise my primary view that Norway should withdraw from the rules on border control in the Schengen Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1494	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1508	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1515	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its smooth examination and cooperation on this matter. Then I will pay tribute to the representatives of the Christian People's Party who have raised the matter. In fact, it concerns the relatively few children, but it is serious to those concerned, their superiors and siblings and to those who are being abused. A natural part of being a child involves testing out your own and the boundaries of others. Some children’s exceedances require correction and, where appropriate, treatment. The main measure is to prevent — develop and deploy good measures early, and build and disseminate skills to prevent this from happening. Psychologists Eva Mørch and Helle Kleive at V27 at Bethany Hospital in Bergen have shown that international figures of prognosis show that as many as 80–90 pst. by children with such behaviour, the behaviour changes following corrections from clear, significant and safe adults setting limits and explaining. Around one-tenth of the children will continue to behave in this way. 20-30 pst. of all abuses against children and young people by other minor children, and about half of those who commit adult assault, committed their first assault in childhood or as a teenager. We also know that some of these themselves have been attacked. These are often children with more complex luggage. They may be traumatised themselves, have other and more concomitant mental illnesses or have a developmental disability. But we also know that treatment helps. International research shows that those who received help had about a quarter of them. 10 percentage points less relapse than a control group. State Council Horne, in her letter to the committee, points out that she takes this seriously. The government has started a review of the treatment measures to be completed in these days. The entire Committee notes that the Government is following up and returning to the Storting in an appropriate manner with the follow-up to the review. It is also agreed that the government should assess whether the hearings should be conducted at the children’s homes. I assume that this will be part of the follow-up that Stortinget has asked for in the committee's comments. When there are so few – and they live around the country, they have a large gap in and often a complex disease picture, age and network variation – it takes time to build up and disseminate sufficient knowledge. In Norway, Competence Centres for Security, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry in the South, and the V27, have been working on the problem for a long time. Some children’s homes have also gained experience in questioning children who have committed an assault. The working party therefore proposes to develop a separate strategy for building up knowledge and providing adequate skills for treatment. We believe that this is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and we believe that existing environments of competence and children's homes must be included in the preparation of this strategy. We agree that it should be a clear objective not to have these children in the same institution as children who have been abused. In some cases, consideration of the need for professional competence and treatment may need to be balanced towards placement, such as: in the case of emergency or very short stays. In addition, being admitted to the same institution does not necessarily mean living together or having a daily routine. Institutions may have several departments, or buildings, so that they do not necessarily have contact with each other even if they are actually incorporated in the same institution. The Council of State points out, inter alia: on the borderline between the responsibilities of child protection and healthcare. Some children, but not all, will need both relief measures. Therefore, the Workers' Party will wait to conclude on how this is to be organised in practice, until there is a case that follows up the decisions we take here today. I refer to the proposal from the Labour Party and the Senterpartiet in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1546	The representative Kari Henriksen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1549	I would also like to pay tribute to the Committee and to the rapporteur for having handled this matter well, and not least to the representative Kjell Ingolf Ruppstad of the Christian People's Party, who once again gives us the opportunity to debate this important issue. As the rapporteur says, it has been a great deal of agreement in the Committee when we have examined this proposal for a representative, and not least the government also shows a strong commitment in this area. An important key is good prevention and early intervention. Young offenders are not always aware that they exceed the limits of others, and therefore it is important that these children be caught as early as possible. This is important in order to prevent the development of children to cross-overs. If you want to know early, it's important that the knowledge about the theme is good for those who have a lot to do with our children at a young age. I am thinking in particular of employees in kindergartens, schools and, not least, health care workers. We have known figures that show the extent and coherence of young attackers and adult attackers. Between 20 and 30 pst. by all offences against children and young people committed by other children or young people. Furthermore, it is estimated that 50 pst. adult offenders committed their first assault in childhood or in their teens. Then it goes without saying that early efforts are important. Many of these attackers also have traumas themselves that they need to get help to treat. The job done at the country's children's home is good, and it is vital to ensure a good quality around both the questioning and follow-up of these children. When I say ‘these children’, I assume that the questioning of young offenders is already being conducted at several of the country’s children’s homes. Among other things, Statens Barnehus in Trondheim has been questioning young attackers for five years and has good experience with this. Children who commit abuse are also children and need individual arrangements. When children’s homes have this unique competence and experience, it is important to build on this. To this end, the Committee would like the government to assess whether any questioning of children under the age of 16 suspected of sexual assault is conducted at the State Children’s House. The representative proposal also addresses another important issue, namely ensuring that children and young people who commit sexual abuse receive help. In the autumn of 2014, the government presented the action plan ‘A good childhood lasts its life’ to combat violence and sexual abuse against children, one of which is to review the treatment provision of victims of violence and young offenders. There is a lot of good work in this field today, both at V27, which is linked to Bethany Hospital in Bergen, and not least through the project of Competence Centres for Security, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry, Department Broset, which will help to raise the competence for the treatment of violence and assault problems among children and young people. Now that the government has commissioned the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress to provide an overview and an assessment of current treatment provision, it will also provide us with a better overview of the state of the country. Because it is important to provide these children with a good treatment and that they receive this offer regardless of where they live in the country. This Decision also establishes the Committee today. With regard to the proposal of own institutions for children and young people who commit sexual abuse, the government party separates teams with the Christian People's Party. Today, the ingesting routines of Buffetat ensure that children who have been sexually assaulted are not placed on the same institutional unit as children who have committed sexual assault. To clarify the procedures even better and to consider measures to prevent such mispositions from taking place, we believe that a better proposal than to build up own institutional units around the country. It is also important that the government looks at the legislation in order to ensure the necessary remedies to prevent children from committing further abuses while living in an institution. Finally, I refer to proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1570	The representative Margunn Ebbesen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1573	Let me start by giving tribute to the proposers, who address an important theme. I think that one of the most important things about this case is that when children commit an assault, they do something that is hard for us adults to understand. That doesn't mean it doesn't happen, but that means that it challenges us to actually take inwards that children are able to do things that they initially shouldn't do. Adults do that, adults do all the stupid things, but understanding that a child can expose another child to violence or sexual assault challenges us. At the same time, some of what we're going to learn in the next generation is that there's a difference between right and wrong. That's how you break a law, you get a consequence. The most important thing we can do is find smart solutions. Smart solutions mean – at least as I see it – that you have to have a variety of different measures, precisely because people are different. People are not alike, people are different in development, in attitudes, in mentality, in skin color and religion, for that matter, but basically it means that no one can be exempted from taking responsibility for what you actually have done, and then you have to find smart solutions. What you do in this proposal is to point out smart solutions, and I also see that the Council of State is clear that you want to move on with what you see is reasonable. If you can save one of these children from committing a new assault or violence, we have done the job, and we can be satisfied with ourselves, we can be happy on behalf of that child. It's hard to get it done, but we're not allowed to do it. I think that even if it challenges us, it's those things that maybe don't seem the biggest in the first place, which are perhaps the most difficult, but also the most important, precisely because it's hard to take inward. But once again, as I said, the proposal is timely. The measures you want to look at further, as the Council of State has told her to follow up, are also good. It's when you sit down and think about the realities of things, no matter how difficult it is, that you find the good solutions. It contributes to Stortinget in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1582	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur and others who have had contributions, for their excellent contributions. As we say many times here, this is a topic that brings together the committee. I'm very happy about that, and I'm glad that we have so much commitment in the field to just helping more children to get the safe growth that we all want. Before I start talking about the matter itself, it's just to stress that now we've made many important decisions in this room, it's done very well, there's a lot of money going on in terms of prevention, getting a better hearing at the children's houses, funds for the police to get better research, etc. It's doing a lot of good. The background to our proposal was enough that we saw that in the case of the prevention side in particular, we did not focus enough on the perpetrators, especially the young perpetrators. I'm going to go into several things that we think made it right and important to promote these proposals. The first thing goes on when we went into the statistics to see who's the perpetrator. I have to make it clear that when we're looking for statistics, it was hard to find, because it's a little too bad, but it's some international, and there's a part in Norway that emphasizes that a lot of the international also seems to be voting in Norway. But according to the studies, one says that somewhere between 20 and 50 pst. sexual assaults are committed by teenage boys. That's a big deal. Then we know that we're talking about children, and then we have to focus on that group. Another important point is that young people who themselves have been sexually traumatized have three times as likely to commit sexual assault on others themselves. That means that it is also extremely important to focus on that group and the attackers, and to have thought through that many of those who commit assaults against others, i.e. children who commit assaults against others, are actually at risk of assault themselves. The third relates to research into adult epidemiologists, which shows that about half carried out their first juvenile assault. At least the total of this underlines to us how important it was to make proposals. That is why I would also like to stress that we were very grateful for the letters of the Council of State. There were many in the committee who stressed that there was a good letter, a clear commitment and a willingness to both look at the problem and do something with it. As the representative of Ebbesen also refers to, and as we refer to in the proposal for a representative, it is one of the points of the action plan that goes right on this, as well as the fact that the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress has launched work to provide an overview of treatment provision. Therefore, I am not going to spend so much more time on frustration that the rest of the committee did not gather on the last of the Christian People's Party's proposals, because I hope and believe that when the work is done further, not least the work we are going to do on the escalation plan to combat violence and abuse against children, and when we have the statistics or see how the treatment offer is today, we have a better basis for decision-making also, hopefully, on the decision that we believe is right and that is inspired by Denmark and Sweden, namely, our own institutions for children who have committed abuse. But I also think it is important to stress, as the representative Henriksen also pointed out, that if treatment is offered to the invaders, there are very many of them who do not commit the abuse again. I would say that is good prevention, and it will also be of great help to those children who have committed abuse. This is why it is at least very important that the Storting go in today to ensure a good offer and a good treatment offer for young offenders. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which are based on the idea that our own institutions should be set up now. But when it seems not to get a majority, I would also like to inform you that we want to vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Right Party and the Progressive Party, which refers far on the way to the work to be done, and at least emphasises that both a good code must be put in place and must secure the necessary housing so that children who have committed an offence can be prevented from committing new abuses when they are at institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1603	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1606	Children and young people who commit abuse are a sensitive and difficult topic that we rarely discuss. I am therefore pleased that the proposers are raising this issue and that there is a great deal of commitment in the Committee on this subject. We know that many young attackers themselves have been assaulted. The earlier the effort is put in, the better the opportunities to limit the consequences of violence and abuse and reverse a negative trend. Children who commit violence and sexual assault need help and treatment in a timely manner. The government sees the need to strengthen the provision of treatment to young offenders and to increase the competence for violence and sexual abuse in various services to provide treatment to vulnerable and young offenders of violence and abuse. This will also be a theme in the plan of escalation against violence and abuse, which we will present until the autumn. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, has carried out, on behalf of the Ministry, a survey of treatment provision for children and young people who are victims of violence and abuse and for young people who are perpetrators of violence and abuse. The screening will be launched on Friday, but I will nevertheless refer to some findings that I have already learned, since this matter is being dealt with here today. The survey shows that treatment provision for young people with disabilities is available in all four health regions, but there are few specialised services. However, many of the treatment units feel that they are not given the treatment they want to receive to this group of children and young people and, above all, call for more competence. NKVTS recommends, inter alia: increasing the competence of the BUP in the treatment of young offenders. Furthermore, they recommend the assessment of units with special competencies anchored in the specialist health service of all regional health establishments. The need to build on the competence of young people in other sectors, such as care, school and justice, is also emphasised. This shows that we have a way to go. The minority calls on the government to assess measures to prevent offenders and offenders from being placed in the same institution. Today, such procedures exist in the field of child protection. Buffetate has ingesting procedures that help the ingesting units to avoid placing children who have been sexually assaulted in the same institution as children who have committed sexual assault. This applies in both ordinary and emergency positions. However, if there should be mispositions, Bufetat has procedures to deal with this. Furthermore, the minority calls on the government to ensure its own institutions for children and young people who commit sexual abuse. I would like to refer again to the investigation by the NKVTS, because together with the Minister of Health and Care, I will now carefully review the recommendations of the NKVTS and come back to Stortinget with suggestions on how we can follow up the proposals to improve treatment provision for young offenders, in the forthcoming escalation plan. The government will also give NKVTS the task of providing an overview of the available treatment services and how they are organised in the other Nordic countries, as well as the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. In the light of the overview and monitoring already carried out, we will ask the NKVTS to provide a more detailed assessment of how the treatment provision of this group should be organised. In the context of the revised national budget, the Government has also proposed to redeploy funds for such an additional task to the NKVTS. The proposers also ask the government to assess whether hearings of children and young people under the age of 16 suspected of sexual assault are to be conducted at the State Children’s Home. Many argue that children’s homes can play an important role both in the questioning situation and in the follow-up of young offenders. Several children’s homes already have competence in and experience of interrogation and follow-up of this group of young offenders. However, there is a need to further explore the role of children’s homes in the case of young offenders, and not least what resource needs will be required if children’s homes are to be assigned new tasks in this field. Today’s capacity situation at most children’s homes is already demanding, as the Committee is aware. In conclusion, I would like to thank the representatives who have raised this issue about young attackers. Early help and treatment are essential to prevent new abuses. I will now, together with the Minister of Health, follow up the mapping we have received from the NKVTS, and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a follow-up to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1633	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1636	We've had several cases in the Judicial Committee on Children and Violence. Among other things, we have had a case earlier today that concerns professional secrecy, and we have also had the report in the Daily Newspaper on Shadow Children, with which the Council of State is probably familiar. These cases show that there is a need for good coordination and coordination. What the Council of State was up to now, I think, is very positive, that we are already addressing this issue in the action plan that is being drawn up. What I think may be important in such an action plan, and I want to hear what the Council of State is thinking about, is precisely: what does the Council of State think should be in such an action plan to ensure coordination? Is it often the case that there is a gap between the various services that are to be involved and that contribute to both the treatment and care of these children? What does the Council of State think can be included in the action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1643	I thank you for the question. There are several people who have brought the NOVA report that came today. It is worrying, and we see that particularly serious violence against children does not go down. It is, as the representative Ropstad was also involved, that a lot of good decisions were made in this room on this particular field, and I am very pleased that we have been given the task of creating an escalating plan in the field of violence. Then it is also important to stress that the government has a strategy against violence against children, «Good childhood lasts life». It is based on the strategy of the previous government, with concrete measures, and we are working consistently with this theme. If we are to succeed in reducing and preferably abolishing – I kept saying – violence to which children are subjected, we must dry up to believe it, we must see it, and we must act. But it requires an effort from all the departments, from the directorate and from the services out in the municipalities, and we have a great focus on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1654	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report. It is always fun to get some leaks from reports to come, and therefore I would like to stress that I think it sounds very good, the way the Council of State chooses to meet such a report. If the investigation carried out by the NKVTS reveals such weaknesses as the Council of State points out, it is important that we offensively meet them to try to find good solutions, so I am pleased. My question really went more to the institutions. As we refer to in the proposal for a representative, both Denmark and Sweden have a slightly different type of treatment for young offenders, and in Sweden they have, among other things. own institutions. The council was a little bit inside, but I should have heard a little more. The Council of State referred to an investigation where one was to look at several countries, but is there an investigation that will take a long time? Is there anything that might come into the plan of escalation that has been announced for the harvest, or will it be too short? What does the Council of State think of that kind of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1661	It's important, as I also mentioned in my post, and which goes specifically to child protection institutions, that we have a good setup there. With regard to the monitoring to which NKVTS refers, they recommend assessing a more intensive therapeutic offer to young people at high risk of committing sexual assault. Now we have given an additional mandate to the NKVTS to look at the other countries as well. It is because if the escalating plan is delivered to Stortinget and there is a debate about it for the autumn, there is a plan of escalation that will somehow be alive, and that will also be followed up for several years, but I think that it is already going to start now and give them the assignment, will provide us with a basis for further work on this plan. So if there will be entirely concrete proposals in the escalation plan, I don't think I can promise, but at least I can promise that it will be the topic concerned, and the mapping that is now being carried out will be followed up in the escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1666	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1682	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change be made of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of the parties and six lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1689	The regional notification comes as a result of a clear order from Stortinget to have three elected levels. On the basis of a proposal from the Left, Stortinget decided that the tasks of a regionally elected level should be reviewed. I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. The regional communication aims to facilitate a positive development of society across the country, based on regional advantage. The reform shall contribute to clarifying the division of responsibilities and strengthening local democracy. In the summer of 2015, the county councils were invited to take a neighboring talk. The majority of the Committee considers that it is natural to carry out a community reform and regional reform at the same time and that the new regions enter into force on 1 January 2022. By 1 December of this year, the county councils will have to decide who they may want to join, and in that process the municipalities should also take part. The majority adopts a new regional structure, with a background in local processes, in spring 2017. In the new regionally elected level, the role of society is strengthened. The regions will retain most of the tasks they already have today and will be given new ones. The Committee considers that regional planning is a central instrument for the exercise of the societal development role and that these plans must be based on the activities of regional bodies, on municipal planning and on regional planning and on state planning and activities. This will also lead to better coordination and more effective planning. The majority of the Committee considers that the regional state and the elected regions need to play more on the ground and that the regional state needs to be assessed in the light of the regional reform. The majority clarifies the need for the responsibilities and obligations of regional government bodies to participate in the planning processes. The majority also believe that the State should be initially responsible for supervision, control and preparedness and a few guidance tasks. Tasks that facilitate the use of political judgement shall, as a general rule, be transferred to the regionally elected level. I also point out that the new regions must work strategically with the municipalities, especially in the press areas, to ensure climate-friendly and socio-economic development solutions. It is therefore necessary to add parts of the same road administration to the regions. The majority support the Communication’s proposal that the new elected regions be given responsibility for the design and follow-up of regional tasks to national research, innovation and industrial development actors. Furthermore, the majority also supports the possibility of adding tasks within Innovation Norway to the regions. The majority believe that some of the tasks can be moved from the IMFI to a regionally elected level. These are tasks the county councils have not had before. The left is pleased that the government, in cooperation with the Left, will draw up a plan for the relocation of new and existing state jobs. This should be ready before New Year's. We are also pleased that we will have a more holistic development of society in a number of sectors – such as knowledge, economic development, transport, climate, environment, culture and, above all, spatial planning. Here one will see many synergies with the old, structural counties, where one has a much greater opportunity to see a whole across the old county boundaries. The left considers that we must have a regional structure that is balanced, where we get a balance in the country that we do not have with today's 19 county municipalities. That is why we agree that it is important to achieve about ten regions. Structure is important to have in place in this particular reform, because it is driving and will help balance developments across the country. The balancing power has always been the key to the Left’s desire and clear drive to draw a new regional map in Norway. Then it's important to point out that we have to get this harmonised against the 32 governmental organizations, and that's also pointed out in the message. Because there's no doubt that there's only going to be more bureaucracy and less efficiency than if we had this coordinated with the new regions. Therefore, I believe that this is a long step forward in relation to what was tried in 2007-2008. We are today at a landmark where we succeed in many ways with something that has been tried before, but the left is very pleased that we have now in many ways passed that marker and are in the process of a new era. I would think that this will balance and not least create growth and opportunities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1723	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1726	Thank you for the introduction. The regional notification comes as a result of a clear order from Stortinget, with which the representative Skkelstad started, and that is correct. The Committee also wrote in its observations that: ‘The notification comes as a result of Storting’s treatment of Document 8:26 S [[2013-2014]] It was kind of the order from Stortinget that time. Does the representative of Skkelstad think that the government has delivered well enough in the message that has come to give more tasks to a new regional level?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1740	Thank you for that. I have been clear on this before: I think it was defective, the government came along. That is why we have also put in several tasks, not least that of joint road administration, as many, not least through the consultation rounds, were eager to go to the regions. It has also been important to be clearer when it comes to re-growthing the County as supervision and control, and not least as an emergency authority in addition to being the State’s extended arm. But we've also been clear that this is phase 1. We have also placed an order to look at the Directorates – which of the kinds of tasks is possible to move out to a popular level. This is in many ways what was not clear for approx. two periods ago. Then, together with the government, we have been able to complete several tasks for the regions and restructure Norway, and also to create a new structure is important to make Norway work, not least the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1749	A few years ago, the Left promoted a very good proposal for a representative to relocate at least 1000 State jobs from Oslo, and this was proposed by the Left in the Committee's position. Unfortunately, this proposal ran into the sand. It was not least that the Left did not promote the proposal in the Chamber and that they did not vote in favour of other similar proposals. This too has been launched by the Left as a victory they have given the government – it says about new investigations and better dissemination, but there is nothing concrete about it. The question is: where does concrete follow-up to the proposal take place – at least in the form of an investigation? Does the Left believe that they have had an impact on the better dissemination of state jobs in their cooperation with the current government? Will the Left vote in favour of the proposal by the Central Party, which we have promoted in this matter, which is extremely similar to the one that the Left itself has promoted a year ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1754	I could, of course, have used my reply to tell you what the Center Party did not get through eight years in government. I have no concerns about believing that they tried. But I'd rather focus on what Heidi Greni asked. We put in place an income system with the government pointing forward. We've also put ourselves in place to sit down and make a plan. What the Storting decided was a strategy for emigration, but a plan goes much further. We're also clear, as I said in my post on the pulpit, that we want such a plan, which will be on the table around Christmastime.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1761	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1764	The Labour Party believes that we should have strong regions under direct popular governance. The reason for this is that we need a popular level that can take regional leadership in cooperation with municipalities, businesses and government. We believe that the regions should have a clearly defined responsibility and authority for the tasks and sectors that are important for regional development. We also believe that the regions should have a clearly defined responsibility for the coordination of these tasks, which is at the heart of the activities of municipalities and countries in the regions. In order to achieve the objective of strong regions, the Labour Party wants to put more tasks under regional governance. We believe that the various regional organisations of the state should be reviewed with a view to better coordination with a regionally elected level. We will also transfer government tasks that require regional political judgement to regional levels. That is why the Labour Party in the position we are dealing with here today has several proposals for new tasks that can be added to the regionally elected level, and we believe that the Storting should state that the regional level should retain their current tasks in the areas of dental, public transport and secondary education. The tasks of municipalities and county councils must be seen in the context of the process currently under way of municipal reform and regional reform. When the regional reform message was presented, it was criticised for thin content — not unlike the criticism the government received when it presented the task message to the municipalities. We in the Workers' Party were clear when the message was presented that we would contribute to filling the regional reform with content, so that the discussion was wider than just structure. In the course of our work on the Storting communication, we realized that the structural discussion was in many ways more important to the majority than the discussion of tasks. We in the Workers' Party were ready to form a majority for what we thought was a majority in terms of tasks. But unfortunately, we see that the Left and Christian People's Party now sends the ball back to the government and in many ways rely more on an expert selection than on its own party program. That's too bad. We had the problems on the fork. We had the opportunity to strengthen the regional level, but now you give that opportunity, or you choose not to use it here today. We're going to have another expert committee to be set up in the spring of 2017. In reality, then, it will be the fourth consecutive year of the Grand Duchy to discuss tasks at the regionally elected level. So the government has spent a year on a big message that the majority now send back in many ways with notice that the government has done too bad a job: you have to find out more. You need another expert selection. Of course, the majority had a different option, namely to vote in favour of the concrete proposals that lie here today from the minority, but that is unlikely to happen. It's not just the Working Party that's disappointed. KS has been out with press releases and printers: ‘Overall, the attitude of the Municipal Committee on Regional Reform does not provide the aid for the ongoing regional processes that we would like to see.’ Nor does the proposal for an expert committee fall into very good soil at KS, they point out that there is no absence of investigations that have been the problem when discussing the assignment of tasks from the state to the elected regions. The problem has been the absence of political will — or perhaps the ability — to implement it, among others. in the case of management tasks in the environment and agriculture of the regional country. The KS strongly doubt that a selection of experts is able to do something about this. At the hearing, it was also quite rightly pointed out that if the lot programmes of the various parties were to be taken into account, there is actually a majority in the Chamber for specific transfers of tasks to the regional level. We in the Workers' Party have laid the foundations of our national meetings. Unfortunately, these are certainly being voted down today, because the other parties are choosing differently. I assume that the parties concerned will explain this later in the debate. The processing of this message by the majority has unfortunately ended up as an exercise in progress but without hope in many ways. It is a pity for the debate that is now going on in the regions that they are not being helped by getting some clear feedback on what tasks they can expect. For the sake of order, I take up the proposals that the Labour Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1795	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås then brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1801	It would have been tempting to ask the representative Lauvås if he agreed with me that it is better to get quite a bit in a regional message in one year, than to get little and nothing in eight years in government, but I will not ask that question. I want to ask the representative Lauvås a question about the distribution of power between the regional level and the municipalities. In all years there has been a broad consensus that, although municipalities and today's county councils have different tasks and different divisions, the level of equality is purely administrative. We have not made the county municipalities over the municipalities. In today's setting, the Workers' Party is taking a step in that direction, when it is said that what is beauty, which is today distributed by the County, is to be subject to party political control in the new regions before the money is distributed to the municipalities. This means that, if this became a majority, the new regions become an over-municipality of Norwegian municipalities. Does the Labour Party representative agree that there is a dramatic and unfortunate breakdown in the balance of power between elected levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1808	No, I'm not really, and I also think that the representative Jensen is going a bit far. We are convinced that it is wise that what requires political judgement is added to those who have a political responsibility and can be responsible for it in elections, which the County does not. So I don't think it would be so wrong if we were to go a long way in giving what is actually a political judgement to the elected political bodies, which then have to be responsible for the decisions they are making in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1813	I forgot something instead. Of course, I recommend the proposals for decisions by the majority, which I did not do instead. I notice that the representative Lauvås believes that the structure – the task itself – is not essential. I think it is good that the Workers' Party has gradually come to you that they think that the regional level is important, and not least that it is also filled in with tasks. I sat yesterday and saw through what was outsourced for the eight years his party, with more, crashed. It was hardly anything. There were, of course, some highways that were reclassified to county roads, without any means being followed up. We can't have been at the same hearing, the representative Lauvås and I. Most of the country's county rapporteurs and likes said that structure was very important. Does not the representative of Lauvås agree that structure is important in order to put this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1822	Of course, the structure is important. The Communication also states that this should be seen as housing and labour market regions, i.e. looking in context and not breaking up what currently serves as one housing and labour market region. We were probably at the same hearing, the representative of Skkelstad and I, but we might have had different ears to hear from. There were probably some, quite rightly, who said that structure is the most important, but the feedback is probably that there is no need to go into the same trap that you might have done partly in the area of municipal reform, where you had to change the map first, without pointing out a little more specifically what the new structure is going to do. It's true that structure is important, but structure is part of it. Today, the representative, Mr Skelstad and Mr Left, have the opportunity to vote for a number of good proposals that will give a little more of the regional debate to be held out there, so that good solutions can be found and that regional reform can be finally achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1831	It's so interesting that we're aware that the ears are growing the older we get, but the selective hearing may be slightly different between me and Lauvås. I also think it is interesting that the representative of Lauvås believes that there is no reason to make an assessment around the state directorates – it is just to move out. It's a little surprising to me. I think we have to have a thorough process. But I could imagine asking if Lauvås believes that moving out parts of the same road administration and some of it under IMDi, etc., is less than what his government has moved out. Is it less than what his government has moved out, given the grips we're doing on the County and the other one that's in the message, that's on today's map? Is it so little that there is nothing, according to what Mr Lauvås thinks?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1838	The proposals that lie here, on the co-administration of the county road network, road administration, etc., and this with integration and education, are not at all wrong. I'm recording here that you want to go eight, ten, twelve years back. Now I had faith that we could also try to look forward. Everybody's been trying to move. Even though the ears grow, it's possible to move forward. There have been a lot of investigations – that was the representative himself. Probably somewhere in this house, there's kilos of documents and investigations on how to solve moving tasks out to the counties, out to the new regions. It's really just using a lot of what's lying there from before, and then you wouldn't have had to wait a whole year to get an expert selection to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1845	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1848	The NRK's website before the weekend could be read that now Eastfold was losing its highest peak, which lies in Rømskog, because we were going to have regions. So you can take it wrong. The highest peak in Eastfold will continue to lie in Rømskog, and the highest peak in Eastfold will remain in Eastfold. What we're talking about here are administrative levels, and that's something quite different than dividing into states. We're talking about county councils, an intermediate level that my party has been concerned about that we're going to wind up. We know that there's no majority to get to a liquidation of this middle level, but we can rejoice that there will be fewer of them. It'll be about ten. And it's important that these three elected levels have a customized task content that makes them functional to the inhabitants they're actually supposed to serve. The Communication proposes changes both in the regional structure and in the instruments and tasks of the regions. And it is clear that this change, and the consequences of a regional breakdown of about ten, will also have consequences for the interaction between municipalities – today's municipalities, larger municipalities – regions and the state. In the border regions between these new regions, there may be different opinions on where to draw regional borders, and it is so important that municipalities engage in this. However, it is crucial that there are housing and working areas that are taken into account and that there are no divisions and distinctions. The very starter came after an award-winning representative proposal from the Left, who got a majority in Stortinget, and the start of a neighboring talk started already in the autumn of 2015. All the current county councils are doing it. They have started discussions on aggregation options. In this respect, there has also been an important process of maturation out there to assess and clarify whether it is appropriate and appropriate to join the neighbouring countries. That process will now run until 1 December of this year, and then we're going to hope that we can actually make these decisions locally and deal with about ten regions. These discussions are starting, they've already started. The next step is to discuss and clarify what will be the content of the regions of the future. Today’s contents in county municipalities will also be a major part of the region’s set of tasks. In addition, it is proposed that the government transfer tasks from both the statesmen and from the regional state to the new regions. So it's going to show how big these regions are going to be, and how the structure is going to be. I hear that both in the text and in the debate here today the opposition is not satisfied with the tasks added to the region. Then it is worth remembering that both the government and the Stortinget have further moved new tasks to the regional level. I see that some parties point out that you just send the problems back to an expert committee. To put it this way, it's wise to send this back to an expert committee. It is also wise to establish regions before moving tasks out of the regional state. And it's wise that it's done by an expert selection, and not by the government itself, because it's been red-green party colleagues trying on for the past eight years, and to use my east fold goal: it got bad little. It became the same number of county municipalities – that is, no reduction. Getting some outsiders to look at the breakdown of the regions when they're established is good. Then you can also evaluate the different breakdowns of the regional government and let someone on the outside see the timeliness and assess how the problems can be distributed and decentralised. So even though we couldn't plan to be the level ahead, this becomes a decentralisation model where jobs can be established and tasks can be solved more closely where the inhabitants live, and in cooperation with several actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1863	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1866	That the Right Party and the Advance Party would not have regions and not three levels is an honest thing, and that's fine, but now we're here. Why does the representative Schou think that the number is much more important than the content, i.e. that the number of regions should be a much more important issue than the content of these new regions? What does the representative Schou think this committee of experts is going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1871	I see at least that the previous government tried, was to solve it itself without any things happening. You couldn't move tasks out. Some worn-out county roads were moved to a county level, and otherwise there were some protected species. Both Lauvås and I have good experience from the Eastfold County Municipality and know that it was just so bad little move of tasks. So I think it would be wise to put in place the organisational division and not to extract tasks without having them in place, as the representative of Lauvås calls for. It's important that we also fill regions with content. We have over 30 different regional state actors with different types of geography. The previous government could also have taken care of it. You didn't. You probably didn't get a majority in the government of which you were a part, but I think it's wise to put in place structure and organization, so that further move more decentralisedly into the districts tasks of the regional state. That's what you put up with an expert selection of non-government actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1879	In the Address Paper on 9 April this year we find the following opinion from the Prime Minister: «Regional reform is not our project. It's something we've put forward because the Left, the KrF and the rest of the big stuff have asked us to do it. The local reform, on the other hand, is on its own – and is not something I need to give priority to today”. The rails on which the municipal reform is currently taking place do not lead to much reform, as long as the government has not intended to review the municipal decisions by means of coercion. My question is: how has the Prime Minister's statement on regional reform affected the matter we are dealing with here today? Is there a lack of enthusiasm from the elected regional level that has resulted in such a thin message, or is it that what should be a task reform is reflected in proposals for the closure of half of the county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1889	Now I understand that the representative Greni will keep the structure of today and the number of county municipalities and will not make any changes to the tasks. On the other hand, we realize that we are in a minority government, and we also see that it is possible to move tasks closer to where citizens live, and into the districts. It is alarming if Greni is not concerned about it, because the possibility of setting up fewer county municipalities, i.e. regions, to some extent also makes it possible to increase the level of government that is more robust to accept tasks from the regional state, as we do with the same road administration, which has been requested by the central party politicians in the county municipalities, with my experience from many years in the county municipality. This provides opportunities both to strengthen jobs in the districts and to make decisions closer to where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1894	Regional reform is not the heart of the Right Party and the Advance Party. That's something they've been forced to do by the majority on the Biggest. Then there is a need to know more from Stortinget's side. When the representative Schou says that if you get larger regions, you can get more big, heavy tasks, which can prove that you refurbish all of Norway, the question is: What other tasks than those now put on the table, which are 14 such investigation proposals with things that don't exactly involve people so much, are going into this regional reform? Are there any other major tasks that the representative and the right can see for themselves to be added to such a level, if the regions become large enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1899	It's an important matter for the Right to move tasks closer where people live. It's possible that people don't go on demonstration trains for a county municipality. I also see that this is not the most realistic. But what I think people are concerned about is that you create jobs even more decentralised. This is precisely an opportunity for regional reform. Both the road administration, moving tasks from the State, the IMF, all the tasks that are currently in the county municipalities, will be part of the regional reform. It's not that the Right is forced to do this. We've been in on it. We've adopted it. We've decided that, and then we're going in to make sure that the tasks that are being carried out in a regional reform are actually tasks that can easily be solved at regional level. It is wise that it is an expert committee that goes through the regional state and looks at the possibilities, unlike Andersen's party when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1904	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1907	Thanks to the case spokesman André N. Skelstad to present the case in an orderly manner. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the case-speakers and Mr Sigbjørn Tuskedal of the Christian People's Party with a great deal of success in making it a regional reform. This is a matter that the Christian People's Party and the Left, quite rightly pointed out, has engaged themselves in and got the Right and the Advance Party to join in and present in an enthusiastic manner to the Storing today. Actually, it should only be missing when you're going to have three levels in Norway, that one might think of making changes in the breakdowns that have been equal to over 100 years. The only difference that has happened is that Bergen entered Hordaland in the 1970s. It might not have been that impressive all the time Bergen was in Hordaland. So we later make a decision on the aggregation of the North and South Commons, but apart from that, this division has been pretty similar for many years. It's quite right that the Progress Party's position is that we had made it with two levels. We don't hide it, but when we don't have multiples in Stortinget, we find good solutions with our collaboration party. Regional reform has already tried, and I find it interesting that a party that has tried before and has not succeeded either in moving tasks or in setting up a new structure clearly forgets its own efforts. But I should rather choose to look forward than see too much backwards. I think there are two factors that make it more likely to succeed this time. The only thing is that the Storting is clearer both on measures of numbers and on tasks and process that will give this process more speed than the previous one had. The second is that I feel, and that's what we saw in our hearing, that the county councils themselves are much more motivated and committed to happiness this time. There has been a great ageing in the county councils, which also provides a basis for us to have a different structure in place. What we're saying is that we're looking at about ten regions, a half of today's 19 county municipalities. This means that there is a great chance that we can have a more effective organisation of Norway with fewer municipalities. When we first have county municipalities, the Progress Party is also pleased that we are getting a more efficient organisation with less bureaucracy and more money for services, road construction and things that the inhabitants benefit from. I also want to pink the county councils that run here. Later today we will deal with the merger of the North and South Tribe teams, and I would like to congratulate the two counties on being first out there and doing a good job together. In my home region of the West, it's a long way in the process. All the counties who treat this. At all meetings that are to be held this year, agreements of intent and treatment shall take place in Sogn and Fjordane, Rogaland and Hordaland. It is suggested that they will take final decisions in December. So I hope that the department will find good solutions with the county councils even if the deadline is formulated on 1 December, and find smooth ways to deal with this as the county councils see fit. The progress of the message seems to be good. That we suggest that we should clean up the way the state organizes itself in the wake of this, is good. It's not that everything should be evaluated further. Some tasks seem to me to indicate that they are to be moved, especially from the State, both within the area and within agriculture. Within agriculture, we shall have an experiment that gives an even greater authority to a region, which is becoming exciting. While road administration is going to be a great pleasure for many state politicians to move to the regions, so that those who work out are the same as paying for the roads, which can be very useful. But we say one more thing. We want to move down even more tasks when the new regions are in place, and then put down an expert selection. I think it's strange that it's ridiculed by the Workers' Party that both a move today and a direction that we want to go further, and that we want to use expertise to see it from the outside, that it's not just the departments that have to say what they can give, but that there's someone to point out what can be moved. I had hoped that several parties had supported that thinking. Finally, I would also like to stress that it is important for us to stress that the regions should not become an over-municipality when it comes to discretionary means or land policy, so that the municipalities are planning authority further. Regions should not assume their responsibilities as actors in those fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1936	The Progress Party has been called the People's Vote Party, and the Progress Party has programmed that referendums should be used in many more cases in the municipal sector. In the Municipal Reform case, it has been the opposite. The chairperson of the Committee, Mr Njåstad, has stated that the merger is too difficult for people to decide on and warn against referendums. Does the Progress Party continue to believe that referendums are an appropriate way of giving citizens influence in deciding on local issues that are important to them? I have noticed that local advance party politicians have criticized the fact that the inhabitants have not been involved in the merger of the Trondelags. Should the county councils that are now discussing the merger hear their citizens before making the final decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1943	It's interesting how busy the Center Party is of the Progress Party's programs. I then recommend that a student study carefully the debate at the national meeting in 2013 to design the programme. The essence of the debate on the municipal reform was whether there are referendums to decide on the municipal reform, or whether the Stortinget actually has a responsibility to organise Norway in the most effective way possible, i.e. to determine what things should look like. So it should be well known to everyone that even though we're a party occupied with referendums, we're also busy organizing Norway smart, and that was the essence of our debate in 2013. The question of whether referendums are to be conducted by the different county councils, the different county councils and the party groups themselves decide. When we look at the ups and downs around referendums, there is no basis to believe that people will stream and give their views on how the county council should be organised. So I think the county council can handle this in a wise way itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1950	In my home municipality on Monday, there was almost 70 pst. the opening-up of the referendum, so it is reasonably different around. But then my question is about volunteering, because it says here that there will be about ten regions. Some try to spread a rumor around that now you have to hurry to join the neighborhood, if not coercion. Can the representative say a little bit about how one thinks about the further process? Is it that now we're going to get good processes between neighboring states, that they themselves need to figure out how they want this, and we're going to respect the decisions, or is there also going to come up here an official and draw maps afterwards, and then the work they're doing is really pretty wasted?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1955	The work of looking at its own organisation has in any case never been wasted. It is useful that both municipalities and municipalities constantly assess whether it is possible to get even better services from getting a larger professional environment and seeing things more in context. When it comes to this process, statesmen should not have a role – if they were meant to be with officials – but the process is quite identical to the community reform. The county councils are given a deadline, and then the government will sum up what they get, and present to the Storting a proposition next spring. Then it will be up to the Stortinget to handle it further and look at it in the light of the goal of the Stortinget about ten regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1961	For those of us who want a regional reform and want to move really big tasks from the state to the states and not strip the county councils of the big, heavy and important tasks they have today, it is possible to think about what you want with such a reform. But it is more difficult to understand what the Progress Party really wants with such a reform, when one does not want to shift any significant, heavy tasks that could justify such a reform to the new level of the region. I heard the representative Njåstad talking about the states being so enthusiastic. At the hearing in the Committee, however, there were, inter alia: The Western states are very clear that they said yes, we can be ready for this, but then the problems have to be on the table. We can't drive and draw a new map and merge for nothing, or for the little things that are on the table today. Does Njåstad understand that it is correct to do such processes out of so little task move?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1968	We were certainly at the same hearing, but I experienced the Western states as very forward-looking, and that they wanted to do this. It's no secret that a lot of this discussion in the past has been because the county councils have said, give us tasks first, and we can look at the structure afterwards. But the government's department has thought otherwise: first let's see how big they are, then we can consider moving a task. This is where I thought the Greatness today finds a wise approach. One is clear on some tasks as a move, and then one says about ten. Then you say that you should have an independent expert selection as well as moving additional tasks. Then I believe the Storting in a wise meeting to meet both of us, so that we can do this in a proper way. I feel that the county councils are now taking this opportunity, and that we are getting this regional reform in place because of it. The way Size puts her up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1975	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1978	Today, we have an important and historic case – historical for our districts, for our cities, for our regions and for our parts of the country. As early as 2004, the District Commission pointed to replacing today’s counties with stronger and fewer regions. It was wise to be able to pursue an effective district policy. That's why we're very happy that this has now come into place. It is a principle of power distribution that we are looking at, and therefore this is a far-reaching reform that will work for many decades – I think. For the Christian People's Party, three elected levels were programmed, so it was important to look at it when we went into cooperation with the government. The counties have a breakdown from the 1800s, based on completely different transport and settlement structures. It has been a long way to go before we now handle this message that seems to be operationalising this case. In the Christian People's Party we see this as a victory. We are pleased with the Left's proposal, and we thank the government parties who have helped to get this in place. State Council Sanner has done what is possible at this point, far on the way, in order to achieve a good reform. After all, a good reform is not as short as a pinch of fingers, it will last for a long time, and this is the kind of reform that is far-reaching process-based. It is a democratic reform, and in the Christian People's Party we have discussed this with about ten. In earlier periods of the party, we've been all the way down to seven to nine regions, some have been talking about five parts of the country. But we're happy with what's inside today's case. So we know that there has been an approach to this reform in the past, but there was very little result. Ideally for the Christian People's Party, this reform should come first and then the community reform. But we've been dealing with what's possible and what we've done in the cooperation agreement. We are very pleased that there will now be parallel runs between municipal reform and regional reform. So in this reform structure is very important. It's kind of going to be a framework for other government divisions, so talking down the meaning of structure is going to be completely wrong. But we agree that tasks are very important. This shall not be a talking body; this shall be a service provider body serving the regions optimally and in a new way. So it's that the societal development role is important. In my party, proximity is central to political thinking. Power shall be placed at the lowest appropriate level and the analysis now shows that it is appropriate for something to be at regional level. There are issues that concern a larger area than the municipalities, even after the municipal reform. At the same time, there are issues that require decisions that are more differentiated than we can achieve at national level. The new regions need to make room to do what is best for their territory, and the advantages are different in the west and in the north, in terms of value creation, natural resources, cultural differences, etc. There are now indications that the liability portfolio is growing more than the county municipalities currently have. The lead is in the message and in the setting, when we end up with ten regions. The Naboprates are in progress, and we hope that this will provide a basis for it to end up at about ten. Then we realize that there are special challenges in some parts of the country. With regard to the county office, they shall be left with more pure supervisory and guidance tasks and decisions requiring political judgement shall be transferred to the chosen level. This must also be systematically reviewed, so that the regional state is given equivalent reform and we are cleared up in the borders between regional and local authorities. This is therefore a democratic reform, and we believe that we must look at and find appropriate and legitimate sizes. We haven't taken a position on the population in the regions or geographical divisions, but the planning tools and the investigation to take place need to take a look at these things. There is too much reform that we can make important decisions about tasks here and now, even if we have them in our programme. That's why we're putting a lot of expectations into the expert committee and looking forward to that result.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1995	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e1998	Exercising governance and policy discretionary judgements must be transferred to the popularly elected regional level. Central tasks for the regional level will be higher education, regional higher education and research, innovation and industrial development, transport, culture, health, environment and agriculture tasks, as well as cross-sectoral and municipal planning. I expect the representative Tuskedal to recognize this, because that's what's in his party program. At least that's what was on the online version. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Tuskedal, why does the representative, Mr Tuskedal, not want to make the winner bigger today by voting in favour of his party in his own party programme? Today he has the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2007	That's a good question. I can draw your attention to the fact that you forgot a part of the listing. In fact, there are more things that are now being transferred to the regional level that you could have included, which means that the new regions will get a lot bigger portfolio than today's county municipalities. What makes us not to go into concrete detail and say that now we have to do that and that is that this reform is too big. This will have such an impact at County, and perhaps at directorates and state divisions, that we want a professionalism behind us. We will have knowledge of the consequences and carefully evaluate the individual points you mentioned. I am very satisfied – I understand that the Workers' Party and others are still holding on to the same points – that there is only a quality assurance of the large number of people already present. The selection of experts will notice this carefully, they'll come back to it, and it'll be made concrete using the bulk of the population. I expect the Workers' Party to stand by its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2016	In the treatment of the mission message by the Storting a year ago, the Christian People's Party, together with the cooperation parties, underlined: ‘The tasks of a new regionally elected level shall be reviewed and proposals presented to the Stortinget in a Green Paper in spring 2016.’ The lots then list some of the tasks that can be transferred to the regional level. Now the big message is here, but without tasks that you said yourself was central to the review. On the contrary, the removal of a main task such as dental health has removed tasks from the regional level. It is the structure of ten county municipalities that is the central element of this Communication. Does the Christian People’s Party believe that the government has responded to the order requested a year ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2028	As for the message that came, in the Christian People's Party, on the same line as the Left, we thought it was a little thin. That is why, in this work, we have now cooperated and got a good deal of new point that I think the Central Party must also be satisfied with, because it will lead to more power out to the regions and local government. That's why dental health is an important point for us, and that's what we've made in the message -- it's a separate remark about what the Christian People's Party believes that dental health works well at regional level, as it is today with the county municipalities, and we're asking that it be evaluated further. It's a note that we stand for and have always meant, and that our cooperation parties understand us, even if they disagree. This is how it relates the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2033	I want to follow up a little bit of what Mr. Greni raised, because one of the main problems with what is happening now is that the Christian People's Party and the Left have been involved in cutting the county before we start a regional reform. One is dental, the other is high school, which there's a little bit of uncertainty around now. Are they going to keep it or not, or are you going to carry on with these trials that are said to have an intention to get away from the regional level to the large municipalities? And that's the case with public transport. Public transport is obviously a regional task, where one cannot sit in single municipalities – large municipalities such as Oslo need cooperation with other large municipalities and other areas around them. This will happen in any case, everywhere, public transport needs to be managed at a regional level because you need to get a continuous journey. What does the Christian People's Party really mean about these things, and can they now guarantee that such typical regional tasks as high school, dental and public transport will not be removed until the reform is completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2042	I think in the case of high school, we've agreed with the government that it's going to be practiced the way it was done in the red-green period. The same exemption and exemption rules shall be followed and the same practices applied. So I'll refute that. As far as public transport is concerned, I have just said that the regions should be service providers. They still have to be. So I just want to end by saying that if the Christian People's Party and the Left are accused of cutting the county council's wings when we've got a lot of new work to do, and that's going to be carried out by the majority of the population, I take a great deal of distance from the description that we've been cutting the county council. If you were at the hearing, you would hear the enthusiasm that has been mentioned, that several others have pointed out, and where the county rapporteurs and the KS have come up with a long list of how the new region should be put together. I am aware that the opposite of wing clipping is that something is taking off. I hope it does, and that SV contributes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2052	The President asks that all speeches be addressed to the President and not to the representative. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2057	‘Societal development requires holistic thinking’ is the heading of one of the chapters of the Regional Communication. I fully agree with that, but I was very quick to say that there is a significant difference between what the government means by a holistic approach, and what the Central Party means by a holistic approach. The government and, regrettably, the vast majority of the population's views on social development are that fewer states, centralisation and longer distances between people and people elected are the responses of time to good social development. Me and the Center Party have a different view. We mean the number of counties, like the number of municipalities, has to be determined by the great variation this country is characterized by. The largest county in the country, Finnmark, is the smallest in the population. The least, Oslo, has most inhabitants. Finnmark and Oslo both evolve best if the policy design takes place according to the local conditions that characterise these states. It is difficult to imagine that social developments in Finnmark are improving if regional transport, secondary schools, regional cultural measures and planning are solved by politicians covering large parts of North Norway. People in Finnmark don't think it's like that, but it obviously means the government and the majority of the population. They don't want to take into account the local. The objective of ten counties is more important than what the inhabitants think. The central party wants to strengthen the elected regional level. We will do that by assigning to the county councils tasks currently entrusted to state administration, such as the county councillors, the district councils and other state sector management. In the timing of the regional notification, the Central Party shall promote a proposal containing 14 proposals for specific task transfers to the counties. Our proposals are not linked to a prerequisite for changes in the state structure. We have 19 county councils, all of which are fully capable of taking on new and larger tasks. At least there should be no doubt about that. The regional announcement is marked by the fact that it is not the government's husband-born child. It has not been brought forth by the enthusiasm of the populous county councils. As I mentioned in a reply, the Prime Minister in the Address Paper on 9 April said: «Regional reform is not our project. It is something we have put forward because the Left, the KrF and the rest of the big stuff have asked for it." So it was all the parties, except the government parties, who clearly stated in the 2015 vote on the municipal proposition that there is a need for popular governance at regional level, and that this must be a fundamental principle for the work on changes in the municipal structure. The majority also said that any changes in the county structure must, like changes in the municipal structure, be based on local needs. I think I have everyone from this majority with me when I believe that the government does not follow up this majority comment in a particularly offensive way. We assumed that the government would present a regional communication in which concrete proposals were made for the transfer of tasks from the state sector to elected states. Instead, the government chooses to discuss the number of counties without concrete proposals for task transfer. Once again, these reforms start at a wrong end. The geographical breakdown here in the country is guided by regional identity — and also guided by what is considered to be an appropriate structure in terms of tasks to be addressed and in terms of cooperation with municipalities. In the last few years, we have had two assessments of altered county structure, in the Agder counties and in the Trondelag counties. In Agder it ended with the status quo, for the Trondelags, we will today adopt a merger. The regional breakdown of government is primarily guided by sector-specific interests. Coordination with counties and municipalities is of little importance, and this has led to a very different geographical breakdown. We agree that the boundaries of state regional governance need to be better adapted to the county boundaries. However, I do not agree with those who believe that larger states are a prerequisite for these adaptations to be put in place. We do not need to screw the centralisation screw further. I notice that the government parties and the Left refer to their agreement on the municipal income system, where they say that the municipal reform must facilitate greater areas of competence throughout the country. It states that work on locating new and existing jobs outside Oslo should be reinforced. Then my question is, what have they done? There's nothing new in these target formulations. Finally, I would like to include the proposal of the Centre Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2086	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2091	Listening to the reports of the Centre Party, both in local reform debates and in regional reform debates, it may seem that the motto seems that just everything can be the same, we are sure that everything will remain the same. There is little willingness to initiate change in general government. But in one area, the Central Party, together with the Workers' Party, has put forward a proposal in the present case, and I am surprised that the Central Party is involved. So they're proposing to move the distribution of the discretionary funds to the municipalities of the State to be a task subject to the regionally elected level. This would be an intervention against the autonomous municipalities, and I thought the Center Party was the district's warmest defender. But now it is time that the discretionary means of the municipalities should be subject to party political control at the regionally elected level. How is this a strengthening of local self-government and local government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2101	The centre party is concerned that all tasks and matters that are subject to political judgement should be assessed by politicians — who can actually get the cat at the next elections — not by the government. We are concerned that the State should have supervisory responsibilities and guidance tasks — pure-bred supervisory tasks — and that which is subject to political judgement should be carried out by politicians. I have to say that when I see the tasks that the County has obviously been carried out in the last year in the area of municipal reform, I am not less convinced of that point of view – on the contrary, more convincingly. In those cases, the County is overstepping the local beauty. The government has now set County as a torpedo for the municipal reform. The county council shall review local decisions, review local referendums. It should not be a county task. The county council should have purely supervisory tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2106	I have also read proposal No. 9, which is behind the Center Party and the Labour Party, with a great deal of anxiety. One talk about supervisory tasks, and the representative, Mr. Greni, knows that the ROBEK register is one of the most important supervisory functions that the county officials have with the municipal sector, where they actively follow up with financial management and that competence. It's the same competence that's used to measure the skinners. So what I'm asking you is: Should one also shift the supervision of the ROBEK function to the regional level, or shall a build up two separate administrations, both of which have competence in local economy and follow-up? It would be very good to have some reflections from the Central Party on how they see in practice that regional politicians are going to take over that role. And if it's such a very good idea -- why did one do nothing in the eight years that one had the chance? Why was it a convenient thing that the county officials also distributed paint media in a red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2115	As I replied to the previous reply, we're concerned that the discretionary tasks should lie with someone who's a politician, that the discretionary tasks should lie with someone who can actually get the cat if they don't do their job. It's not that these benets are distributed without there being any leads on them. Today, too, the key points are how these funds are to be distributed. They are not taken out of the loose air and distributed according to satisfaction. It is clear that those responsible for who should be in the ROBEK register must also have an instrument to help those municipalities out of the misdemeanour. It should be at the same level, and where it is going to be, we will look at it in the further investigation. But in principle, everything that has to do with political discretion should be done by politicians – such as us, who can get the cat if we do a very bad job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2120	I didn't think I could ask a new follow-up question, but I thank you for that. I'm not getting very wise on the reasoning of the Center Party. Just because it's called "feeling agents" doesn't necessarily mean that that task is just a matter of understanding. It is precisely with the representative himself who did well for now, that following up municipalities at ROBEK, while having a toolkit with paint tools, gives the County State today a good opportunity to help them in a good way. I'm afraid of the bureaucracy if you want to split the two tasks. But does the representative agree that those who are going to follow up ROBEK municipalities are the same as those who are going to sit on the paint tool toolbox? Is there a consensus in that? That's the question to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2129	I guess that's exactly what I answered the previous question. With regard to the concern about the role of the State in the future, I have very great concern about the role of the State in the future. Every year the county has been a good guide and a good partner for the municipalities. Through the supervisory task he has, he has also been a very good advisor to Norwegian municipalities. It's been a very good interaction. Now today's government has turned County into a torpedo for the municipal reform. This means that the relationship with the County Council is very, very strenuous around many municipalities, and the guidance role he has, and the advice that comes, may not be taken seriously in the future. So the role assigned to the County by the new government really worries me about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2136	We have never used the word torpedo... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2142	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2145	SV is in favour of a regional reform with content, but we say no to a regional reform without content, which is what the government has presented. It may not be so strange when the government does not want regional reform, but will remove the intermediate level of Norwegian policy. It's a little strange that someone can defend refurbishing Norway so dramatically without really knowing what to use these big regions for, and without anything that's felt to be important for people living there. If this is to be a democracy reform, we are at risk of ending up with what is the worst thing about the county councils today: that people feel that it is a great distance, and that you have no tasks that are important to people. Here, the government will strip the county of tasks that are important to people – such as public transport and high school – and they will not give them new ones, such as: to take over the hospitals, which were under county control before, which is a task that people care about very much, and to which you now feel a very remoteness because you have created a management system for what makes it really almost no popular control over it. I've been working on this for 25 years. In 1991, I was elected county food rapporteur in Hedmark. I worked on these things and wanted a regional reform. Then the child protection was under the county council, and the same was the hospitals, the care services, etc., so that was a good starting point for doing this. But then there were other parties that didn't want to. If we are to carry out such reforms as are proposed by the government, for example. a community reform or a regional reform, now, it has to be because one has to solve some of the major and heavy challenges. My opinion and SV's is that you don't do that with any of the reforms. One major, heavy trend is depopulation and depopulation. Joining two poor municipalities doesn't make anyone rich or big. Nor will it be a big city if you combine rural municipalities with a medium-sized city – there will be no big city like that. Regional reform should have solved what is really a major challenge in Norway today, namely joint land and transport planning across large municipalities and, today, county municipalities, where there is a shortage of land, where there is a need for public transport and traffic solutions to solve climate problems, and where better protection of food soils can be ensured in this scarcity situation. None of this is solved either by municipal reform or regional reform, because if you want to solve it, you have to add the overall land and transport planning to a large enough level and it could have taken a regional reform. It's probably the fear of the over-communist ghost that rides this, but I hope it matures, because it would have to be done. SV has also submitted a number of proposals that we believe should be part of a regional reform in order to defend the refurbishment of Norway in this way. In the case of hospitals, and in the case of industrial policy instruments — very important if this level is to be experienced as a useful partner for the business community in the area. You're not particularly interesting if you don't have anything to put on the table. I have mentioned the protection of children, and I have mentioned public transport, it must be back, but also the roadside and the research must be included. So I'm going to raise one point where we have a common proposal with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I'm asking the Council of State to really consider that. To be a regional policy actor, competence and knowledge are one of the most important inputs you have. What we know is that it's hard for people in many places in the country to acquire and fill up education. That is why we have proposed that these regions and county councils today should have the means to initiate, facilitate and decentralise higher education in many places in the country where you need it. Today, this is done at universities and universities’ premises, but it must be on local and regional premises that such training can be facilitated around the country. That is why I ask the majority to look at proposal No. 5 in the vote and vote for it, because it will be an instrument that the regions can really need if they are to play a good role.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2164	Should the representative record SV's proposal No. 13?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2167	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2172	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposal put forward by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2175	Societal development, which is still characterised by conflicting objectives, demands greater overallity and coordination in many areas: knowledge, economic development, land-use planning, transport, public health and culture, resource management and, above all, climate and environment. The Green Party therefore joins a unanimous committee to support a regional reform that facilitates social development based on regional advantages and assumptions and strengthens the ability of regions to meet new tasks of better coordination. However, climate and environmental issues are no longer sectoral interests equated with many other interests. They are the essence and driving force of the fundamental change project that many call the green shift and that society as a whole must implement. This has too little impact on the debate on regional reform. In 2016, when we are embarking on a major regional reform, we need to have a clear idea of the objective. The aim must be to make the regions central tools of the green shift and to prepare the regions to go through this shift – and to bloom afterwards. There are areas where it's decent to get bigger. We need a stronger regional level under elected government that can take regional leadership in cooperation with municipalities, businesses and government. The regions must be clearly defined in terms of responsibilities and powers for the tasks that are important for regional development and for the coordination of these tasks with the activities of the municipalities and the State in the region. When we discuss larger regions, we also need to ask some key questions: Will the space for action and authority for sustainable social planning be increased? How do we implement the major measures for green food development, public health, culture, nature and food soil? How do we create the best possible development without losing values? How do we cut emissions and get ahead of ourselves in achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement? The Green Party believes that it must be an objective and a clear prerequisite for the creation of new regions that they become effective low-emission regions with strong economic development by 2030 in the context of strict cultural, natural and environmental requirements. Overall, this is the basis for the overall objective: regions with a high quality of life. Much of the debate is about the need for new and important tasks for regions. For the Green Party, it is essential and democratic that all decisions are taken at the lowest decision-making level, as close as possible to the population – that is, often in the municipalities. At the same time, however, decisions that have regional or national implications must be governed by a regional or nationally elected level. That is why we support proposals from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre that tasks that facilitate the use of political discretion are added to the popular regional level, and services such as Innovation Norway, secondary education, dentistry, collective services, etc. are maintained at the regionally elected level, while administrative tasks currently assigned to the State Environmental Protection Department and the Agricultural Department must be maintained. Whereas it is necessary to strengthen the regional planning authority, the institution of objection and the possibility of using regional planning provisions; Better coordinated spatial and transport planning at regional level is good both for municipal and for national levels. The counties have to take more control over their own future, and the counties have made clear what tasks they want. Now it's up to the government to clarify what they're emphasising in a merger process. The importance of the societal development role that the states already have today is under-communicated and underestimated. One of the prerequisites for the success of regional reform is that this role becomes clearer. Any new and larger regions must be given a clear mandate and be responsible for implementing changes. Countries need to be given tasks and powers that strengthen the ability to drive sustainable social development. Climate change and environmentally sound regional development are key to future welfare. It is a prerequisite for competitive business, and public services and well-being must, in themselves, not undermine the life base of a secure future. The Paris Agreement, which has been signed by the government, makes much greater demands for social change in Norway than has so far been incorporated into Norwegian policy. The regional reform should be the first stage in which this premise is built up from the ground up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2198	Following the initiative of the Left, the Stortinget has decided that we should continue to have three levels of government and that a regional reform should be implemented. Like the chairman of the Committee, I would like to congratulate both the representative André N. Skjelstad and the representative Geir Tuskedal for bringing this matter forward and for having gained a significant impact in cooperation with the government parties. I am pleased that the Storing Message has received broad support from both state politicians and the Stortinget. I also see that there is a broad consensus that a new regional structure is necessary in order for the regions to be able to take a stronger hold on developments in their own region. Stronger regions with a clearer societal development role require changes in the regional structure. Major regions are also a prerequisite for transferring more responsibilities and new tasks. But let me stress that we don't move tasks for the sake of administrative levels. We shift tasks and responsibilities so that municipalities and new regions can provide better services to citizens and businesses, and that we can ensure more balanced and sustainable social development. Today's county boundaries have been almost unchanged since the mid-19th century. Since then, modern Norway has grown. Communication and infrastructure, business structure and housing structure have changed radically. Today’s societal challenges do not stop at today’s borders. Climate and climate change adaptation, industrial change and skills development require efforts and priorities that look at larger areas in the context. These are societal challenges that also require efforts across actors and levels of governance. A strategic societal role and ability to meet societal challenges are therefore closely linked to regional structure. The government is proposing ten new regions. The county rapporteurs and the KS support this. They've taken the ball, and the neighboring calls are going well in all the counties. I myself have had conversations and dialogue with the rapporteurs in connection with the work on the Storing Message. I am pleased that there is also a majority in the Grand Duchy who believe that about ten regions are the right level. This is an important signal that the government, with its proposal, is on track with the development of the intermediate level. Leadership is demonstrated by teams and takes action on their own efforts for the development of the region. Stronger regions facilitate the decentralisation of power and a more balanced development of society. The need to clear regional structures is evident. Better sectoral coordination requires better administrative interaction. Ten regions provide a basis for much better interaction with the country. Ten regions are also able to discuss the regional breakdown of the country. We propose to review the state regional structure in the light of a new structure for the regionally elected level. The various State actors also do not have similar structures. Among 38 state agencies there are 36 different regional divisions. At present, there is little coincidence between the division of the county and the regional division of state agencies. The State has organised its regional activities with many different structures. The common feature is that they mainly have fewer regions than 19. We've already started work on a new county structure. The county is a central partner for regionally elected levels, and it is therefore important that these structures work well together. Major regions will have more tasks. In the message we propose the transfer of important tasks, and we notify further assessment of tasks. The transfer of new tasks and functions requires larger regions. Some believe that this is not enough. Of course, expectations are linked to new tasks as part of the reform. The Committee asks us to consider additional tasks than we have proposed. Of course, we're going to follow that up. As many of the rapporteurs said in the hearing on the reform, it is important to put in place the structure so that it provides the basis for new tasks in the future. I would like to remind you that when the previous major municipal reform was carried out in the 1960s, the number of municipalities was reduced from 700 to around 450. It provided the basis for the transfer of important tasks and the development of the welfare country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2243	I record that the Council of State gives extra praise to the Left and the Christian People's Party for their success. It's nice of the government to do that, but the impact doesn't get bigger for that reason. Now the Council of State gets a new expert selection, he's happy with selection. Now he gets a new one, as it looks, after the vote. I want to ask the Council of State: how will this sample be compiled? Will it be representation from the states, from those who are actually there? Will there be any consultation document? Will there be recording rounds? How wide should this sample be? How should state policy-makers, and not least citizens, be able to follow the work and progress of the sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2252	Let me extend the praise also to representatives of the Workers' Party, not least forward-looking state politicians in the North and South Tronde Teams, who have shown leadership in this situation. I believe that in these kinds of questions we will cooperate where there is a basis for cooperation. The easiest thing to do is to lean back and just criticise. I hope that the Workers' Party in the future also wants to be a constructive co-player to develop the regional level. I think we have to be able to do that across the party-political dividing lines. I am pleased that the Labour Party and the cooperation parties are united in several areas of the vote. When it comes to the composition of this expert committee, we have to get back to it. But I think it's wise of the majority to say that there should be someone who can see this from the outside, just to see what's most functional in terms of task relocation, and what level it should be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2261	Thanks for the answer, and also thank you for the praise of a selection of workers' party representatives around the country. It's nice. Much of the criticism in the context of the municipal reform has been about unforeseeable by the government. Not least, it has been strong, and I believe it is correct, criticism that the municipalities did not get clarity on the tasks they would get if they grew larger. Is not the Council of State concerned that the regional reform can have the same outcome as we now see large parts of the municipal reform have had – it has not completely gone down, at least as the Council of State wanted – when we now see that the regions are not going to know anything about new tasks either before they are asked to make a decision on any mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2269	Let me just say in the case of the municipal reform, that we've already achieved more in two and a half years than what happened in the last 20 years. Now we see that in a lot of states there are important contractions. It's good for the people, it's good for business, it's good for development, and it's good for the spread of power in our country. Let me also say that in the case of the municipal reform, a little bit of the challenge is that many municipalities are too small for the tasks they are responsible for today. Already when the Schei Committee's position was discussed at the beginning of the 1960s, it was thought that municipalities should have between 5,000 and 10,000 inhabitants. One in three municipalities still have fewer than 2,500, and since then the municipalities have been given more and more tasks. In the case of the counties, structure is also important. We see that in this area, the Fornebubanen stopped because it's an inappropriate structure. From Drammen to Oslo you can drive in half an hour, and only there are three county municipalities. There are also many other places in the country. One has a structure that is not adapted to today's challenges. Of course, new regions must also have more tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2282	The municipal reform is probably seen as a downhill for the Council of State following the results of the referendums that have been held. From a large number of teams, it appears that the results might have been different if the government had been equally ambitious in transferring new tasks to the municipalities, as it has been in doing something about the structure and providing fewer municipalities. The municipalities believe they are more than large enough for today's tasks. As far as regional reform is concerned, we must note that it is a reluctance of the government to launch it. The Right Party and the Advance Party would have preferred to bring down the County. Now the reform has been launched, and the states have been asked to discuss merging with neighbouring states. Does the Council of State think that regional reform will be more successful than local reform? What will he say to all those who, among other things, at the hearing called for political will to transfer government tasks from state officials, from directorates and from state agencies to county councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2291	Let me just say that I fundamentally disagree with the description of the municipal reform. On the contrary, we see that very many and especially small municipalities see that they are closer together, so we agree to join other municipalities. They do so because they take responsibility for social development, take responsibility for being able to provide their citizens with good services for the future. I'm recording that the Center Party nationally leans back, criticises and believes that everything is just like you don't make any change. But it won't be like that. We need, as national politicians, to take responsibility for societal development and to help us to have levels of governance that can address the cross-border challenges of local and regional government, whether in terms of climate, environment, soil conservation or economic development in our country. I believe we'll get it done. With the decision of the Storting on three levels of government, I have even heard that the Council of State has come out of the cabinet as a regionalist! I believe that if we are to have three levels of government, we must ensure that we have a good and regional level that can solve important societal challenges in the future. That is why I am doing this task, and that is why I am also having a good dialogue with the rapporteurs from various parties throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2300	Thanks for the answer – that was not really an answer to my main question. The hearing bodies, and in particular the consulting counties, called for a different order in this reform. So the problems have to work out first, before we know how big we should be to solve these problems. What will the Council of State say to those who are now calling for concrete new tasks for the regions? Why aren't they in place before the states are going to discuss how to organize? To use an agricultural metaphor that we're pretty good at in the Center Party: if you're going to rebuild your poultry, it's good to know if you're going to have hens or cows. Here the counties are to rebuild the structure without knowing what content they are to fill it with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2307	The majority of the population is quite clear, is that moving tasks to today's county councils is completely out of the question. Today's county councils have no majority in today's magnificence. On the other hand, it is a majority of ten regions because a new regional level, with about ten regions, is better able to meet the societal challenges we face. Then the task discussion becomes a little honey-and-egg discussion. We believe it is important to see that we actually get a structure that is forward-looking and that can address the challenges and contribute to growth and development in all parts of the country. Then we have already proposed some tasks and some responsibility that can be transferred, and we are open to further progress. I could also like to invite the Centre Party into a constructive dialogue on this. I believe that all parties, regardless of their position, should have an interest in getting a regional level to deal with the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2314	SV is in favour of regional reform, but we believe that we simply need to know what we are going to use the regions for before we refurbish the Norway map. It doesn't seem like the Council of State is so very concerned. In my speech, I was concerned with this with regional planning, spatial planning, the ability to meet climate objectives, to strengthen soil protection and to solve the traffic challenges of housing and industrial areas, will require regional solutions, and that regional solutions must be binding, while what the government is proposing is to assess how to make regional planning more binding – not binding, but more binding – for regional levels, for municipalities and for regional State actors. There's a pretty big difference between that. One of them solves the problem -- what the government has proposed doesn't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2321	I disagree. On the other hand, I agree that we have some challenges that require more committed regional planning. It's about being able to take care of food, it's about being able to deal with climate and environmental challenges, it's about facilitating infrastructure planning, development projects, etc. We now equip regions, counties and municipalities with tools to get this done. One of the first things we got in place was urban development agreements, which mean that municipalities, state and state should act as more equivalent partners in order to achieve good social development. It is the municipalities that are responsible for housing construction and for regulation plans within their territory. We believe and believe that we should have more binding regional plans, but we should not equip the county or the region as a supremacy. We are in favour of a strengthened local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2332	But you're not going to solve these important problems in a more flexible and good way in the future, if you're not willing to dry, for example. to get past this over-communist ghost and see that here there is a task that needs to be solved at regional level. There we disagree. SV believes it, the government and the majority don't mean it, unfortunately. I want to address the second theme that I mentioned in my article, namely decentralised higher education. It is a regional policy instrument that needs to be strengthened, because it will be absolutely vital for the regions that they can provide training for their population – also for their adult population – there and there, so that they can stand in the labour market, have family, not move, not be able to carry out development continuously according to their needs and interests, and not necessarily because there is a university or university that wants to do just that right there and then. Does the Council of State see the same need?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2341	It may be that the Council of State does, but it's not sure that it's the exact same solution. What we have pointed out in the Communication is that new regions should have a more important role in terms of skills strategies, including those related to continuing training. I believe that for a region to be more responsible for regional social development, where to look at industrial development and development of competences, competence strategies are an important tool. There must, of course, be close cooperation between the regions and universities and higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2348	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2353	The size has determined that there should be a level between the municipalities and the state, and today the Stortinget determines that there should be about ten regions. The new regions will have a holistic responsibility for the county road network. Regions will also have far greater access to economic development, transport and other important tasks than the current county. When the new regions are in place, work will also be started to adapt several states to the new regional borders, and in order to achieve this, the government will be asked to set up an expert selection to propose tasks from the directorate/supervisory and regional state to the regions. I am very pleased that my own country is a driving force for a strong Western region, and I would like to commend the work done by the state politicians and the state spokesperson to get this done. The majority comments from the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV that regions should make up functional units, and that the related bus and work regions as a general rule should not be split are also important in the further work on the reform. On behalf of approx. There are 1 250 enterprises in the North and South Troms which have several associations of business enterprises in the People's border region between Nordland and Troms. They have great expectations that the Stortinget and the government in the further work on regional reform will contribute to the artificial border between Nordland and Troms becoming history from 1 January 2020. In the boundaries between Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal, there is also evidence that the border is a major obstacle to the development of a strong and forward-looking building and working region, and that this boundary can also prevent an exciting municipal convergence. We see the same thing at the other end of More and Romesdal, where municipalities see themselves at the best chance of getting together with municipalities on the other side of the county border. On our journeys with the Committee, this has also been seen as an important wish in the work on local and regional reform. A number of the Committee points out that the regional reform will have implications for the interaction between municipalities, the region and the state. In the border areas between the new regions, there will also be different points of view about each region border to be drawn. The same majority also suggests that it is important for municipalities to engage and participate in the process of regional reform, and that their local authorities must also focus on further work on regional reform. Now the municipalities have the chance to draw the map across the future regional boundaries both through the management of the county municipalities before 1 December and as a recording against the Stortinget's management next spring. The new regional borders will remain in place for many decades, and then they will have to be suitable for creating growth and development in cohesive employment and labour regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2377	I'm not going to extend the hen debate, as one would have said in Trøndelag, of which the representative Greni was so busy, but instead maybe try to talk a little bit about what's the essence of what we're doing now. When the process stood and tilted in many ways a few years ago, there was a process that said how many levels it should be. We're satisfied that we've got the third level. This is a decentralization through the decisions we are making today. Then there are many who choose to criticize, since we are now making a significant recalibration of something that has been going on since 1804. It's a historic day, where many prefer to look back. There is no doubt that with 19 county municipalities it would not have been possible to decentralise as many tasks as the representatives of the centre party in particular point to. We have never hidden from the Left that we would have wanted seven to nine regions, where it would have been possible to place regional health businesses. I look at what is being promoted from the minority, and I have to respectfully report that when the same minority is enthusiastic today, I think it's good. I choose to say that that is the whole thing, a whole big deal that will be reasonably agreed when there are even more problems to be outsourced. There will be a consensus that is very broad, because there is no doubt that it makes it easier, after today, to think about climate and environment and to have larger and wider planning processes. Then exactly the structure is extremely important. They've seen it in Tøndelag, and they've gone ahead, which we'll get back to in the next case, and I think it's important to get there. So it's going to be taken up: what about the neighboring conversation now until December 1st? Yes, there are no referendums. Here it is stated that it is the national parliament that takes control of the entire reform, as it has also happened before in the case of national health businesses, etc. There's nothing unique about this. Here we claim the right to actually divide Norway, but at the same time we open up the necessary neighbouring conversations, where you can find peace in your own house, to say that. We see it in the Trendelag, we see that there have been positive processes in Agder, where you agree to go together, after the county decision. I think that's positive. I think this should be a positive day, and that you don't use the pulpit to look back to 200 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2390	In tranny chicken debates, I probably have little to contribute, but at least I thought we'd talk a little bit about the regions of the future. So I looked forward to the government's big message. But I was not only surprised, I was surprised and disappointed that it is at all possible to present such a document. It bears the mark of a government that will not do anything in the case of stronger regions. What is contained in the big message is hardly a conclusion, hardly a proposal. Everything shall be considered, everything shall be looked at, and one shall be ‘targeted’. This is not a regional reform. This is about some group mergers, and there's something else. It should be said that it has been tightened up a little through the treatment in Stortinget, thanks to the Left and Christian People's Party, but still it's not nearly there that we can talk about regional reform. My approach is the following: either we have to do this properly, or we'll leave the whole thing alone. Now we must have learned from the municipal reform, where we have not done it properly, and where the municipal minister now – and he is basically a catalyst for it – sees that we have municipal mergers using the input method. There is a total lack of management of the project. Neither will it be a municipal reform. We get some municipal contractions over here and over here. He has even said that it is okay for municipalities that do not have a common border to merge. Someone says we have to take structure first, and then the problems come. Someone says we have to do the problems and then the structure. I believe both parts are wrong. I think it has to be done at the same time – both parts, both structure and tasks. That is what was going on in the community reform discussion. The third thing that went there was that in the middle of the process, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left adopted a new income system for the municipal sector. It is clear organisational theory that content, structure and financial framework conditions must be taken together when reorganising. If there's one place a obviously should have had a larger region, it's in the Oslo area. There we can now find ourselves in this situation – because Oslo does not want to join forces with local authorities, whether the current or the previous city council – that we have a metropolitan region without Oslo. It might be interesting to hear the Minister of Municipalities say a little about how he assesses the situation in the capital area and Oslo's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2401	Underpinning strong words about democracy and new tasks, both the regional reform and the municipal reform appear to be clearer and clearer as a reform for the centralisation of service provision and the weakening of public administration. The majority want an expert selection to find out what the new regions should do, but about ten regions will be suitable for the experts. Yes, it can be concluded with everything today. Dental Service is a task that has been a wasteball in the puzzle on the division of tasks between state, region and municipality. I am not aware that the political party has opted to move the dental services from the populace to the elected local government. There is no hold point, distribution, or analysis to show that the population will receive an equivalent or equivalent service offer by moving this service. On the contrary, there is a risk that existing trade unions will split up and that the quality of service provision will be poorer. Previous distributions, NOU 2005:11, Public engagement in the dental field and St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007, on future dental services, has concluded that public dental services should be anchored at county level. The Norwegian Dental Association has warned of the consequences of such a move, which has not been adequately addressed. Today's Norwegian dental model has proved to be very successful. The model has produced good results, also seen in international contexts. In the committee setting, four parties, the centre party, the Christian People's Party, the SV and the Labour Party, actually show that they believe that the best arguments imply that dental health is being a county municipal task. So neither the Right, the Progress Party, nor the Left in the setting have any meaning in this important thing. If that means that they no longer think this is a good idea, and that the matter is ripening, I'm happy for it. I have not heard any argument that the use of resources in the dental services is bad, and that it will be improved by a reorganization. Today we should have discussed what new tasks came to the regions, but there are few who talk about the regions actually losing a very important task, which is good luck, and the centre party is very concerned about the quality by splitting up the trade union environment this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2416	I would like to thank the representative of Myrli. I agree with every word he said. It was a good post – for this is a message without having anything to report. I have repeated it before, and I say it again: SV is for a regional reform, but if we are to refurbish all of Norway, it must be because we know what we are going to use it for. The county councils are struggling with legitimacy today and do not feel important enough. Larger regions with no important content will wear even more. That is what the Progress Party and the Right will do, because then they can remove that level. It should at least be very clear to the Christian People's Party and the Left. When the representative from the Left, the President-in-Office, was up here, he mentioned, for example: not that the chosen level must have a type of identity. You have too little in the counties today. How should it be strengthened if this applies only to tasks which are, please, a little bit more of what the county council is doing? It's not exactly something that will get the population very engaged. On the other hand, if you have the means to operate hospitals, if you have the means to manage overall land and transport planning so that you get climate-friendly housing and transport policies and the protection of food soils, and if you get tools and have some money to put on the table in order to run or at least initiate decentralised higher education and the skills you need in the area, it will be something that the population can be involved in. I think the Council of State is elusive in the answer he gave me when it comes to decentralised higher education, because it's not just about coordinating. If you're just going to sit and coordinate, you might as well have a state to do that. There must be some tools to put on the table if you are to be an interesting partner for municipalities, for businesses and for educational institutions such as universities and colleges – not just Norwegians, they can also be from elsewhere. I've been on the board of such a foundation in Kongswinger for 25 years, and it's going well. Still, that foundation gets some money from the state budget. It works very well, but it works because you have something to put in the pot's water. And it works because you have the capacity to find out what education industry and public sector needs in this area, and what kind of education the population lacks that can contribute to better development for the whole area. There are such instruments SV believe that both in the field of business development, in the field of transport, in the field of culture, and in the field of education – in addition to not having to cut down tasks that the county community is currently doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2433	In previous debates and here today, I note that the Left in many ways makes itself the elephant that has cleared the way for a new regional reform. When it comes to the piece – here, now, today, when the Left could get a majority for its own party program – the Left appears more like a political knot than an elephant. The left runs from its own promises and is more concerned with the number of ten regions than with what the tasks and content should be. The Left Programme says that they will give ‘the new regions as a whole are politically professional and financially responsible for transport, agriculture, business and rural development, culture, higher education, environmental protection and cultural memory protection, regional planning and security and preparedness’. Furthermore, it says that they want to move ‘management of land regulations, centre structure and other discretionary guidelines from the County Office of the new regions’. That's what Left wants. Now the Left makes sure that the debate in the regions can end up in a purely geographical debate without knowing the content, without knowing the problems. It does not promote the objective. Something should have been learned from the local reform, as previous speakers have said, where lack of clarity in tasks in many places led the municipalities to see no point in joining forces. The Left – and Christian People’s Party in so far – plays loudly with a regional reform that a majority in this Chamber actually wants, but as the Left and Christian People’s Party today does not dare to be concrete. They settle for a new investigation, and it's very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2448	I understand that not all the world did happen with regional reform in the previous years. One would like to create a wish list with what is not possible. When one then lands and finds out what the wish list contains, one cannot agree. That was in many ways what happened to the previous regional reform. And then a guy likes to listen to and talk down on the level that a part of us is very excited about, that we also got through to, and that we just have the debate on today. I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that we would like to have the opportunity to learn more about higher education around. But I respect the fact that there are also a number of things that have happened before we came to the debate that we have had here today. We'd like to get more involved at the regional level, where we'd have had the opportunity to scrape. Luckily, we have the opportunity through the colleges. I think that makes sense, but I would have liked to see that we also had a college system with the possibility of that tailor-meal. So one can like to run with a re-combatability, for example, for dental health. We are doing important tasks to the regional level today, and I believe that municipalities can offer dental treatment to their citizens in an excellent way. In other contexts, the same party that is most critical of it would like to have more tasks at the local level, i.e. the municipality, but in this context you don't want them. Higher education will continue to be at regional level. Here it is said, as we also agreed last year in the hall here, that the exception that also the red-greens had before, is just passed on. If you have such an enthusiasm for the regional level, and I have so far understood that we have, I hope that someone can talk it up more. What I'm experiencing today is that someone is trying to talk the regional level down, and I think that's regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2461	The left-hand denominator honeys right as it is. In a debate in 2004 – I think it was – there was a crisis due to egg shortages, and then Left Lars Sponheim was concerned that each man should have his own hen. I had hoped that we had come further in the debate here today. I had the pleasure of being elected at the regional level in the County of Southern Trøndelag from 1987 to 1999. During this period, the county councils were responsible for the health protection of mentally retarded people, they were responsible for hospitals, for psychiatry, for the drug field, for child protection, etc. – tasks that the county also handled in a very good manner at the time. After that time, many of these tasks have been delegated to the municipalities, while something has been centralised up to the state – tasks that were important to the municipalities and to the residents who lived there, who should have a close relationship with their services. If we are to develop good, strong regions that are subject to direct popular governance and that can and will take a governing responsibility, we must also give them tasks afterwards – tasks that are meaningful, tasks that are important to those who live in these areas. Now, when the Trøndelag has taken this step, when these two county municipalities have found together and found it right to release it to a common regional level and create good services for their territories, it is not because of the government, but despite the government. When we are going to have a municipal reform and a regional reform, it is not about numbers, statistics and borders. It is about content and quality, it is about kindergarten, school, care for the elderly, county roads, etc. It's not about pulling up a number and setting a limit. This is almost like a coercion: you know you're getting married, but you don't know who you're getting. It is also important for us to have such reforms, to describe the work that needs to be done, which this level should have and manage in a good and safe way for its citizens. These tasks and this story have not been told by the government or the Council of State in any way. That's why more municipalities say no to this structure and this reform, and so it's even more important in the future that we can do this in a good way. It's not enough to say that we're going to have ten regions, so this is going to be very good. It is said that the knowledge and tasks of the municipalities relating to these services have become too large. But it's the Storing that has delegated this. Has the Storting delegated it to the municipalities knowing that these are people who do not work well enough or do not have good skills? No, today we know that people living in this country have a much higher competence in kindergartens, schools and welfare services. We are perhaps the people of the world who are the most educated, and we want to deal with this in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2478	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2481	First of all, to the rapporteur: nobody here is talking down the county councils. It is a government that does not want to have the regional level supported by the Left, and where you now believe in some kind of fairy tale that only you bow to the premises of the government, it is going to be a major reform. I don't believe it. When the representative of the Left also argues against these regions having some means of strengthening decentralised higher education, and later on as if something had been downgraded or had not been on the map before, it has been removed from the air. It must be possible to have some means to achieve it. SV is going to vote against I, II and III. We have better proposals for maritime transport, and we disagree with the premise – ten regions – that underpins it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2490	In the exchange of lines today, the representative said that the Central Party does not want any new tasks for the county municipalities. Then I have to say it is a pity that the members of the committee have not taken the time to read the position on this matter. The Centre Party shall promote 14 concrete proposals for tasks which should be transferred to the counties. Hospital management. In the first instance, by removing the regional health establishments and keeping the established hospital establishments, but by governing where a majority is appointed by the county. Transfer of the responsibility for the protection of state children through Bufetat to county municipalities. Transfer of responsibility for district psychiatric clinics. Family protection is transferred from state to county. Regional road administration, which is responsible for planning and operating the county roads, is transferred to the county municipalities. The regional apparatus of Innovation Norway is transferred to the counties. Parts of the Research Council's programme are transferred to the counties. Festival support from the Council of Culture is transferred to the counties. Cultural memory protection is cultivated as a county task. Administrative tasks added to the State Environment and Agriculture Department are transferred to the counties. Incidents of predatory game are transferred from the State to the counties. Higher education and vocational schools are continued as purely municipal tasks and are not added to individual cities. Responsibility for public transport is continued as municipal tasks. Public dental services are returned to county municipalities. That was our 14 suggestions. The centre party was prepared to support the proposals for the Roman number decisions, but after hearing the debate today, I would like to inform you that we are going to vote against I, II and III. It's not because we disagree. That's because we have better suggestions ourselves. Of course, we agree that the same road administration should move to regional level, but after hearing the premises of the Council of State and Government parties today, that it requires ten regions, we cannot vote in favour of those decisions. It sounds like there's a premise that if we don't come down to ten regions, we won't be adding new tasks to the county. That is why we are voting against the proposals for Decisions I, II and III today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2543	I have some reflections after a – so far – strange debate. As far as the Center Party is concerned, it's as predictable as sad that they don't want to participate in anything, so I get that. But that the Workers' Party thus has some posts that ask questions both to the Christian People's Party and the Left, it amazes me a little. That they did not get it in their own period of time, you have to give some reflections about this. In addition, they have programmed the reform, so I am calling for the enthusiasm that must lie in it. In addition, one will not go in for a certain number, but it is quite obvious that tasks will be moved to the extent that the number is low enough. It is quite obvious and at least quite elementary organisational knowledge. As far as the expert committee is concerned, I'm sure that if we hadn't agreed to have expert committees, it would have been the criticism. And then they said, "Where does it get to be, where does it get to be, where does it get to be, and where does it get to be? When the expert committee is criticised, and when you have received as many tasks as you can now get to the expert committee to investigate, I would rather call for this page from the Workers' Party and SV. SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party, who will now act so quickly, had eight years and could act many times – without that having happened. Rather, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have had a good cooperation with the government on matters such as the Workers' Party and SV stand here and say they are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2557	The representative Geir Tuskedal had many good and important reflections. Anyone who has worked with major reforms, not least reforms that also involve structure, knows that it is demanding. The easiest thing about it is to lean back and criticize. I want to end this debate by inviting people to work together, because now many state politicians from all parties in all parts of the country are going to do a great and important job. I've seen what it's called for by state politicians in the North Trøndelag and the South Trøndelag. As a State Council, I have been a partner, a co-operator, with the state politicians in the north and south to facilitate a conclusion that they themselves have wanted, among other things. that they assigned the county office to the Nord-Trøndelag. I believe it is important that we, as national politicians, act as partners for those who work locally and regionally. We have a common responsibility to do that when state policies are about to begin the regional reform. Of course, we should discuss tasks, of course we should discuss how much, how fast, but I believe that we also have a responsibility to give security to those politicians – from north to south, from east to west – who are going to do this important work. So I hope that all parties, not least the Workers' Party, see that here you have a responsibility to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2566	Finally, I should like to make a brief comment that there were well-known people who deprived the counties of their responsibility for health – as it was brought on the track. So I think that even if someone promotes 14 points – one of which includes healthcare companies, and there's no doubt that some of us would have liked it to be possible – 18 county municipalities are definitely not possible. It's not possible to do that with today's structure. If that's going to be possible at all, you have to have some structural adjustments. I hear from this pulpit that structure is the centre party at least not willing to talk about. In the further journey on regional reform, I hope and am positive – I have not been in the mosquito field in Eastfold – that the Workers' Party will come to trial, because I see the Workers' Party as positive to the reform. I hope that the Workers' Party will be involved and contribute to this. I clearly see that the Labour Party and the majority initially agree on the matter, that this is important to get in place. That invitation I give, because I see from my state and my future region, Trendelag, that the Workers' Party has been at the top. I really hope that the Workers' Party can have that opportunity on a country level too, by then we can move on, because this is a very good start to that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2575	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 9 and 10 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2604	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from a member of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2611	It is a pleasure for me today to present the Committee's position on a proposal to merge Nord-Trøndelag and South-Trøndelag to Trøndelag. I would also like to thank the committee for its work on this matter. The Proposition proposes that the Trøndelag County should operate from 1 January 2018, and the proposal is in line with the application of the Nord-Trøndelag and the South-Trøndelag County Municipality of 27 April 2016 for aggregation to the Trøndelag County. I think it is important to say on such a historic day that a merger would not have been possible if not a majority in this Chamber had thought that we would still have three elected levels in Norway. The left is very pleased with it, and has once again clarified it by dealing with the regional message. The county councils of Nord-Trøndelag and Sør-Trøndelag decided in October 2014 to launch a joint investigation on the collection of the Trøndelags. The Committee points out that the government has invited all the counties of the country to a neighbouring speech in the context of the forthcoming regional reform. The majority of the Committee welcomes the fact that the Trondelags counties, as the first new region, are paving the way for the forthcoming regional reform. The Committee refers to the hearing, where 8 out of 23 municipalities in the Nord-Trøndelag and all 23 municipalities in the South-Trøndelag were positive for aggregation. In Nord-Trøndelag, only two municipalities were negative, while three were conditionally negative. The Committee also points out that several state authorities are positive in terms of aggregation, while none are negative in terms of aggregation. Furthermore, the Committee points out that both counties decided to conduct a population study. The result showed that a majority of the population in both counties was in favour of a merger. Furthermore, the Committee refers to the proposition, which proposes that, as a starting point, the State will facilitate the provision of additional costs for county mergers, as the Stortinget has also provided the basis for the municipal reform. The Committee also points out that in the case of Nord-Trøndelag and Süd-Trøndelag, following the proposed model, it will trigger State payments of 30 million. kr. The Committee points out that any change in the electoral district of major elections must be promoted through amendments to the Constitution. The majority of the Committee points out that the Nord-Trøndelag and the South-Trøndelag have carried out a good and involved process. One would also point out that the intention plan for bringing together the Trondelags states the following: ‘The counties agree to work towards the headquarters of the county office in a merged region in Steinkjer.’ Furthermore, it should be noted that the Government has decided that the county councils of the North and South Trøndelags will be merged into one office from 1 January 2018. The Committee has noted that both Steinkjer and Trondheim are maintained as sites for the combined county office, with the headquarters of Steinkjer, and that this will mean that the new County has its headquarters in Steinkjer with the functions necessary to perform the role of county council. This is a day of joy. The left has believed that the new Trøndelags region will be a force for the development of the region. I wish everyone good luck on the road. It's not going to come from the fact that one day like this, many of us have in tround layers, from multiple parties, excited for. The left in the trøndelag has for a long, long time been clear that this has been the right way to go. In Trøndelag we have a common identity, we have a common story, and not least we see that we have agreed on this, that this creates opportunities. This creates opportunities that we've barely seen before. This has been over-mature, and not least I think it will also create the very identity feeling that I have as a trouser. I have to say that after 200 years of separation, we are finally in charge, the whole trombone team, and it is almost so that we should have had our own congratulations ceremony today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2654	A trombone layer. "The world is beautiful, she, only you can see her from the right edge," writes Olav Duun, the author of Jøa in Namdalen. The county of Trondheim was established in 1687 and was a political division that covered the geographical area we today know as the Trøndelag. In 1804 the county was divided into the county of Søndre and Nordre Trondhjem, and from 1919 they were called South Trondelag and North Trundelag County. No consultation was conducted, no investigation, no population survey, no referendum demands, no democratic process, but a change in the King's administrative division to make the King's work of steering from above and down simpler. Trøndelag means ‘the legal area of the barrels’. Drums may otherwise mean ‘the one that thrives’ or ‘the one that rears pigs’. For the former, it must have been quite a coincidence. Today, tround layers are so incredibly much more than pig breeding and well-being. In fact, today there are drones that have never eaten or will never eat pigs. Dream layers are home to trophies from different countries and from different parts of the country – a region that is small in population, compared to the largest regions in Europe, but which can be among the best, and not just in the ski tracks, in the Champions League or at the Nobel Assembly, if the large resources are coordinated and mobilised. There are ambitions that form the basis of the trouser initiative to reassemble after being forcibly separated by the Danish king. Today, we're choking the myth of slow thugs. They're in the airspark first. The Trondelags have had closer cooperation for many years than the other two counties in our country. Now going together was the right next step. The Labour Party in Trøndelag, which has been at the forefront of development, believes this, and the Labour Party in Stortinget ends up all over the world today – before the regional reform is launched, and while the municipal reform is continuing. This does not happen, of course, because it has not been counter-representation, but because the counter-representations have been a living part of the debate and the Trondelags have negotiated as equivalent parties, not as large and small. Here you can find learning that can be transferred to the other people who are now going to start. The smallest party must be seen and heard, and important functions must be shared in order to create a new community. Now it is possible to continue to find an officeist from Steinkjer, who is singing about DDE in the monster heat «Vinsjan på Kaia», for the County Government has placed the main seat in Steinkjer, the old county capital. A new popular region will build on all the tranny resources, for what has made Norway unique, is that we've managed to combine amazing knowledge environments in the big cities with being a commodity nation. If we're still going to do that, we need to strengthen the string between new knowledge and the processing of raw materials and natural resources. Driving regional development based on a commodity-rich surrounding and oatmeal and a Nobel Prize-winning university city and several small towns is almost a dream. You have to be drums to believe it. The future of the trouser layers is development, creativity and, not least, cooperation at very many levels – economic, cultural and knowledgeable. A good society for the people who live in Trøndelag. Something to live off and something to live for. It is the human beings, all those who live and work in Dream Teams, who are the most important resource. Now it grows together, what belongs together. Oh, trøndelag, you're wasting your time!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2669	It's said about the trouser that he's impulsive, only he gets to think about. When the Trondelags first decided, it also went away. Today's decision to merge the Trondelags is important for Trøndelag, but it is also important in a wider perspective. Getting stronger regions in the previous case is something we want for our country because – if we get functional and good regions with important tasks – it can contribute to a better balanced development in Norway. Not least, Trondelag is a brilliant example for all the other states, who now have the ball, and who are going to start working on finding together. The county council is a popularly elected level that has worn away with legitimacy and has lived for many years with an uncertain future, but which, with today's treatment in the previous one and this case, can bring increased vitality and relevance in the form of new regions. If a regional level is to have the power to be a social developer and a proper service provider, it needs to change. It's taken the consequences of that. The right acknowledges that there is a majority in this room for three elected levels, but we are also concerned that the public sector as a whole should be appropriate tools for citizens and for business and promote positive social development. But then, too, the regional level must be reformed, and so the Trendelags go ahead. Now the county councils have the ball. I also hope that the other county councils will come back with sensible, agreed proposals for breakdown. Many look to Trondelag for how to achieve a good process and a good debate – and debate does not mean one-sidedness, debate means different positions that are conflicted with one another – but also how to achieve balanced development within a new region. Because it has been, as others have pointed out, that it has been important which functions are allocated to different parts of a new region. You get a balanced development in a new and larger region. I want to congratulate Trøndelag on the process. You go together as a new region from 1 January 2018. In a debate yesterday, we discussed legislative amendments to the law on division, where the Workers' Party voted against including in the law access to make these kind of mergers without first having extraordinary elections. In this case, it is gratifying that the Storting is prepared to accept the process that Trondelag has wanted, which means that the two county councils and the county council of Nord-Trøndelag join together in a common denominator without having to make an extraordinary choice first. However, I still have the advantage of clarifying what the Workers' Party has really meant and believes about this issue, since it was a little unclear when we dealt with the division law yesterday. But it's a happy day. In the previous case, we have decided in practice that the number of counties should be halved. We want ten regions. In connection with the evening's later voting, I think it's going to take about – perhaps under – two minutes from the Grand Council's adoption of ten regions, until we've met the Trondelags' request to merge. There must be a world record in the follow-up to decision-making. After evening it shall be difficult to maintain the myth of the slow trouser.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2686	It's like when it's moving in Trondelag, we're going to follow it in Rogaland. I'll be glad to say some words. It is very special that after 200 years and the King's decision in Copenhagen, we have to merge Nord-Trøndelag and Süd-Trøndelag. It is really a big thing, and it is entirely in line with the objectives of regional reform, and it is in line with the wishes of the Christian People's Party. From now on, we can start entering school that there are 18 counties, and then we'll see if we get down to 10, and maybe below that. I want to bring forward what the North and South Tribe teams agreed on in a common goal for the process. They agreed in good time that the objective is a region of vitality, sustainability and competitiveness. In order to succeed, it is essential to further develop the elected regional level by streamlining and strengthening the administration by merging the county municipalities. Such strengthening will also improve the capacity of county councils to undertake new tasks. That's how Trondelag has a rich story. There's a lot of common identity there, even though there's a lot of tensions also in Trøndelag, but it seems to me to be a legitimate size, and it's an interesting process we've been witnessing. I'm glad I've been attending county annual meetings in my party in Trøndelag for a few years now, and they're organizing parts of the annual meetings together. I am pleased that my party has contributed to this process. That is why I would like to congratulate both the South and North Trondelags on the assembly of the county and thank them for showing their way to other counties. The Christian People's Party supports the Committee's overall proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2699	For those who are thunders themselves, it has been nice to attend this historic event of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. The county councils of Nord-Trøndelag and Sør-Trøndelag took the initiative to launch a joint process on county reunification as early as October 2014, i.e. before the department asked for such processes to be initiated around all the counties of the country. This is an initiative that has come at the highest level locally. The majority of the population, all except the Right Party and the Advance Party, said in the setting of the Municipal Proposition for 2015 that there is a need for popular governance at regional level in Norway, and that any changes in the county structure, like changes in the municipal structure, must be based on local wishes. It has been used by the two Trundel Teams for their processes, which today culminates in a decision to establish a new County Municipality, Trundel Team. Rapid treatment in Stortinget allows the trombone layer counties to start the work of building a new trombone layer. The Central Party believes that the application from the Nord-Trøndelag and the South-Trøndelag for aggregation should be met. It's a voluntary aggregation based on local desires and locally controlled processes, as we in the Center Party believe issues of community or county merger should be. However, we have some comments on the process chosen by the Trondelags and on the follow-up to the merger decision. The provisions of the law of division concerning civic participation relate to community mergers and not to supplementary mergers. Nevertheless, the Centre Party believes that the aggregation of two counties affects the population so much and has so extensive consequences that there is a need to hear the people on such issues. We therefore believe that the merger process between the Trondelags would have served with real involvement of the inhabitants through referendums in the two states, but that was not the case. Information meetings or different forms of opinion polling cannot replace the invitation for direct participation by a referendum. The new Tribute state becomes the second largest state in the country's territory. For the centre party, it is important that aggregation should have as much positive and as much negative impacts as possible on settlement and activity in all parts of the region. We know from experience that community mergers seem centralizing, and the same can be the case with merging states if you don't have the attention to prevent it. Therefore, it is in my opinion positive that the cooperation agreement between the two states suggests that Steinkjer will have a central place as the administrative centre for the new county municipality. The Committee, in its position on the Government's decision to merge the county councils of Nord-Trøndelag and Süd-Trøndelag from 2018 onwards and that Steinkjer should be the seat of the head office. For the Central Party, it is important that these two decisions to secure Steinkjer's place as an administrative centre are followed up. The majority of the county and county administrations must be added to Steinkjer in order to ensure a good regional balance in the new county. There will be a number of practical consequences of merger decisions. The ministry says it will come back to Stortinget with their follow-up. One of the most difficult questions is the impact of consolidation on the Constitutional Treaty provisions on 19 electoral districts with one equalisation mandate on each state. The merger will also have implications for the electoral law's provisions on voting rights. The Ministry says it will facilitate the promotion of a proposal for changes in the electoral law in good time before the default election in 2021. Amendments to the provisions of the Basic Law could only be made effective from the default of 2025. The centre party will not foreshadow the consequences of supplementary aggregation for changes in the number of electoral districts in decision-making. This will have significant consequences that need to be considered in depth and where the need to maintain good regional representation must weigh heavily. While it may make sense for the electoral district to follow new county boundaries, it is also fully possible to maintain today's 19 electoral districts even if the number of counties is reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2727	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Trondelag. They have taken an initiative maritime. There have been different opinions in both states, perhaps mostly in the north, but there has been agreement on aggregation – on a voluntary basis, no state coercion and whipping. Therefore, SV will of course support such a decision, which has been taken locally. There have been different opinions. In Nord-Trøndelag, there has been a big case and a struggle to get a referendum on this. SV was a strong supporter of it. You should, in our opinion, have asked the people for advice. It was not, and a decision was taken that is unambiguous. It is then followed up and has now taken very strong initiatives locally – and is also working well with cooperation across party boundaries. The representative Skelstad and several others have been up here and talked very strongly about the identity as a trouser. I think that's important in this case. Most of us understand what a trouper is. If we go around the rest of the country and see, it's probably like someone is a northerner, someone is a finnmarker. So I guess there's someone who's rogalending. In my own state, almost no one is “heathmarking” – they are pagan marks. That means you live along Mjösa, or you're a North-Easter beer, or you're a gleaming beer. It means that there are very different countries across how strong the identity associated with the country or state is. That's one of the reasons why I feel that you have to be responsive to such local identities when you're making regions. If you are not, you must have heavy tasks that can be legitimized – if you do not have this identity. I come from the area of the country that is now called inland. None of us call themselves a resident – it had to be the opposite of a foreigner, then, and it makes no sense. Here there are slightly different sites in the different parts of the country — and also very different transport years and continuous work and housing regions or very much local contact on a different basis. So there's a little bit different starting point for the different parts of our country. So to this with electoral districts. In the case of regional reform, SV has a proposal – and the Senterpartiet has joined it – that a NOU should, we believe, be made, so a major investigation is being made about this. It is easy to conclude that there should be electoral districts with elected representatives who correspond to local regions. It's a little strange to have to choose people for the Biggest from some units that don't exist anymore. At the same time, this is a constitutional matter. And it is a very fine system, where regional and regional policy considerations have also been taken into account in the composition of the number of mandates for the Grand Duchy. It is easy to imagine that with these grips you can experience an even stronger type of centralization, and that the big, heavy centralization trends are reinforced by the fact that you get a choice system that reinforces it even more, and that makes this talk about equally good services, good opportunities and opportunities to live throughout the country become more talkative than reality. Finally, I would like to comment that it was said – I have not noticed who was up here and said it – that in the previous case ten regions have been adopted. There is no such proposal for a decision on the table today. It is a premise for what the majority believes, but there is no proposal for a decision on it today. If it is to be adopted at Stortinget, it must be presented as an explicit proposal and then it must be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2751	I would also like to join in the congratulations to Trøndelag. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate forward-looking state politicians from the north and the south, from several parties, who have worked out today's decisions. This merger will be the first step in a regional reform desired by the Stortinget. It is therefore positive to see that the Stortinge supports the proposal to merge an overall trombone layer. This also indicates that the regional reform is under way and that the current state structure, which has remained unchanged since the mid-19th century, is now changing. We can now have the first change in the state structure since Bergen was incorporated into Hordaland in 1972. The Government believes that a comprehensive Tribute supports important reasons for reforming the regional structure. A Trøndelag is a whole region. Dream layers include larger and smaller cities, rural and districts and a varied business life. Compared to today, a collective Dream Team will have more opportunities. Of course, there will also be more challenges in a larger state. There will be more citizens, more concerns to take and more diversity of interests. The people elected at the state level in Trøndelag have been aware of this. Nevertheless, they have chosen to focus on the possibilities that an overall Tree Layer could provide. They have shown political leadership and made a great effort to achieve a unified Trøndelag. I notice that some parties believe that the inhabitants have not been heard well enough. In my opinion, the population has been involved in several arenas in both counties, both through public meetings and community surveys. The counties believe that they have had good involvement with their inhabitants, and then I believe that the Storting and the government should respect it. In the proposition, we're sketching some of the consequences of merging the trombone layers, especially, and general state. It is positive that Stortinget supports our proposal for a standardised one-off cost model. This is a simplification both for the counties concerned and for the state. Nord-Trøndelag and South-Trøndelag will receive 30 million. kr for the work on aggregation. A pooling will have implications for the framework transfers through the income system. I assume that the County of Trendelage will not lose weight in joining forces, and I therefore recommend that the new county municipality be compensated for the net losses that may be linked to the merger. The revenue system should be reviewed at regular intervals, and we therefore point out that a revision around 2020 would be desirable. A broad regional reform also requires a review of the income system, but regardless of the outcome of the regional reform, around 2020 there is a need for a revision. Changes in the county structure will also affect the implementation of enlargement choices, as the counties are choice districts of decision-making. In the proposition, we have pointed out a number of different issues, and I will come back to Stortinget with an assessment and possibly necessary legislative changes at a later stage. The counties are named in the Law on the Change of Kingdom Names. We are therefore proposing a legislative amendment in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2770	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2774	‘It’s the one that comes to the sea – Smell you lightly like a coil’, Smells Vømmöl Spellmannslag. But they also sing: "But together, we weigh several tons, with a little help, it makes a little bit of a monk." Governments have really contributed little help in this process. Now the Council of State in the previous case was accused of being a cabinet-regionalist. I think the government councils are cabinet-runners, like so many others in this country. I would like to ask the Council of State what he thinks the success criteria were in the Trøndelag process and how to learn from this when the other county councils are going to start to judge the regional reform, for which the Council of State and the majority parties have previously laid down the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2783	Thank you for your words. I think maybe one of the most important lessons you can learn from the Trondelag process is that politicians from different parties and from two states have been liberal to each other. I think it's a prerequisite that this isn't about a struggle between cities and districts, between north and south, but about what we can get together that we can't get to each other. The second thing I think is important is that you've been busy getting a good regional balance, that this isn't about Trondheim getting bigger and stronger, but getting a good regional balance in a new region. That was also the background for me to make it clear that the main seat for the new county is to be in Steinkjer. I think a regional balance is an important success criterion to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2790	Let me follow up where the previous colleague left off, congratulating the Council of State on the well-worked work and good cooperation with the Trondelags Countys or Trøndelags. This will be the first step in the next regional reform, and it will bring me to something of the most interesting: the strengthened possibilities of the Trondelag, which was also addressed by the Council of State. Is there any task, opportunity, or thing that the Council of State wants to test out in Trøndelag, which he sees for itself is natural that the Trondelag will be tried first in this reform, which will now go over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2797	It's true that tround layers now go ahead. I have had close dialogue with the central politicians over time. I know they're also interested in getting a pilot project, and we have a dialogue about it. But it won't be natural to signal from Stortingen's pulpit. These are questions that first have to be considered in a thorough and good professional judgement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2802	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2807	We're all individuals. But ‘when it turns out to be the worst on the top and when the madness gets raw’ – then we gather. Like then King Olav, or Olav the Holy One, came to Trondelag – then we stood together. Or when the Swedish king tried, or when Petter Northug and Marit Bjørgen go for gold in the East Dream Team, better known as Falun – then we stand together. In trombone layers, there are absolutely amazing possibilities for five things. One is education. The new region Trondelag will be the first – or region, if one will – to have two universities. It must also take account of the tasks and opportunities of the Government and the Council of State. Today, 15 000 people work in the technology-oriented sector in Trondheim, associated with NTNU, where many of the companies and start-up companies have come outright, with commercialisation and successful projects. If we're going to be able to create equally productive jobs in what we call conversions, or the green shift, if we want to, we need a huge investment in new NTNU, at the Ocean Space Centre, we need a research environment that is strong around HUNT and around the Levanger environment in health, so we can find new antibiotics against the resistant bacteria, which is one of the biggest challenges we see today. In addition, the power within the world's food barrel is changing. It's turning northwards, and it's turning towards Trendelag. The new region needs to get economic muscles to be involved and create jobs in this transition, but also take advantage of all the amazing opportunities that need to be linked, and where we need to see the tools in one whole, from education, from the world's most amazing youth, which we have in this beautiful country and in Trøndelag, and all the way to those who are already operating today, to Hitra, to Rørosmat, to Oppdal, and we have Frosta. We also have the world's best marine resources. The ‘tracked in sand’ and the ‘written words in vain’. The county rapporteur and the head of the county council have really gone ahead and proved it once and for all, as the representative Frank J. Jenssen said, that the drones are slow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2818	I am proud today as a troupe, former county councillor and among the initiators of the Trondelags process. Trøndelag, the region of common language, culture and identity, shall finally be reunited into one kingdom. I am proud because we have done what many think was impossible, possible, and because Trondelag is leading as a pioneer region. We have initiated and guided the processes ourselves and made the decision to go together, and through that we are paving the way for other parts of the country. So the drums show that we're still not as slow as many people might want it to. If you take Tree layers out of the history books, it'll just be the permen again," said Jon Leirfall in his time. And it's written national history today, with troubling layers in the lead. The counties are among the oldest state structures -- let's call it that -- we have here to land. Trøndelag had back in the 500s one of the country's first representative governance structures, Frostatinget, and Trøndelag is actually the only country that has the word law in its name. The county of the old Trondheim, which was established in 1687 after the introduction of the monarchy, was divided for governance purposes into two in 1804. The border between the county of Nordre and Søndre Trondhjem was pulled up after what was the year of the voyage at that time, namely the sea. The boundary between Nord-Trøndelag and Süd-Trøndelag so that we trodden gradually became irrelevant and hindered good solutions and development. County means collection – about what matters most. For the trouper was and is also a question of power and influence. The trouper is an ancient fighting soul, not least a counterpower human being. There are strong political cultures in Trøndelag that still reflect it. Now we're going to build the new Trøndelag, take advantage of the possibilities. The main objective of the reform from the perspective of the trouser is to provide better services, provide competitiveness to industry, ensure future growth and development in the county and build a strong regional partnership to strengthen the region’s position and influence nationally. However, there is an important expectation in Trøndelag that government and the Storting will now spread political and administrative power and authority to the new elected regional level, to a region that will have competence and capacity to take on more tasks in the future. I would particularly like to thank the Council of State for its positive contribution and for decisions that have been absolutely necessary to get where we are today. In particular, I would like to stress that the first Joint Counties of Trøndelag in over 200 years will have its seat in the new administration centre for Trøndelag in Steinkjer, a decision that became a myth of regional reform as a centralisation reform, where the government shows in practice the will and ability to spread power and competence – an important prerequisite for creating a balanced development across the region. On this historic day, my call is: «look two trøndelag» – and do as we do!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2837	Today is probably a brand day in Turkish history. The trombones have a common history and culture. I think there are few who notice significantly the state border when they drive the E6 from Trondheim to Stjørdal. Trondheim Airport, Værnes, is located in Nord-Trøndelag. Trondheim is the engine of the nesting and working region Trondheim, and we see that the largest population growth is found on the axis Orkanger – Stjørdal. We glory at Rosenborg and experience that the ski World Cup and the Olympics, for that matter, have in practice been troubling championships. Vømmel, DDE and Åge are Turkish artists. Our games and festivals clearly show that culture and historical events have been characterized by the fact that we have been one region in practice for hundreds of years. The objective of bringing together the counties is to facilitate a region with vitality, sustainability and competitiveness. Dream layers have rich natural resources, and millions of salmon meals are exported from our coast. The forest is the second largest export industry, and the tranny farmers produce a large proportion of the food we eat here in the country. We have rich traditions in the industry. Norway's fighter base is now being built in Ørland, and Europe's largest wind farm is being built in Åfjord. Our knowledge and research environments in Trondheim are world leaders in important areas such as: environmental technology. We say that the future is created in Trøndelag, and we believe that we have good coverage for that statement. We have faith that a unified Trondheim team will help even more of our companies benefit from the Trondheim environment, and that research and development and business cooperation will be even better. We have faith that a common Tribute team will be able to provide better services to its citizens and businesses and make the regions stronger from a national perspective. We're getting a clear center of gravity in Middle Norway. It will be important to attract new citizens and businesses, and the voice against national authorities will become clearer. Good infrastructure with good roads and good collective provision will in many ways become crucial in order to achieve the objectives we set ourselves in bringing together the counties. We have to dare to admit that the proximity to Trondheim will be important. Therefore, the new E6, a repaired railway, asphalt on the county roads and a new freight terminal will be extremely important for the region. I was so lucky to follow the process of bringing together the Trondelags close from the very beginning of 2004 to the present day, in the form of state policies and now big business policies. There is a great reason to thank a cooperative and offensive municipal minister, who has constantly supported the political environment in Trøndelag in order for processes to move quickly and smoothly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2852	Today we congratulate each other on the day, and Ingvild Kjerkol made Willy Brandt's words ours when she said: Today it grows together, what belongs together. That's a good picture of what's going on. Then, in the debate, we have spent a lot of time boasting of forward-looking state politicians in both the North and South Tronde teams that have shown leadership. I guess it's deserved. Now it's up to the government and the Stortinge to show the same leadership, because Trondelag is rigged for bigger tasks. I think I agree with the representative Stein Erik Lauvås, who, in the change of lines, challenged the Council of State, Sanner, that the unforeseeable signals of the government to the local government in the area of municipal reform must bear much of the blame for the fact that so few municipalities have now found it reasonable or tempting to join forces. Now it's important that not the same thing happens in county municipalities across the whole country. I therefore believe that it is quite essential that we now get good experience from the merger of the North and South Tribe teams. When state politicians and citizens take responsibility, as the crowds have now done, and show their way, there is a clear expectation of new tasks. A political craft has been carried out by the rare because we are where we are today in the case of Dream Teams. We know how demanding it has been. In addition to the fact that Turkish state politicians show the way, I believe that even troth teams and the story of how this goes will show the way for other states. If it's a success, more people will see the good sides of aggregation. I think these may be processes that we must also be prepared to take many years. We've also seen that in other countries. In some European countries, no more tasks have been assigned to the regions as a result of parliamentary outbursts, but after a hard fight over many years. Therefore, there is a responsibility for all parties in the Stortinget to help keep the debate warm and that the process of multiple tasks can continue in the future. The best way to predict the future is to create it. That's what the drones have taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2869	I will promise not to withdraw the debate further than necessary. My tribute should also come – just take it easy. I would first like to say that in the debate in the previous case, about the regional announcement, Left André Skjelstad said something like that was a level he was very excited about. I can confirm that I am not as excited as the representative Skkelstad. I'd rather have wished that today we could have made a decision in Stortinget that had said that we had brought down the county council, the regional level. I record that the bulk of the population does not want it, at least not yet correctly. In small Norway, there had been more than enough two levels — the state and fewer, but stronger municipalities — when local democracy could really have flourished. Nevertheless, when the situation in the Storting is as it is, this is the second best solution. Regions are better than today's counties. Dream layers, as we trodder called the area, regardless of whether or not to adopt a county merger today, are a fantastic area. It's in many ways a Norway in miniature, a mini-Norway. We have mountains and fjords, we have cities and countries that go hand in hand, we have agriculture, we have fishing and farming, and we have strong public businesses and one of the country's strongest knowledge clusters in Trondheim. The criticism of Trøndelag in the past, at least politically, has been that cooperation between the states has been too poor. It has been too poorly coordinated in political processes against the big brother state, and it has therefore been lost in the fight against other states. As I said, I am conditionally in favour of today's decision. However, I am uncertain whether the decision will correct the criticism of the states and which the states have also addressed themselves. The two old counties have agreed to make the table they were supposed to sit around in common into a table 12 miles between each table: one end in Trondheim, where the region rapporteur will sit, and the other end in Steinkjer, where the regional councillor will sit. I'm not sure how much more coordinated it will be. I think it's legitimate to be concerned about the Oslo power, I've been for a long time, but you don't fight down the Oslo power by weakening the power and power center in the region. But it is not a consequence of the decisions we are making here today in the United Kingdom; there are consequences that state politicians in the North and South Trondelag must take on their cloak.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2884	I thought it was important that the Oslo bench also took the floor in this debate, so now comes the Oslo power. Trøndelag is not only historically an important region, which also spreads people out on other benches in this room, it is also known that Norway's history would have been a rather short epistle if it hadn't been for Tøndelag's position in it. There is also another important reform in Norway, bringing together the Trondelags. Unlike the representative, Bjørnstad, I want to have three levels. Had not the Left been with and fixed it even during this ageing period, this reform had not started. Then the aggregations we see now had not been good either. Olav Duun said, "The world is beautiful to her, only you see her from the right edge." If you see this process from the liberal side, this is what we are now starting, a good start to that regional reform. It's been a good process. Another Dun-quote is, "Mountain, they're right where they are. They know where they belong." It's probably not a big change that really happens in the tranny identity of this merger. But to me, as inside the tranny identity is also tamming, I believe this is the great chance of Namdalen. I want to symbolize it with the fights that Namdalen has tried to fight in a state that is really too weak to cope with the big stakes. Now I think that Namdalen has a lot of possibilities to be part of a larger layer. Now Namdalen has the opportunity to develop his Namdal identity inside Trundellag, and now you have the opportunity to be on a larger engine called Trondheim. There has been an attitude, especially in the Nord-Trøndelag, that it is sometimes important to link to those who are struggling and having it difficult, in order to get more support and help. I think it is important to link to the engine in an environment – to make sure that you are actually involved in being pulled up when you want to develop something further. Here, Namdalen has a lot of chances now that was difficult when you were in a small state, which didn't have the power to lift the Namdalen. Now I expect Trondheim to join in raising Namdalen. I expect the university and research communities to be. I expect the business community to be. It's when we get to these connections, that we also get the opportunity to raise what's the outer edges of the states that they've now pulled up. This is a giant genius, and it's an opportunity that trundish identity can also develop very good living conditions for people in the two states ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2900	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 9-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2915	This case concerns the submission by the Ombudsman’s defence department of the activities from 1 January to 31. ==References== The Ombudsman’s defence title shall, following the instructions adopted by the Grand Duchy of Great Britain, contribute to ensuring the general human rights of the defence personnel. The activities of the Ombudsman shall also contribute to the effectiveness of defence. As part of the function of the Ombudsman, six inspections were carried out by the Ombudsman in 2015 at the following facilities: KNM Harald Haarfagre, Madla clay, Stavanger KNM Tordenskjold, Haakonsvern, Bergen NOR Mil Rep and MMB NATO Headquarters, Brussels, Belgium 138 Luftving, Ørland Main Aviation Station, Örland Air War School, Trondheim Defence Personnel and Security Service Centre, Hamar/Oslo The Committee has noted that the Ombudsman’s views in 2015 have been very positive. It is said to be well-managed with clear attitudes, a high level of willingness to work and mainly a good working environment. With regard to the follow-up to the five focus areas of last year, the Ombudsman notes positively that the defence has addressed some of the major deficiencies in property, construction and installations that were highlighted, among others. at the fire station at Bardufoss air station. A new building is now under construction. Another issue specifically reported in last year’s notification was the time-use of security clearances. The Committee points out that the length of the procedure with security clearances has been a repetition of the Ombudsman’s report on the activities of the defence. The Committee is pleased that the process is now falling due to strengthened human resources, new procedural tools and a new trial system for first-time service providers. The Committee has also noted that the Ombudsman feels that the introduction of a general duty of protection for both sexes has been well received and that the work on adapting equipment and accommodation is well under way, which is a very good record. The Committee refers to the comments made on document 5 of last year in the Innst. 288 S for 2014–2015, and is very pleased that the Ministry of Defence and Defence have taken this seriously. It is also gratifying to see that there has been a continuous improvement over time in the areas for which the Ombudsman is responsible. This must be seen as good work. I would also like to refer to the Committee's comments and recommend the unanimous vote of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2953	I agree with the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. I take the floor to underline something that he also mentioned, which the Ombudsman for Defence and also the Committee has been particularly concerned about, and that is the time spent on security clearance. It is very gratifying that it has now fallen, and that action has been taken that seems to work. What cannot be measured is the Ombudsman’s own role in advancing this process. Something tells me it's not insignificant, and it's worth mentioning from this pulpit. It is tempting when the Annual Report is ahead of us, to use a complete article on how happy it is that the Ombudsman states that the introduction of the general duty of protection for both sexes has been well received in the Defence Department, and that the work on adapting equipment and accommodation is well under way, but I will not do that. On the other hand, what I want to point out is the role of the Ombudsman, which we cannot measure and weigh, for his own sake. In 2015, the Ombudsman dealt with 26 registered cases by data subjects. They have been formally dealt with and are well described in the report. But what I want to draw out is the evidence that the Ombudsman is functioning and playing its role on some of the things that may be most important, that is, on the informal arena. For, in addition to the formally registered complaints cases, a number of enquiries have been dealt with in which the Ombudsman’s office has provided advice, guidance and helped to resolve ongoing cases informally. This is not achieved unless you have a high degree of professionalism and trust that makes you feel that the Ombudsman is actually an Ombudsman, someone you can go to, someone who has both a mandate and an opportunity to resolve matters on an ongoing basis, as they appear. I wanted to use the opportunity to praise the Ombudsman from the Parliament's pulpit and say that this shows that that role is being filled exactly as it should, and that is very safe and joyous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2964	The defense is in transition. The defense has been in place for a long time, and several major conversion processes are being carried out simultaneously. The Ombudsman’s report conveys the impression that this is perceived as challenging and tiring for many. It's understandable; conversion wears on an organization. At the same time, the staff survey in 2015 provides many positive answers. The study has a high response rate, in fact over 70 pst., and there are many positive responses regarding job satisfaction, commitment and motivation. It's very joyful. The general impression of the Ombudsman is positive. There is a lot of good leadership and a lot of willingness to work, and the general impression is that there is a good working environment in Defence. Very high quality of vulnerable crews is reported. A short time ago, we had another case from the Control and Constitutional Committee to be dealt with here in this room where the defence's top management was strongly criticized. This applies to the disposal processes. In view of the negative attention that has become part of the Defence and Defence Executive Board in some recent times, it is particularly pleasant to read the Ombudsman’s report. I want to commend all those who contribute to creating a good job for military and civil servants at all levels. In the case of the employee survey in 2015, as I said, it provides many positive answers. At the same time, the incidence of unwanted sexual attention as well as irritation and plagiarism appears to have increased somewhat in 2015. The study notes that the focus is on this and that measures are being developed. But I want to stress the importance of taking this seriously. Unwanted sexual attention must be combated by ongoing and continuous work. More generally, I would like to point out the importance of the active use of this employee survey and that its findings are taken seriously. These studies provide an important basis for improving the conditions requiring additional action. It points out that the Trusteeship Facility is an important partner for the Ombudsman’s subject matter. It is a pleasure to read how impressive one is above the level of the Trustee System, and that this is a well-functioning system that actually makes an important difference. An important matter for the serving soldiers is properly adapted to clothing and equipment. This has been one of the recordings of the Trustees' Order. Equipment that suits the individual does not only make the working day of the soldier better, but it can also be absolutely essential that the mission of the soldier is set to solve, be solved in a good way. In some places there is a critical deficit when it comes to extra large or extra small sizes. The trustees believe that the defence must either ensure that this equipment is available to the soldiers or, where appropriate, require that it be small or large in order to be able to serve. Trustees consider it particularly important to put in place proper equipment in advance of the large indentation of women who will receive the Defense in the summer. When the Defense is intended for the first time to summon women with duty to serve, they believe that the Defense, on its part, has obligations to provide the necessary equipment, adapted to the individual soldier. I fully agree with that. Then it should be said that there has been a great focus on clothing related to women in the Defense, and that is particularly topical now, but proper equipment and clothing must of course apply to all soldiers, regardless of gender. I think there is a thorough and intensive work to be done in the defence of this. Then it is important that sufficient resources are now prioritised for this in order to facilitate the presence of both sexes in Defence, and that we get the necessary equipment in place adapted to the individual soldier. So it's important to say that the general picture is that the introduction of universal protection obligations for both sexes has been well received, and that the work on adapting equipment and accommodation is well under way. Namely, this records as very good. Defence solves many challenges within given resource frameworks. However, the Committee questions whether additional resources should be made available in order to ensure a good start to the introduction of the general obligation of protection. Long processing times for security clearances, both compulsory and military and civilian, have been a problem over time. However, the report shows that the procedure for safety clearance is now falling. That is good, and it is positive that the denominator will continue to follow up this matter. The County Ombudsman for Defence has provided an informative report. The following gives a sober and highly relevant indication of the many challenges the defence is facing in a very demanding process of conversion. In this process, it is important to keep in mind the very nature of the report — a high level of job satisfaction, commitment and motivation is reported. The general impression is positive. Perhaps the role of the Ombudsman is more important than ever now — through the extensive change in defence processes. Many people experience constant changes as very demanding. There is reason to pay homage to the Ombudsman, and there is reason to give homage to all conscientious, military and civil servants, who make an important effort in the Defence and for our country every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e2992	I will first join in what all previous speakers have said about both the Ombudsman's subject, the report and the importance of the thorough report being delivered. Tuesday last week I was in Stavanger to attend the National Conference of the Trust Elections. It is former TMO that, in the context of the conference, changed the name of the Trust Elections Scheme – from the Trusts Council. They do so in the context of the introduction of a general duty of protection. I think it's a nice and sensible gesture that's a modernisation of the name. Long processing times in the clearance cases have been challenging both for the defence and for the individual, and in 2014, as the Committee is well-known, there was a particularly demanding situation due to errors and shortcomings in the introduction of the new Mimir procedure system. The Ombudsman’s subject and the Committee were rightly very critical of this development in the last year’s report. I shared this concern, and we also immediately put in action. I therefore informed the Stortinget of what measures were taken to reduce the length of proceedings to an acceptable level. Last year, the length of proceedings at the Defence Security Department and the National Safety Authority increased by more than 30 pst. Mimir was repaired, and procedures and procedures were changed so that the clearing process became more efficient. The last time we discussed this in the committee was in connection with the EOS Committee's annual report, and I therefore thought it was a good opportunity to give an update on the current state of play. Today, the procedure period is significantly reduced both by the Defence Security Department and by the National Safety Authority. The last report showed a high level of target achievement. For example, the Defence Security Department residue list has now been reduced by 65 pst. from the highest measurement last year. On 25 May this year it was approx. 2 600 ongoing cases against 4,464 in September 2015. 2 600 is considered a relatively low number because there will always be some residues in such a large system when they treat approx. 17 000 clearances per year. The national safety authority has reduced the average duration of proceedings in complaints by more than 60 pst, from 285 days on average in previous reporting to 117 days in the first tertiary 2016. In the case of the NSM clearance cases, the average duration of proceedings in the previous reporting period was 133.6 days, with the first tertiary being 82.9 days. I am well pleased that development continues to go the right way, but it is a work we are still going to follow closely from the department. I would also like to inform you that the future objective of the defence is to clarify the clearing issue before you meet for first-time service, and continue. The system was tested last year at the session center in Kjevik with good results. The aim is to establish equivalent procedures at all session centres. I am pleased that both the committee and the committee are following this work with interest. When I stood here a year ago, it was a historic year. On 1 January 2015, an important social reform was launched. The protection of the country's interests, values and territory now applies to all Norwegian citizens. There is now a common right and a common obligation to implement the protection obligation. 2016 is also a brand year, because this summer the first year school meets women under protection for the first time. But when that's said, I always remember, in all the congregations, that Norway has had women in service for decades. That means that a lot is already well organized so that there are also women who are inside and serving, but it needs to be done even more, because we can expect, if not a sudden rise, then at least an increase in the number of women who are both sheltered and also serving in Defense. I am pleased that the Ombudsman reports that the introduction of the general protection obligation has been well received. This is also reflected in the fact that a number of measures are being taken to address some of the main challenges. The work on equipment and accommodation adaptation is well under way. We've had women who have served in Defense for a long time, and in recent years a lot has been done to facilitate a more balanced gender balance. In conjunction with the Committee's comments on last year's Document 5, I note that the Committee is pleased that the Defence Service has taken the general duty of protection seriously. Extensive and targeted communication has been carried out against both guardians and parents. Furthermore, there has been a focus on equal treatment between women and men in the session process, and the proportion of women among guardians is also expected to increase from the summer. Of course, personal clothing and equipment must be adapted to both sexes, and the defence has therefore been working on improvements in the selection, quality and availability of equipment, and also assessed adjustments to framework agreements where necessary. Since 2011, there has been an increased commitment to improving living conditions for the soldiers. The standard of older building stock remains a challenge in some places. Therefore, the Defense has prioritised garrisons that need the most upgrade. A project is under way at Madla Camp, and plans have been made for the next few years at Ørland Main Aviation Station and in Huseby Camp. At the same time, the defence will continuously identify and assess the necessary needs related to lay-offs, sanitary conditions and other facilities. Both female and male soldiers should feel welcome and respected when they meet at their service. It affects recruitment, motivation and mastering. That is why work on further developing a leadership and soldier culture that is characterized by mutual respect, responsibility and cohesion is so important. I am therefore also very pleased that the Ombudsman points to the good attitudes they take when they are out and inspect different departments. The defense does very much good work in this area, and the work continues with full strength. Overall, the defence must be well prepared for such a comprehensive reform. I have clear expectations that the defense will facilitate well, even if not everything is in place right away. I also assume that the defense makes local adjustments and provides temporary solutions where there is a need for them. But the big picture is still very positive. We're in a situation where we can choose between the best fittest and most motivated from a year's coal. This year’s safety investigation shows that the defence is a very good impression of the need for protection throughout the year. The well-being is very high, and the environment is good. More than eight out of ten of those asked state that they thrive quite or very well. The study also shows that very many would choose the initial service if it had been voluntary. It's good to see that so many people want to contribute to something bigger than themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3020	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 12 and 13 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3049	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3056	After this long introduction, I will repeat what this case is about, the law on the conversion of the state enterprise Aerospace Industrial Maintenance Norway into a limited liability company and the decision on the change in state ownership. Let me first of all thank the Committee for good cooperation. It took us a little while to figure out that we really had the exact same goal. We were a little bit suspicious of each other before we could sit down and see what we wanted with AIM, and what the goal was long-term. So it's rare I come with a joyous outburst from this pulpit, I have to admit that, but this is actually a joy that the Storting should accept with great enthusiasm. We need more of these things. This could potentially mean dozens of new, technologically advanced jobs that could potentially be added to Rygge in Eastfold. It can't be that there are too many jobs in Eastfold, there are at least some who may need some jobs in Eastfold, and now they can get there. So it's a victory for this government, and not just negative about what's going on with the airline fees and other things. In concrete terms, the decision of the government to convert AIM from State enterprises to public limited liability companies is a matter of concern. It is a wise decision which, strangely enough, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are against. Fortunately, both the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party join the solution subsidiaryly. The public limited liability company AIM with a State holding of 50 p.m. will ensure that future maintenance of F-35 engines could be added to Norway. AIM will also be able to compete for maintenance of other countries’ F-35 engines. The transformation into a limited liability company is therefore forward-looking. The company entering the AIM owner’s page will necessarily need to invest in equipment that enables AIM to deliver competitive offers. Then we're talking about hundreds of millions of dollars, e.g. an engine bench, which is very advanced equipment. Such investments will be significant and there is no reason for this to be financed by taxpayers from the State budget. Private capital provides room for more flexible and commercial activities. It is a good example of public-private cooperation in practice, where there is private and public capital, while private companies come in with new solutions and competitiveness and make it possible to compete outside. That's something the state can't do, or it's done it before, but it hasn't been very successful. On 3 June, it was notified that AIM Norway purchased the Belgium Engine Center, an engine centre for the repair and maintenance of the F-100 engine, which is located in the fighter aircraft F-15 and F-16. This company is also well positioned to become the European engine centre for F-35. BEC is owned by Pratt & Whitney, one of the world's leading engine manufacturers. The purchase implies that AIM takes a large part of today’s market for the maintenance of fighter aircraft engines in 14 different countries. The company will then be in good position for future agreements. The conversion into a limited liability company takes over all the assets, rights and liabilities of the entity by the State entity AIM Norway, while the State acquires all the shares in the company. The decision Stortinget takes today, will allow the state to reduce its ownership to 50 pst. The State may also sell entirely out of the company, but it assumes that the purchaser already holds a State holding of at least 50 pst. A lot of people will think of this as a fixed invitation. It's not against me. In any case, any transaction will be made after negotiation. Maintenance of fighter aircraft engines may not sound very sexy, and many will perhaps accept the news with a large gasket. They shouldn't. The potential in the maintenance of fighter aircraft engines is significant. We're potentially talking about hundreds of jobs, further development of technological skills, and not least awareness that acquisitions have not only a cost side, which we tend to look at, but also a significant income side. In fact, the Norwegian defence industry exports 99 cents for every penny we spend on acquiring defence equipment. It is our responsibility to pass on this message that the defence industry is of great importance to Norway, important to jobs, important to competence, important to technology, important to districts, important to subcontractors, and important to Norway abroad. We have to take care of the defence industry. It must not be sold, but be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3079	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur, who has contributed to a very broad consensus on the matter of the future of AIM. I think that was important. The workshop is guaranteed competitiveness, there are framework conditions that hopefully ensure them in Norwegian hands – it was said that the case-rapporteur was absolutely sure of it – and the employees are secure. If the workshop remains in Norwegian hands, it is also important in an emergency context. In a crisis situation, we need workshops for the Defence that are under Norwegian control and preferably have Norwegian ownership. This is about the Air Force's main workshop at Kjeller. In 2012, the workshop was transformed into a state enterprise. The aim at that time was to contribute to ensuring a highly competent maintenance activity based in Norway, with all the prerequisites for taking on tasks related to central air defence equipment, even after the phase-out of F-16 and Sea King helicopters, probably around 2020. The workshop has had the primary responsibility for fighter aircraft and rescue helicopters, and the aim is that they should now have the primary responsibility for Joint Strike Fighter, or F-35, and that is exactly what the committee has been concerned about. Then I have to add that when the workshop was transformed into a state enterprise, it was served by the department that it did not in any way mean that they were ever to be converted into a share company. Let me also add that the transformation into state enterprises has contributed positively to the possibility for the workshop to compete for future maintenance tasks. As we know, the form of a State enterprise limits the decision-making authority of the board of directors on matters that are presumed to be essential for business purposes or that will change the nature of the business. This is important if you want state control of the business. The transformation into a State enterprise was a burden on employees. It's any reorganization, and we know that. Among other things, they had to: out of the tariff agreement they had, which also led to considerable uncertainty. I think it should be added that all the employee organisations at the hearing stated that the employees are tired of reorganization. We know that when the company goes into another organisational change, it will mean additional stress for the employees. Then there will be preparedness, as I have already mentioned – that it is important for Norwegian defence policy and Norwegian defence ability to maintain the competence and professional environment of AIM. It is important that the defence must also be in control of the AIM in the future, for security and defence policy reasons. Therefore, the Workers' Party does not initially support the proposal to convert Aerospace Industrial Maintenance Norway SF – as it is called – into a limited liability company. But we support it subsidiaryly. Subsidy, we can also go in for limited liability companies, on very important and important premises, and that is where I will praise the case rapporteur for the way he has met us, and the way he has contributed to the broad consensus. In order to ensure that the high-tech competence currently in the company remains in Norway – also for safety and preparedness reasons – we believe that the State holding must not be less than 50 pst. This can be ensured either in the form of an autonomous holding in the country or through consolidation with a company with a large State holding. I am therefore pleased with the conclusion we have reached. We believe this will ensure jobs with a high level of competence in the East – at Kjeller and at Rygge. In the end, it is very important for us to point out that new owners will provide new rounds of reorganisation and uncertainty, and that employees should be guaranteed their rights and pension plans in the State enterprise when it is transformed into a limited liability company. It also applies to the contract for a closed, professional pension scheme in the State pension fund for employees of the company before the transformation into a state enterprise. As I said, I am pleased that we in the Committee have very clear comments on these points.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3100	As the rapporteur has thoroughly explained, this case concerns transforming the state-owned company Aerospace Industrial Maintenance Norway SF, also known as AIM Norway, into a limited liability company and empowering the government to change its state ownership of the new limited liability company. AIM Norway is currently a state-owned company operating maintenance tasks related to central air defence equipment such as F-16 fighter aircraft and Sea King rescue helicopters. The purpose of the transformation into a limited liability company is to further safeguard the company’s position in an international competitive situation, to enable the company to have more owners and to be associated with strategic partners who can participate in and further develop the company, with the investment needs required when the new armaments phase takes place, such as the new F-35 fighter aircraft and the new helicopters. It will provide greater flexibility to adapt the ownership structure to what is best for the company in the long term. It is an objective to ensure that the high-tech competence of the company remains in Norway today, and that a government sale will provide the Norwegian defence industry with a good opportunity to strengthen its position and expand its operations at AIM Norway AS. Furthermore, it is important to ensure operational continuity – that the operation is continued in its entirety without prejudice to customers and co-contractors. Existing agreements with the Defence are transferred to the new company. The competence of the vis-à-vis owner of the board is not affected by the transformation, nor will it have financial or administrative implications for the State. Employer's rights and obligations and employees' rights and pension schemes are continued. The availability and maintenance of highly qualified personnel in Norwegian hands is essential to ensure adequate preparedness and the operational capability of the Defence Agency. In the right, it is important to ensure that the head office of the new limited liability company is located in Norway, and I would like to stress that it is important for the Right to ensure good framework conditions so that we can maintain and further develop a competitive Norwegian defence industry. The appointment of the Committee ensures a good balance and facilitates the strengthening of private ownership, while taking into account that this is a sensitive and strategically important business area for Norway, is ensured by establishing a lower share of ownership of 50 p.m., while opening up full sales if the purchaser has a minimum State holding of 50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3113	I want to start by thanking the case manager, me too, for a very good work on this matter and the setting that we are going to handle today. AIM is a government enterprise that is now proposed to convert to an AS. AIM has contributed in a sovereign way to ensure a highly competent maintenance operation with all the arrangements for taking on tasks related to central air defence equipment. AIM, as a state enterprise, has in this way contributed positively to this. Initially, AIM could have moved forward as a state enterprise, but now that one has agreed that the state ownership should not be less than 50 pst, unless it is through consolidation with companies or actors with state ownership already, the Christian People's Party is united in this transformation. There is a high level of competence we have through AIM, and it is therefore high-skilled jobs that it is important to take care of and develop further. The Christian People's Party is so pleased that the headquarters of the company will be located in Norway, and that production can take place in Norway. The workplaces represented by the Norwegian defence industry and by AIM are precisely these types of jobs, which evolve, which are innovative and which take care of both the security aspect and the preparedness aspect. I would like to stress that it will now be important to seek out strategic partners who will be involved and make AIM a forward-looking company, with a strong professional environment that is engrossed in security and defence. In all types of work, human beings are the most important resource we have. Of course, framework conditions, flexibility and operation are important elements in all companies, but it is human beings, those who add, that are the competence and the resource. It is therefore important for the individual employee, when one is about to go through both conversion and transformation into something new, that the rights and pension schemes of the employees are passed on. It creates security and makes it manageable for it to be added, which in turn will lead to valuable skills remaining in the company, and the college is involved in shaping and building AIM for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3126	Thanks to the case spokesperson for the work done. The Government is proposing in Prop. 79 LS for 2015–2016 to transform Aerospace Industrial Maintenance Norway SF into a limited liability company. The decision to transform the operation from a management body to a government entity in 2011 was based on a desire to enable the workshop to carry out major maintenance tasks related to new fighter aircraft and rescue helicopters. At that time, as mentioned earlier, it was actually promised that one would not proceed to the transformation of a limited liability company. Now you see how much is worth today. We see that maintenance agreements are increasingly integrated into the contracts when purchasing new defence equipment, and it was then important to facilitate the development of AIM in markets that were established as a result of these developments. Similarly, in 2011, a decisive emphasis was placed on having sufficient control over the company's deliveries to the Defence Agency. The centre party believes that the sale of AIM is not necessary to secure the company's investment funds. Nor does the government share the view that privatisation automatically leads to better corporate governance and better operation. We've seen enough examples of privatisation not giving better control. For us, the fact that one of these is facing a growing market is also an argument for national ownership. Through national state ownership of an expanding company, a potentially large and important income is guaranteed to the community in Norway. I want to show that when AIM was turned into an SF, it was a central part of the foundation for this that one would ensure adequate control over the company's deliveries to the Defence. In the proposition, the government is now paying less attention to this. It seems that the potential for commercial operations is probably so high-priority. I'm busy evaluating the overall impact on security and society at an AIM outhouse. When considering other issues, such as the defence capacity and the protection of the professional environment in Norway, we see it as a clear better solution to hold on to AIM as a state entity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3141	There is no one in this case who disagrees that the case spokesperson has done a good job, and he gets thanks from me too. I would like to add that AIM, or Aerospace Industrial Maintenance Norway SF, is an important company, has worked well and does important jobs, which are also important for Norway, through Norwegian defence. In our opinion, there are no good reasons why it should be changed from a state entity to a corporation, and initially we do not support the sale proposed by the government. I would add, however, that we believe that we can vote for it subsidiaryly, because there is now a solution where, first of all, there is a clear national control through the owner's office that is in the recommendation for a decision on the matter, where there will be a good basis to ensure that the head office, the workplaces and the enterprise are in Norway, and where one has found a solution that makes us feel secure that the conditions and rights for them to be added are cared for in a good way. It's decisive, and we have to stand by them. But having found a good solution for them is also important for maintaining competence. It is not only important for them to add, but it is also important for the company and the defence. We do not see good reasons for and believe that it is not empirical to convert a state entity into a limited company itself to give any gain, especially in a company that is so important to the Defence – it is great, national interests – and we come subsidiaryly to support the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3152	Let me join in the range of those who thank both the rapporteur and the committee for their good work. The government highlights the importance of building a competitive Norwegian defence industry in the new national defence industrial strategy that was debated and adopted here in Stortinget not long ago. AIM Norway is and will be an important part of this, and it is therefore important to further develop the company. Now I'm not going to go into the internal discussions that were in the previous government, whether it should become a corporation or not in the long term, I think it's best to leave to the history books, but as the development of the international defence market is now, this is just a very natural next step to position and consolidate companies. It is also well in line with the ownership message to do this. As Liv Signe Navarsete was involved in his post, the transformation to state enterprises was done in due time because the company would be able to carry out larger maintenance tasks and have the opportunity to undertake new tasks. The conversion of AIM Norway into an AS and the power to change state ownership is important in order for the State that owns to have the necessary flexibility to adapt the ownership structure to the best interests of the company. Private owners may contribute to the provision of significant and relevant competences necessary for the further development and positioning of the company. It may also contribute to synergies with other relevant defence industries. This is an industry that is internationally in a rather violent consolidation phase. A recent example is the purchase of Patria by the Kongsberg Group, and this is also important in a Nordic and also in a national context. On 3 June, it became known that AIM Norway is purchasing the defence company Pratt & Whitney Belgium Engine Center, BEC. The companies have been negotiating the purchase over the past week. There has been business-sensitive information, which has not been an opportunity to go out with before the parties themselves published it. It was also very important that the employees of the company were informed first. I would like to emphasise that the purchase of the BEC is the decision of the board and based on business considerations. Together with the government’s proposal to transform AIM into a limited liability company and to acquire a strategic partner on the ownership side, there is a good basis for further strengthening the competitiveness of AIM Norway in the European and international defence market. Transforming like this has traditionally been done by law with equivalent regulation. For example, we can refer to the transformation of the NSB and the Post into limited liability companies. Just by choosing the legal form, the focus is on the continuity of operations, so that the company's operations can be continued continuously. It is also important for the predictability of employees and it is important for maintaining competence. It will also be positive for the company's co-contractors. In addition, a legal transformation will be time-saving and cost-saving, as a number of issues will then be regulated directly by law. The transformation itself will not have any personnel implications. In any sale, it will be important for the government to have a national anchoring of the head office function and to ensure the provision of maintenance and modification services on defence equipment in Norway. Whereas, in order to achieve this objective, a holding of more than one third is initially sufficient, special considerations may exist to the effect that the lower limit of the State's holding in individual companies for that purpose should be higher; Here I think the committee has landed on a good solution in its position. The future state ownership will largely depend on the strategic partner you want to get on the owner's side. In order to have the necessary flexibility, possibly to consolidate with other State-owned companies, with sufficient control, the proposal now put forward by the Committee is also well in this way. An important criterion in the choice of strategic partners will be the extent to which a new owner can further develop and strengthen the company’s competitiveness in the short and long term. It will be important for a partner who can contribute to increased investment capacity in the company and increase consolidation and cooperation in the defence industry. In particular, it is important to be able to facilitate increased industrial support for the defence at large. There have also been some comments on the issue of security, defence and the protection of the professional environment in Norway. The Ministry of Defence will, of course, focus on preparedness and ability to secure national production by choosing a strategic partner on the ownership of the AIM Norway. There is also an important assessment criterion in the selection of strategic partners, their willingness to support the company’s and Norwegian ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3181	The experience of conversion in the form of takeovers or in the form of companies is that it often contributes to uncertainty. Whether acquired rights and pension schemes are implemented is often the occupation of employees. We recognize this from the process when the cleaning service was transferred from the defense to private operators, and from other changes in the state company, which was also the subject of the State Council's intervention. The employees of today's AIM express the same uncertainty. These concerns have been taken seriously by the Workers' Party. The representative Nybakk also focused on that in his article. A unanimous committee has also made it clear that all rights and pension schemes must be continued, as other representatives have also stated in their statements. How will the Council of State monitor this against both employees and management after the changes in company form have been implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3189	Thank you for the question. As I also wrote in a letter to the committee, in response to nine questions that were sent, there is nothing in the very transformation that facilitates changes in this. Selection of e.g. The pension scheme is something that the board also makes today, so the board of directors makes that choice. The state will continue to have a holding and be involved in this way. So I would like to stress, as I was a little bit involved in my post, that helping to position and strengthen AIM might be one of the most important things we can do to secure employees' jobs in the future. It is highly skilled labour force. There are a lot of good people who have been able to attract new contracts too after they – I kept saying – transferred the old contracts from the Air Force Main Workshop Kjeller to the state company. Choosing the legal form, which ensures uninterrupted operation and continuity, will also be important in order to avoid the situation that could otherwise create uncertainty. So overall, I believe that this is a good arrangement also for the employees, who will contribute to security in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3196	State councils are now referring to AIM as an important part of the Norwegian defence industry. This means that she is comfortable with the power of sale being limited to a maximum of 50 pst. and more only if the buyer has a State holding of 50 pst. Will she confirm that, because this is what the Committee is now presenting, and will it be adopted later this evening? Then I also have to ask the Council of State about the employees' rights, because I don't understand that she answers that. Employees currently have one pension scheme for employees who were there when the enterprise was transformed into a state enterprise, while new employees have another pension scheme. It would be petty, in my opinion, if a change in company form were to result in the eventual loss of their pension scheme, perhaps not so many employees who were there at the change in the previous wave. Can the Councils comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3203	Let me comment on both of these questions. First of all, as I said in my post: I think the committee has landed on a good solution. We had in the proposition from the government not added any specific percentages, but followed what is common for having state control, a minimum control. But I think it's a good solution that's been chosen, and by that I think it'll be fully possible to contribute to the consolidation and positioning of the company by getting strategic partners based on that percentage. With regard to the question of pension entitlements and pension schemes, both as I wrote in the letter of reply to the committee, and as I answered the question from the representative Kåre Simensen, there is nothing in the transformation that changes the rights and obligations. It's a decision the board in which case takes, in exactly the same way as the board has done up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3210	In today's setting, the majority has imposed more conditions for the transformation into a limited liability company. It also did so in 2011, when a converted AIM to state executives. My question to the Council of State is, how can the Council of State guarantee that the conditions laid down today are more valuable than those laid down in 2011 and that have not been sustainable for more than five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3215	As I said, I'm not going to go in and comment on what might have been the conditions at the time, but what is in the decisions that the committee is going to take today is a clear lead, which is completely unproblematic for the Ministry of Defence, and which I think gives good room for and opens up so that we can bring in a strategic partner that helps to further develop the company. This is also well in line with principles that are also used for other government sales, and in my opinion it is a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3220	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3225	This is a good day. It's a good day for Norwegian industry, it's a good day for highly skilled jobs, and it's not at least a good day for the employees of AIM Norway. It is a good day for the Norwegian industry because this decision ensures that ownership remains Norwegian, contrary to what was originally proposed by the government. Norwegian ownership is not necessarily the most important thing in itself, but it ensures that we have some control over the fact that head office and production remain in Norway. That is exactly what we agree on today, and we must be very satisfied with that. The type of work carried out on AIM at Kjeller is complex and requires staff with a high level of competence. Norway is a high-cost country, and we cannot compete internationally on the hourly price of employees. We have to compete to be the best. We need to deliver on the competence of employees and on the quality of the product provided by these employees. There are high-skilled jobs we're dealing with in AIM Norway, and that's this type of job we need to invest in if we imagine that Norway is going to have an industry that can compete internationally. Another dimension, which has not yet been addressed in this debate, is that this decision, I think, is important not only for current professionals in AIM, but also for future trade union workers and for young people out there who are now wondering whether there is a future in choosing a professional profession in higher education. I believe that this decision is a clear signal to these: choose the profession that we need and want the skilled worker's competence for the young people. Finally. This is a good day for the employees of AIM. Today, their rights are guaranteed by the unanimous opinion of the Committee, which stresses that the rights of workers are to be respected in the transformation into a limited liability company. I believe this is a fundamental and morally very important question – that you should not in any way be able to organize yourself away from your employees' obligations. This shows that we take the employees seriously. And we have to. We need these highly skilled skilled workers if we want to be competitive. It is precisely the competence of these workers that is our foremost competitive advantage. The decision here today, I believe, highlights this clearly, which is why it is a good day for the employees of AIM Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3245	I absolutely fully agree with the representative of Mrs Wennesland's point that this is a good day for the employees of AIM, I just want to stress one thing, so that it becomes clear. It's also in the proposition from the government. We've put a lot of emphasis on maintaining the head office function in Norway from the government's point of view. It is also mentioned in paragraph 3.3 of the Proposition. What's important to emphasize is that it can also be achieved with a third's ownership. This means that changes in the statutes can be opposed to the ownership of the property, i.e. the state’s ownership. It also means that the government considers that the future classification of AIM Norway AS, as it will then be, should be in category 2 of the four categories of state ownership that have been organised since 2006. In Category 2, the objective of ownership is, among other things, ensuring the head office function. So this had already been taken care of by the government through what's in the proposition. When I say that I think the solution that the committee has chosen is good, it's because it helps to support that decision and we wanted to further develop the company in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3252	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3266	This matter concerns a very important issue, namely to facilitate the conditions for combating threats to the independence and security of the country and other vital national security interests, as well as ensuring legal certainty for the individual and to ensure trust and simplification of the basis for the control of preventive security services. Today, we are facing a complex risk and threat picture. The security policy situation is constantly changing. Society is becoming more and more vulnerable, and technology is evolving rapidly. Therefore, it is important that the Safety Act keeps up with this development. The fact that this is taking up many shows the many hearings that came to work on the revision of the law. We can also see that the proposed changes to the law take care of most of the recordings made in the consultation round. There is full agreement in the committee on this matter, and that is good. I would like to thank the Committee for good and constructive cooperation. I just want to go through some main points quickly. Changes are now being made to the general scope of the law, in addition to the extension of the law to all acquisitions into critical infrastructure. In this context, I would like to point out that the petroleum and energy sectors are also covered by the Safety Act. Furthermore, exceptions to the duty of security clearance and authorisation are now being made to the members of the Government and judges of the Supreme Court. This has been a long-standing practice, and there is no reason why there should be a distinction between these positions and those already exempted, such as: us deposit representatives. An alert obligation is also introduced for establishments governed by the Security Act which acquire knowledge of a planned or ongoing activity which may pose a non-negligible risk to the independence and security of the State. The national response function for serious data attacks against critical infrastructure, NorCERT, is now included in the law. The digital infrastructure warning system and the processing of personal data are also included in the law, and a specificisation of the tasks will be included in a regulation. The current Information Security Regulation, which provides for the retention of safety-related incidents for at least five years, is now incorporated into the law. As far as the clearing authority is concerned, there has long been a need to establish a new clearing authority structure with few but competent clearing authorities. Today we have 42 clearing houses. It creates challenges. Professional environments are fragmented, and there's a biased distribution of issues. In addition, increasing competence is being required to deal satisfactorily with clearance issues. Fewer clearing authorities will obviously increase legal certainty for individuals and provide a better basis for non-discrimination. The proposal proposes to reduce these from current 42 to 7 and that there should be only one civil sector clearing authority and one defence sector. However, it is clear from the statutory audit that the three EOS services continue to clear up their own staff, as well as that, for constitutional reasons, the courts and the ministry of the Prime Minister continue to be maintained as their own clearing authorities. It is also new that in the case of acquisitions of critical infrastructure, the obligation to provide warning is not conditional on the acquisition being defined as a security-graded acquisition; furthermore, businesses are also required to notify authorities if they wish to implement acquisitions into critical infrastructure which may pose a non-negligible risk to the independence and security of the empire. It is important to note that an obligation is now also introduced for establishments subject to the Security Act to notify the Superior Ministry of a knowledge of a planned or ongoing activity which may pose a non-negligible risk to the establishment or implementation of security-threatening activities. It is, of course, essential that authorities be given the opportunity to react before a security-threatening situation becomes a reality. It is therefore important to provide a basis for the King of State Council to intervene in acquisitions of critical infrastructure where such a risk exists. Overall, this is a means of preventing espionage and sabotage, which will lead to control by the operators themselves, assessing risks and applying risk mitigation measures before any warning is sent to the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3294	The rapporteur has presented the excellent report for a unanimous vote. I only have a moment that didn't come into the notes, and as I would like the Council of State to remember, when you go from 42 to fewer, it is very important to ensure sufficient procedural capacity, so that there are no bottlenecks. It was also a topic in the case of the Ombudsman’s report on defence. It sounded to the Council of State's posts when it seemed that something had been done with the bottlenecks. Now new things can happen, and then it's important that you keep it in mind from the start. This also applies to capacity following complaints, it has happened that they have also accumulated. It was basically just the supplement I had.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3301	I am very pleased to note that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has given a unanimous vote with full support to the proposal for amendments to the Security Act. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for both a clean and good presentation and for the work he has done. This is the first part of the work on the Safety Act. It's a safety committee working on a comprehensive law audit, but the government was of the opinion that it was important to deal with some of the more urgent challenges quickly, and so we made these changes in the Security Act now. Although there is talk of what could be called minor changes to the applicable safety laws, the proposed changes are important enough. As the Joint Committee itself points out, today we are facing a very complex risk and threat picture. The security policy situation is changing steadily, society is becoming more vulnerable, and technology is evolving at a very rapid pace. Therefore, it is important that the Safety Act keeps pace with developments. The legislative proposal is an important measure to strengthen our preventive safety. With regard to the proposal for a new clearing house structure, the main aim is to improve the quality of the clearing house. This is, as we have discussed in the matter of the Ombudsman’s annual report, very important decisions, especially for the persons concerned, but also for the businesses that depend on the security clearance of their personnel. A reduction from 42 units to mainly two central authorities, one in the defence sector and one in the civil sector, will contribute to the enhancement of skills and quality and equal treatment in personnel clearance cases. It is also both an improvement in efficiency and a debureaucratisation. The point of the representative Hansen is very good. I will not rule out that there may be any accumulation of balances right in the transition phase, but what is also in the proposition, in paragraph 12.2.2, is just an explanation of how to transfer resources internally from the authorities and sectors that have had their own clearing authorities to the central clearing authorities that are now becoming. For example, when you have: in a department or in a sector shall no longer be responsible for clearing, resources shall also be transferred. It is the Ministry of Justice that is responsible for the new civil sector clearing authority, so there will be a framework transfer to the Ministry of Justice from other departments in the civil sector – and similarly in the military sector, where the Defence Security Department will be provided with resources from the departments in the sector that will no longer be clearing authorities. With regard to the proposal for the processing of personal data, it is important to clarify that this access shall only apply in cases where it is necessary for the national safety authority to carry out the important task of dealing with serious data attacks against critical infrastructure. Surplus information, i.e. information that goes beyond the purpose of the acquisition, will neither be retained nor provided to others. The protection of privacy has been safeguarded by the fact that a proportionality assessment of the need has been carried out, against legitimate data protection interests. The basic requirements of the Data Protection Act shall apply to the processing of personal data. Here it's about the lawmaking of a practice that already exists, and I think it's an independent point to get this kind of practice into the form of law. Lawmaking is a clarification of the framework to be applied and therefore means strengthening privacy. Furthermore, I would like to stress the importance of the proposals for the two new provisions on warning and authority for the King of State Council to take decisions to avoid the occurrence of security-threatening situations. One provision requires the owners of critical infrastructure to have an obligation to assess the risk of espionage and sabotage in the acquisition of such infrastructure and to alert the authorities if the risk is assessed as not negligible. The government shall ensure that the establishments concerned are provided with clarity as to the overall authority to which it is to be notified. The second provision requires establishments currently subject to the Security Act to notify if the establishment becomes aware of a planned or ongoing activity which may involve a non-negligible safety risk. Both new legislative proposals can be described as a safety valve or an emergency brake and are therefore not often used, but the proposals are, in my view, good examples of preventive thinking and not only reactive to prevent the occurrence of security threats, such as: an increased possibility of espionage or sabotage on socially important objects or installations. It is important that the authorities are provided with the necessary tools for intervention where independence and security of the country so require.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3320	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3334	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3341	Let me first draw attention to an error in the last paragraph of Section 66, which was not corrected in the proofreading. Reference should be made to Section 63 and not to Section 64, as stated in the printed setting. The defence law submitted covers the most important law underpinning the activities of the defence. Four laws are proposed combined into one law. It will then cover both protection, military denial, the Home Office and the rules of employment of defence personnel. A large majority of the Committee took note of the proposal for a common law, including the extension of the law in force in general. Only a few paragraphs have changed. There are paragraphs in which the ministry has carried out a shift of the existing division of responsibilities between the magnificence and the government or the ministry, then in the favor of the executive, to put it that way. There we have put back the original wording of today's legislation, so it is clear that the department must have the consent of the Storting. I'll get back to it. Today's protective duty law is largely unchanged. Here is the purpose of ensuring the defence access of appropriate personnel. They are all subject to compulsory discharge from the year they are 18 years old, and compulsory age is normally from 19 to 44 years old, 55 for command. The discount has decided in recent years that the total ordinary service may be up to 19 months, broken down by first-time and recurrent service. It's the Stortinget that determines the length of the initial service. It is now fixed at 12 months, with the possibility of differentiation by 6 and 18 months. Since we also have a duty of protection for women in 2015, i.e. a general duty of protection in earnest, the Committee has noted that it is important to facilitate the service of women in defence. It concerns culture and attitudes as well as equipment and physical facilities. I would like to refer to the debate that was in the Chamber about the Ombudsman’s proposals an hour ago. With regard to the old military nectar law, it may be worth noting that there are now relatively few who are asking for exemptions for reasons of conviction. In 2015, 204 applications were received at 3,008 in 1998. This is probably due to the fact that it becomes less relevant when a small proportion of the protected persons are admitted to the initial service. The Home Security Act is about the protection and service of Home Security. A broad majority of the Committee believes that it is fully possible to preserve the specific nature of Home Protection within the framework of a common law. But we have two amendments. The first is essentially important. The Committee considers that it should continue to be the Stortinget that determines the organisation and incorporation of the HV into the Defence. The second amendment is only an addition such that the second paragraph of Section 5 is amended as follows: «The protection of the home shall participate in territorial operations as part of national joint operations and in the protection of the home.» So to the staff floor, which is a special law to the Civil Service Act for defence personnel. Here, too, the Committee replaces some paragraphs and paragraphs with existing laws, legal texts and legal paragraphs. These include: on the relationship between the Storting and the Ministry and the non-compliance of military personnel with the Civil Service Act. These are basically very important points. There may be some different views in the remarks here between a majority and the minority, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, but when it comes to the legal texts, we have come to an agreement, which I am very pleased with, and will thank the Committee for being possible. I think it's very important that in precisely these areas that regulate both temporary addition and other employment conditions, we can stand together in such a case. The majority is very, very wide. Finally, in the case of disbursement, the Committee points out in its note to Innst. 383 L for 2012–2013. That setting we believe should still apply, and that is why we are making comments about it. And then finally, it may be okay that the Ministry of Defence also reads Storting's settings and not just the individual decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3371	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur and the Committee for having been able to agree on the compilation of four laws into one common law for regulating the duty of protection and the service of defence. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank political advisers and the committee secretariat for their patience and good support in this complex matter. The aim of the merger has been to continue the law in force within one common law with simplified legislation and a more modern language. The focus of this demanding work has been the widest possible consensus in the Committee on the wording of the legislative text. For us, it has been important for an overall committee to be behind this new law. We have made that clear with a few exceptions, where the Central Party has chosen to stand outside of some of the majority comments that go on amendments to the legislative text. I would like to comment on the changes the committee has chosen to make in some of the legal texts. The Committee is of the opinion that it is right that the Storting should define the military-accompanied scheme and that the Ministry should have an instruction and organisational authority and be able to draw up the necessary adjustments and rules within the overall framework of the scheme. Humans are the defence's most important resource. The competence they possess, the experience they have in the performance of their functions, is the highest value of the defence. Staff must therefore be ensured in the best possible way. The new law will both safeguard the individual's rights in the workplace and provide the necessary flexibility for the employer to operate such a complex organisation as the Defence is operating in peace, crisis and war situations. I think we have. We have strong job protection today, and this is also continued in the new law. The current practice of using and renewing temporary service relationships, including annual target assignments, is continued. It is also an overall objective to reduce the number of temporary staff and increase the proportion of permanent staff. The Committee believes it is right that the Storting should continue to determine and provide guidance for the organisation and structure of the Home Office and to provide for the activities of the councils, committees and committees, as the rapporteur said. Home security constitutes a significant resource both for civil society, as a police assistance resource in emergency situations and for defence. Some changes have been made to the legal text. It will still be the case that HV should preferably take part in the protection of the homelands and have local territorial responsibility for key responsibilities in the field of guarding and securing critical infrastructure, but HV should also now be able to be used in territorial operations as part of national defence operations where required. HV must be able to be developed and organised in line with the defence structure, while protecting the specific nature of HV. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I believe that we have now received a new protection and service law that makes it easier to find out which rights and obligations apply to both civil and military employees. The applicable law continues and the legislation has been updated until today’s organisation of defence. The broad consensus of the Committee also underlines the correctness of the fact that the work on merging four laws into one was initiated, implemented and now completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3401	Today, when we are dealing with the law on protection and services in the Defence and Defence Act, that is, with an attitude that is very good for the days to come. It's an expression called 'all to time', and this expression comes to its right when it comes to this matter. There's a lot going on, both in defence and in society otherwise, and if we're going to be able to look forward and be forward, we need a little time to update and change. By merging these four laws into one law, where both improvement and simplification of the law are on the agenda, the Christian People's Party believes that a person is given a common law. With a big deal, most things are done by the case spokesman, but I just want to briefly underline a few things. By having a general duty of protection for both women and men, it is important to facilitate the provision of services to women in defence. We've had a lot of women in Defense for many years, and they've done a great job. With the change we have now introduced, with a general duty of protection for both sexes, the situation must also facilitate this. The Christian People's Party is, therefore, very pleased that one in the setting indicates that it should facilitate both physical facilities, that equipment be adapted, and that what goes on working with culture and postures – and this, of course, applies to both sexes. A lot of good work has been done in this field, but it also says that some work is done. In the case of the Home Security Act, it is decisive that the Stortinget should continue to determine and provide guidance for the organisation and structure of the Home Security. Home security has its own value and characteristics and has important resources in the form of individual human beings with a high level of competence and local expertise, which are both important input factors in ordinary preparedness and is a tool in anti-terrorism preparedness. In conclusion, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his very good work, and I would like to express my appreciation for the way in which the President-in-Office has dealt with this matter, in which we have worked in cooperation, in a cross-political way, until this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3414	I'll be very quick, for most things have been said. I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for his enthusiasm in this matter. Paragraphs and stuff aren't my strong side, but it's obviously the strength of the case rapporteur, and it was nice that I didn't get into it that much. I want to mention one point, and that's the Home Security Act, where you change it so that Home Security can move outside of its home. I was initially a little skeptical about it, but once I've thought about it and taken it up internally in the party, it's actually very wise to do it that way. You can look at other countries, for example. to France and the United States, not least, where one has National Guard, with people who make up a kind of reserve army, where most people have full-time jobs but who contribute nationally to a kind of reserve force. The Home Protection Act and the protection of the world can be a little old-fashioned – something that came after World War II – and it may be natural now that you think differently as you get transported faster, you move faster, and the need can be quite different from where the Home Security is actually today. Moving these forces quickly, I think, is essential. If you, not least, want to have some Homeland soldiers up to North Norway, to Finnmark, for example, it is not certain that there are initially so many up there, but you can move forces from elsewhere in Norway quickly up to Finnmark, if you need it. But if we are to change the concept of "home protection" to what it actually becomes, that is, a national guard, we might want to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3425	Through the proposal, the government wants to improve and simplify the legislation on defence protection and service. There's a lot of good suggestions here that the Center Party is united in, so the Center Party is going to support the bill, but with a very strong suggestion that the Home Guard Act will be passed as its own law. The legislative proposal is a revision and a merger of the Home Office Act, the Civil Protection Act, the Armed Forces Act and the Military Nectar Act. The merging of laws is according to the government not intended to cause material changes, but something seems to have been completely altered in some areas. There's one area in particular the Center Party is concerned about, and that's the merger of the Homeland Act with the other laws. As the National Council for the Protection of the Home has expressed, they have been concerned that merging the laws of the Home Office with other laws will put pressure on the property of the Home Office. Since the creation of Homeland Protection after the Second World War and the establishment of the Homeland Protection Act in 1953, Homeland Protection is linked to the community and the defence of the homelands by law. Section 1 of the Home Protection Act emphasises that the Home Protection Act should primarily take part in the protection of the home. In a new bill, this is replaced by ‘local territorial responsibility and shall participate in territorial operations’. The central party shares the assessments made by the National Council for the Protection of Home Affairs and the LO that the basic idea of Home Affairs must be passed on. It includes local forces to defend local territory and objects. A weighty local anchoring of the Home Protection system is not inconceivable. Weak local anchoring and weak interaction with civil society can have negative consequences for nationwide preparedness, both civil and military. The current Home Security Act states that the location and location of Home Security is determined by «the King with the consent of the Storting». This sentence has been proposed to be removed in the proposal. Both the Landsrådet för Heimevernet, LO and the Norwegian Officers’ Association have warned against removing this wording. It does because the competence to make decisions would then be pushed from the Storting to the government when it comes to the organisational structure of the Home Office. The central party believes it would be unfortunate if responsibility for the organisation and place of Homeland Protection in the Defence and the organisation of the members of and the tasks of the council, selection and denominator were transferred from the Stortinget to the government. Therefore, the Central Party supports the recommendation of the LO and the National Council of the Heimevernet. It is therefore positive that a joint committee in the setting determines that it is decisive that the Stortinget should continue to decide on the organisation and structure of the Home Security. There are a lot of moments in this proposition – as I said in the introduction – in which the centre party is merged. Therefore, I take up the one thing in a matter where we have a slightly different vision. The previous representative who was in the pulpit said how important it was that one could move quickly. Yes, it may be important, but for a large part of Norway, it was quite a long way to home security and home security departments – and also a long way to practice. In the military professional councils of the defense chief, there were also proposals to shut down Setnesmoen, Homeland District 11. This is also about security in everyday life. It is about the situation in a war or war-like situation, but it is also about crisis situations in everyday life, where the Home Office is invaluable. We've seen in the West how important it is when storms, floods and others happen to a part of the country. I know that other parts of the country have also experienced it. It's okay that you can move quickly, but there has to be someone there, there has to be someone there, and they have to have an organization with the other emergency seats that make everyone know their place and know what to do when the situation occurs. Therefore, it has not expired that the Home Security should participate in the protection of the population. There are some values in the Norwegian community that are worth taking care of in the future as well. This is one of them. With that, I'll take up the suggestions of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3451	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3454	It's said that language is power, and that applies to the most extent also to laws. When laws are difficult to understand, citizens may miss out on information about important rights and obligations, and that can be a legal security issue in the ultimate sense. I think the case rapporteur and the committee have done a very thorough job on this matter, and I would like to thank everyone who has contributed. Simplification of legislation is always an important political task and a high priority is given. In the Defence Act, the government has put forward a proposal that both improves and simplifies the legislation for defence and civil servants. It is the merger of the Civil Protection Act, the Home Protection Act, the Military Nether Law and the Defence Personnel Act into one law. The legislative work has been part of the ‘Clearer Laws for Citizens’ project, which is part of a government initiative on a simpler everyday life. I have had as an important goal of designing the laws in as clear and understandable a language as possible, thus contributing to less distance between the inhabitants and the administration. I am very pleased that the large majority of the committee agrees that the laws should be merged into a common law. A common law will make it significantly easier to find the rights and obligations of compulsory, military and civil servants in one place. This type of audit has long been the subject of both the National Protection Act and the Home Affairs Act. Both laws date back to 1953, and the military law is originally from 1965. I have noticed that there has been a concern that the legislative proposal may involve changes in the structure of Home Protection, and that the proposal may help to weaken the specific nature of Home Protection. Let me also stress here that the important reason for the revision of the law was purely technical, not substantive. After all, the government will always present issues related to strength structure, because it is constitutionally anchored in the Constitution, so that anchoring is there regardless of what is in the new defence law. Home security is part of the defense, in line with the defenses and other departments, and it's also important to remember much of the history, which the representative Navarsete was also in. However, a timely and relevant wording of the law is important, and Home Security also needs to adapt to the new security policy challenges and develop in line with the military requirements imposed on the defence of Norway. In earlier times, we had 18 home - protection districts. Now there are 11, and the forces in the Home Guard have for a long time already been able to be deployed in areas other than where they have natural membership. So I assume that «the protection of the homeland» must be interpreted in accordance with the organisation of Homeland Protection at all times. The new law gives us a more modern regulatory framework, which is up-to-date with today's organisation of defence. The starting point for the work is the continuation of the current law, but updating the law to today's organisation of defence. I am also pleased that the Committee has joined some necessary changes to the law to ensure that the defence is given access to the necessary information about persons to be called to service, so that situations where people who are not fit to practice are not given military training and weapons training. The Swedish Armed Forces Act is a young law compared to the others, but there is also a need for linguistic simplification and to design it in the same language as the others. Simpler languages can also provide clarification of unclear legal texts and concepts that can be understood in different ways. Although the intention has been to simplify, we have seen that some have felt that rewriting the language in the laws has contributed to material changes. It hasn't been the intention. I have noticed that the Committee proposes to continue the current wording of the Defence Personnel Act on conditions for the addition of military personnel. The Committee considers that the Government's proposed wording provides for a general derogation from the Civil Service Act for military agents and an extension of the right to temporarily add. It has by no means been the intention, nor is it in the bill. That is why it is not a problem for the Committee to look at the old wording, because there is no change in reality. The Defence Personnel Act and the proposal for a Defence Act are specific laws to the Civil Service Act, and exceptions to the general rules of the Civil Service Act must be governed by law or regulation, just as they do today. I would also like to stress that in the defence, the general rule is that the military should be added firmly, either to 35 years of age or to 60 years of age. This will be further reinforced now that the new military arrangement enters into force, as this is the general rule, and the conversion of jobs into permanent posts has already begun to a large extent. Language evolves, and the language of laws must also follow that development, so that the distance between legislator and citizens is not too great.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3488	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3502	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3509	I would first like to thank the Committee on Rapid Processing of the Proposition on Investment in Defence. The entire Committee supports the further development of the fighter aircraft base on Ørland and the significant investments to be launched. There is full agreement to approve the start-up and cost framework for three new property, construction and construction projects: new supply stock for F-35, purchase of the Hårberg school from the municipality of Ørland and new extensions for command and employment. I'd like to say a little bit about each of the projects. New F-35 supply stock is of great importance for the establishment of the fighter aircraft base, and the stock must be clear upon receipt of the first F-35 aircraft on Norwegian soil in 2017. It is positive that there is an international network cooperating on supply solutions for F-35 and that stock should be included as a supply stock in this cooperation. The Haarberg School has an adverse location close to Ørland Main Aviation Station. It is therefore very good that there is an agreement that defence buildings should buy the school from the municipality. This means that a new school can be established at a satisfactory distance from the airstation and provide students and employees with a good environment for learning. New school should be ready in 2017. There are also possibilities for re-use of the Hårberg School of Defense since the school is connected to the air station, so this solution could be positive both for the municipality and for the Defence. Air defence strength production for air protection and base kits are co-located in Ørland. This implies an additional need for about 150 dwellings and blocks of command and servitude. The construction is carried out in several stages. This involves the approval of the 1st step with the construction of 50 housing units to be completed during 2017. The rest of the housing units are planned in 2020. It is my impression that a good progress plan has been drawn up for the construction of the new fighter aircraft base, and the projects give the impression of being developed according to the plan. I therefore want to boast to everyone who is working on this demanding expansion. The Proposition also provides information on the logistics project in the LOS programme, which is part of a joint integrated defence management system, the FIF. Unfortunately, this project has not had the same success, but has been faced with significant challenges over several years of delays and cost increases. Part one of the project was introduced on 1 January and the inclusion in the material system will last throughout 2016. The defense has recommended cancelling the last two sub-contractors in the project to use the resources to clear up a FIF solution for the future since a new SAP technology has come that can make FIF more user-friendly and easier to operate. The Committee assumes that this change does not exercisate and delay the on-going introduction of the FIF. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the Committee is united that, in the event of a future submarine purchase, an overall strategic and long-term industrial cooperation agreement is to be concluded whereby the supplier/supplier nation commits itself to various forms of industrial cooperation corresponding to the purchase value of the submarine. Repurchase agreements are of the utmost importance for the Norwegian defence industry and ensure market access to our partners and are an important basis for larger deliveries to the foreign market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3532	Once again my favorite theme: defence industry. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his solid work. Furthermore, the Stortinget knows only the Council of State, but I want to thank Secretary of State Øystein Bø – who is not here now – for a good cooperation in this matter, because it has been quite important. The applicant's rapporteur has mentioned the necessary investments in construction and property that must be made in Ørland as part of the preparation for the receipt of F-35. This is of course something to which the Advance Party subscribes. Furthermore, I would like to join the comments of the Centre Party and SV related to the wish that compensation be given to people who have to leave the house and property and otherwise have their quality of life deteriorated – not the rest of the comment, but that part of it. The note on expected industrial cooperation relating to the purchase of submarines, if any, is of particular importance, as the case-rapporteur said. At present, such requirements must be made by Stortinget. This is now that we have customer power, not when we have signed the contract. Then we don't have a chance, it shows experience. It is therefore important that the political discussions be shown. You have to point out what Stortinget has decided and that the suppliers understand the seriousness. The note now is not to be misunderstood. It states that no purchase contract shall be concluded for the purchase of submarines until an overall strategic and long-term industrial cooperation agreement is in place whereby the supplier and the supplier nation commit themselves to different forms of industrial cooperation corresponding to the acquisition value of the submarines. It doesn't make it any more precise. This is a signal for both ThyssenKrupp Marine System and the Direction des Constructions Navales in France, and they both have to notice this. They certainly do. Industrial cooperation and repurchasing have been crucial for the competence and technology development that has taken place in the defence industry in Norway. In fact, I don't think so many people are aware of how important this industry is to Norway. I would therefore like to draw up a few examples of what the repurchase and industrial cooperation initiated by the authorities have meant. Kongsberg, in cooperation with Raytheon in the United States, has developed the NASAMS air protection system for the defence needs of the last half of the 1980s and the first half of the 1990s. The system has been delivered to six nations, including the United States, and several nations are planning acquisitions where NASAMS is concerned. Continuous further development and upgrade in cooperation with the Defence and Export Customers make Kongsberg today deliver one of the world's most advanced and food-efficient air protection systems in its kind. So far, NASAMS has generated more than 13 billion. kr in export income. Cooperation with Raytheon was established as a result of the industrial cooperation agreement concluded in connection with the acquisition of missiles for our F-16 aircraft in 1995. The cooperation agreement initially had a duration of 10 years. In 2005 and thereafter in 2015, the agreement was renewed for a further 10 years. So far, one industrial cooperation agreement from 1995 has provided the basis for 30 years of strategic cooperation and can be further extended, as Raytheon has now become Kongsberg's partner for the marketing and sale of both NSM and JSM in the United States. Another example: Nammo at Raufoss is the sole supplier of the engine for the air-to-air missile AMRAAM, the main weapon of both the US and Norwegian air defence. AMRAAM is used on F-16 and in NASAMS. Long-term commitment to the development of the production of rocket engines on Raufoss is the basis for success. At the end of the 1990s, Nammo and the Norwegian authorities focused on a rocket engine technology programme, among others. on the basis that Norway had decided to develop the Naval Strike Missile, NSM, for the new frigates and the coastal corvettes, and to participate in the development programme of the ESSM Mission Sea Sparrow, which is used for the air protection of the frigates, and the missile that is the short-range weapon in our F-16 aircraft. This is the starting point for Nammo to have one of the world's most advanced competence environments for the development and production of rocket engines. Success with AMRAAM has opened the doors to become the supplier of several missile programmes to both the United States and Europe, among others. to the United States missile AIM-9X and the British LMM missile. In the last ten years, Nammo has delivered rocket engines worth about 4 billion. kr. My main point is, as I hope everyone will register, and I think most people understand that industrial cooperation agreements are not a plan economy that has been misunderstood. The defence industry is important for defence, for industry, for value creation and for Norway. That is why we must bet on both industrial cooperation agreements and – I was saying in the worst case – buy-backs, but industrial cooperation agreements are the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3555	The centre party supports the start of the proposed investment project in the proposal. The government's proposals to Ørland seem reasonable. In view of the expansion of the Orlandan region, the Central Party has voiced concerns about the way some of the inhabitants of the Orlandan region have been taken care of. On Tuesday 19 April, the NRK, through the documentary «Noise in the Land», showed that several of the people who are affected by the noise of the aircraft are not satisfied with how the Defence Building has handled the matter. According to the NRK, 176 house owners are offered to sell the house at the runway in what is called the red zone, while about 800 bus drivers are offered noise insulation because of the increasing noise from the new fighter planes. NRK spoke with the 33 first people who had sold their house, and of these 26 answered that they were not satisfied with the process. The centre party is aware that those who miss their homes and homes need proper compensation. For this reason, we have commented that we expect the defence community to take a reasonable and generous approach, so that the locals in Ørland do not have to suffer in order to accommodate the country's battlefield. For us, it is not acceptable that farmers should involuntarily accept housing outside the noise zone, while the animals should remain within the noise zone. It's also not acceptable if people are compensated with a dwelling The defense believes that, after their life situation, they have had to, instead of being compensated with a dwelling corresponding to what they have today. The defense must be clear that you want to use national suppliers in any project where possible. Our defence industry is important to Norway, both for economics, jobs and national security. This is Stortinget's deal. In the setting of the message on national defence-industrial strategy, a Joint Committee concluded that defence depends not only on the defence industry, but also on material supplies, but also on maintaining competence in complex sensor and weapon systems. It is now said that two suppliers competing for a possible delivery of submarines to the Maritime Defense Agency. We need to make sure that such an investment provides the basis for most possible jobs and a clear national, industrial value creation in Norway. The Centre Party, together with the Left and SV, stresses that before any contract for the delivery of submarines is to be signed, binding industrial agreements shall be made to secure Norwegian deliveries. It is important to state that any industrial agreement should have the ambition to entrust the Norwegian industry with a value corresponding to the purchase value of the submarines.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3566	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good piece of work here, and I fully agree with the comments that have been made by the members of the Committee relating to the Los Projekt, which have been going on since 2001, with the latest specifications for requirements from 2008. It was therefore necessary to carry out a review, as we also announced in the budget proposal for the current year. In addition, I believe that the comments and comments that have been made regarding the possible purchase of submarines are good and reasonable. That is why I do not spend much more time on it or on the individual investment projects, because they seem to me to be well covered by both the rapporteur and others. So instead, I want to spend some time saying something about how we and Defence Building work for redemption and noise action on properties in Ørland. In general, it is important to stress that for us it is very important to fulfil the commitments to society, which are defined through the regulatory plan and other legislation. So it's notable in the case of Ørland that the regulation does not provide a basis for expropriation. This means that both redemption and noise measures are voluntary schemes for the individual owner and are concluded in accordance with normal contractual principles. In the process, we place great emphasis on non-discrimination between those affected, whether in terms of redemption or noise measures. The island community will be treated within the same legislation and practice as other local communities affected by large state construction projects. Defence construction is based on the principles of the Law on Remuneration in the event of property ownership or, as it is called in good Norwegian, the Law on Remuneration in the event of voluntary purchase of buildings for noise-free use. On average, defence buildings have paid more than 40 pst. over taxed market value of the properties in which the owner has occupied the property. Farming in Ørland is also important. In cooperation with the agricultural authorities, we want the areas around the air station to continue to be characterised by active agriculture. In those cases where the farm owner chooses to have the house redeemed, the operation for most can largely continue as before. As this is done by means of regular contractual purchases, the owner is also free to accept an offer. Defence buildings have estimated that 175 dwellings in the red noise zone will be offered redemption. Included in this figure are 34 agricultural properties. Of these 34 farms, 26 are active farms. The rest are left out. As I said, for buildings with noise-free purposes, we base the principles of the remuneration law. As of 1 June 2016, Defence Building purchased 42 dwellings divided into 37 landowners, 27 of whom purchased a new dwelling. 15 owners of land have purchased a new dwelling within the purchase price of Defence Building, and one owner of which has bought a dwelling outside Fosenhalvøya. Three have purchased land and are in the process of building a new dwelling. Seven have paid more than the purchase price for the new dwelling, and one has purchased a dwelling outside Fosenhaløya. The reason they have paid more than the redemption sum is that they have purchased a new dwelling with significantly higher benefits, such as: rental unit, completely newly built dwelling or a significantly larger area. Of the detached dwellings, three secondary dwellings and one of the dead have been redeemed so far. In addition to covering these costs, an average of 40 pst. over taxed market value, Defence Buildings has covered the costs of adaptation and relocation with a round sum of NOK 120000 and the document fee for the purchase of new dwellings. Additional expected costs have also been covered. Just because this follows common contractual principles, legal and technical assistance expenditure has also been covered by Defence Buildings. I would also like to remind you – and I think that is an important point in this context, because there are many housing owners around Ørland who are uncertain about what they want to do – that it has been suggested that housing owners can wait until 31 December 2019 to decide whether to want redemption or noise measures. This means that in practice you get approx. two years after the new aircraft have arrived to assess what is the noise picture before deciding whether to take action or noise measures. In my opinion, the overall picture of the measures and the way we work is good and raw. I think it's something that serves both the defence and the civil society in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3583	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3586	This investment proposition is a major and important matter, primarily for the Defence, but also for the community in Orland and for the entire Trøndelag. In 2014, Stortinget made the start-up decision for the fighter aircraft base project with the construction of the new squadron building. We followed up in 2015 with allocation to new main infrastructure, new maintenance building and runway extension. So the next step is to build a new supply store for the F-35s and new loans. The crew in Ørland will increase sharply when the fighter aircraft base becomes fully operational, and 150 more units of housing have been calculated for command and personnel. The government deserves commendation for solving the matter of the future of Hårberg School, as the municipality of Ørland has accepted the offer from Defence Building to buy the school for 100 million. kr. As the Council of State has explained in detail, the Government shows the willingness to facilitate the needs of the community in the establishment of the fighter aircraft base, and it shows in practice that it takes seriously the pressures that noise problems could pose to the community. With today's decision, we're talking so far about an overall investment framework of nearly 3 billion. kr on Ørland. The Storting continues with this the great bet that will provide the Air Force with the very best framework conditions, with top modern base facilities that ensure that the fighter base is ready to receive the first F-35 JSF aircraft arriving in Norway in autumn 2017. In addition, Ørland shall continue to serve as a base for NATO's AWACS aeroplanes, and that is also an important consideration. As I said in the introduction, this is a big and important matter for the defense, but also for the whole of Middle Norway. A giant plant rises on Brekstad in Ørland. The drones are proud to host the new fighter aircraft base. We're talking about a region where the opening up of the defense is very strong, and where the defense still lives in the best of luck. It was last demonstrated during the great allied winter exercise Cold Response. The Battle Light Base is the largest state regional development project in Trøndelag today. It provides growth opportunities for all parts of industry, not least for defence-related suppliers. It will provide the region with new and wider competences and enhance the attractiveness of Trine teams, but most importantly: strengthen the defence of the country through increased operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3601	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3615	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3622	The Government has negotiated an agreement between the EEA/EFTA States and the EU on a new period with the EEA Financial Mechanism and an agreement on the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, both for the period 2014-2021, as well as an additional Protocol on trade in fish between Norway and the EU. This is the fourth agreement on the contribution of EFTA countries to the social and economic development of the less developed countries of the EEA. A broad majority of the Committee agrees with the government that it is in Norway's interest to contribute to this, and that these contributions also contribute to the promotion of bilateral relations. It has been more than 20 years since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. There is a broad consensus that the agreement has served its purpose well. However, after so many years and a strong expansion of the membership circle, institutional memory of this agreement is perplexed, both in the EU institutions and in the EU Member States. In this perspective, too, our contribution to the development of the countries that last joined this cooperation is of importance to us. It shows the flag. However, the Committee stresses that this is a voluntary scheme, not something to which we are legally obliged. At the end of the contract, the obligation is only to assess the need for continued contributions. The fact that Spain is now out of the scheme shows that this is not automatic. In terms of scale and device, I do not spend time on this, but refer to the setting. It is no secret that the EU's starting point in the negotiations was a significant increase – a highly unreasonable requirement. On this basis, the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, may agree with the Government that the outcome of the negotiations was ‘high, but acceptable’, in view of expected inflation and that the agreement now applies for seven years, not five. The main priorities of the programme are the same in both schemes. The environment and climate continue to be the main area. In view of the migration situation in Europe, cooperation in this area is strengthened, in particular in relation to Greece, in line with previous signals from the Stortinget. 1 pst. the funds under the Norwegian Financial Mechanism shall be used for decent work measures, in line with the wishes of the social partners. The new element of this agreement is the creation of a specific fund for regional cooperation, which opens up enhanced cooperation with, inter alia, the Member States. Ukraine and Moldova. This agreement also contains detailed rules that ensure good management and control of implementation, a common responsibility for both parties. The size shall also approve the agreement on trade in fish. It has taken a long time to put these agreements in place, and we have been without such an agreement since the last date of 30 April 2014, which the EU must bear a primary responsibility for. I'm sorry. The Government considers that the agreement entered into significantly improves market access to the EU. Re-disposals of a number of unused duty-free allowances have been made against the opening of large, new quotas for fillet products of mackerel and herring products. However, the Committee points out that we have not been able this time to see the need to eliminate a number of insignificant tariffs that would simplify the trade regime between the EU and Norway and that there was no agreement on permanent quota schemes this time either. We also remember the Innst. 101 S for 2015-2016 to the ‘Globalisation and Trade’ Storing Communication, where a majority points out that access to the market for Norwegian maritime food exports is based on ‘a patchwork of agreements and fixed-term allowances’. Although the agreement on market access for fish to the EU is considered to be an improvement from the expired agreement, a large majority of the Committee stresses the concern that Norwegian seafood can face more demanding market conditions and reiterates the need to work for safer framework conditions for maritime food exports through better trade agreements, including with regard to the European market. The center part and SV have a slightly different view of parts of the setting, which I expect they themselves to explain and justify. But I think more than myself is surprised that the Senterpartiet – and SV, for that matter – believes that the fishing industry lives well with the customs rates in our nearest and most important export market, our European neighbouring country. I think the fishing industry notices that. With this, I recommend that the Storting consent to the ratification of the agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3662	It is in line with Norway’s basic position when, together with the other EEA/EFTA countries Iceland and Liechtenstein, since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement in 1994, we have contributed to economic and social cohesion in Europe through the EEA financing agreements, not least because this serves Norwegian interests and contributes to increased cooperation and strengthening of bilateral relations in Europe. The agreement on the financial instruments for the period 2014 to 2021 was finally signed on 3 May of this year following a previous long and demanding negotiation process which ended last June. It was followed by a time-consuming procedure on the EU side. The agreement also provides a framework for the so-called Norway Grants and an additional protocol to the Free Trade Agreement with Norway on trade in fish. The government deserves commendation for a good process management and for negotiating a good agreement for Norway. The contractual period for the EEA funds is extended to seven years. Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein shall contribute SEK 2.8 billion over the period. EUR, corresponding to a total of 26,6 billion. kr, where Norway finances everything essential, about 97 pst. Depending on the exchange rate, Norway’s annual contribution is about 3.3 billion. kr to the 15 least prosperous countries of Europe. Two separate funds totaling 100 million. the euro is reserved for youth employment, regional cooperation projects and strengthening bilateral cooperation between Norway and the beneficiary countries. The negotiations on market access for fish and fish products have been conducted in parallel and agreement on the EEA contributions provided for a satisfactory solution in this area for Norway, i.e. improved market access for the marine food industry. When the new agreement enters into force for the autumn, Norwegian seafood industry has in fact been without such an agreement for more than two years because the previous free-quota agreements expired with the old EEA financial instruments in April 2014. It's unfortunate. This has taken too long, and the delays are on the EU side. As regards further work on securing framework conditions and improving trade agreements for Norwegian maritime food exports, including duty-free market access for Norwegian maritime food to the EU market, there is a high priority for the government. The EEA funds provide a unique opportunity to participate in European cooperation and to strengthen links and relations between Norway and the recipient countries at different levels — political, economic and cultural. Together on a green, competitive and inclusive Europe is the government's vision for cooperation. The aim is to enable Norway to contribute to increased security and security in Europe and to strengthen the EU’s competitiveness and growth in the global economy. To achieve this, it is essential that Norway now establish a more strategic use of EEA funds. The funds shall be targeted at innovation, research, education and action for increased mobility in the European labour market. They must strengthen Europe's energy security and contribute to offensive climate and environmental policies, i.e. to the transition to a more green economy. The agreement also opens up to extend police and judicial cooperation between Norway and the recipient countries, including joint efforts to address migration challenges. The development of the rule of law in some EU countries can also become a topic for negotiating detailed agreements with the different beneficiary countries. There is reason to reiterate the importance of the EU and EEA Agreement for Norway, for the creation of value added and well-being at home. 75 pst.-80 pst. of our exports go to the EU, and the agreement gives us duty-free market access to 31 countries with 500 million people. The internal market is the bottom line of European cooperation and Norway’s partnership with the EU, and it is more important than ever in the light of the complex challenge picture that characterises Europe. However, the EEA Agreement is about something more. It is not just about market access, economics and financial instruments, but about relationships and values. In most areas, we rely on European cooperation and finding good solutions in the community to promote national interests. When the EEA Financial Mechanisms Agreement is ratified, we wish the government good luck with the negotiations on framework agreements with the 15 beneficiary countries on the facility – the retail use of funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3692	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good job, both in writing in the committee and orally right now. In that sense, there is almost no need to say anything more, I think, not least after the previous speeches, which also briefed and explained. In addition, it is not that long since we had an EEA and EU debate here in the Chamber, where several of us came into this particular agreement here, which has been a long-term agreement. Just that it's taken about two years, says his, so finally we get it to be ratified – and more or less unanimous, except for a little bit from the Center Party and to some extent SV. I just want to stress that I am pleased that the government will give priority to using these EEA funds for innovation, research and education, among other things, and in addition extend police and judicial cooperation between Norway and the beneficiary countries. Now that Norwegian companies, municipalities, researchers, social partners and non-governmental organisations are allowed to participate in programmes, I cannot stress enough the importance of marketing and informing about this over the whole country, both in Norway and in the beneficiary countries, that it is being continued and done with. At least there are feedback I have received for several years, how little it is known, especially among business. I see no need to extend the debate, as it is the last case, so I would just like to wish you luck and hope that the Council of State will take these points with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3701	In this case, the Centre Party has a slightly different view than the multiple points. I want to draw for a three-minute post on the EEA funds afterwards and focus on market access for fish in this post. Just over 20 years ago, the EU’s followers thought that Norway had to register in the EU, otherwise customs duties would almost stop the export of Norwegian fish. EU followers saw fewer problems with the fact that Norway would lose control of Norwegian fishing resources. Whoever had the ownership of the fish seemed to be less significant than how much percentage customs duty it was put on him. During the EU fight, after the fact that the EEC struggle, in 1972, had no-moved a glittering slogan: No to the hall of Norway! Interestingly, some of those who did not see problems in losing Norwegian control of Norwegian fishing resources during the EU fight last year were active in the No to the Hall of the Norway Campaign. The centre party is criticised today to underestimate the interpretation of customs duties on Norwegian fish, especially now that we can soon face a major debate on the Norwegian association to the TTIP agreement. I am pleased with the debate that has been raised. The centre party wants a debate based on facts and our historical experience with the effects of changes in customs duties on fish. EU and emerging TTIP defenders are trying to use fish as arguments for weakening Norwegian independence and linking Norway closer to the EU. In other words, there are good reasons to go into the facts in this debate. I would like to quote directly from a report prepared at the University of Tromsø in 2011: ‘The conclusion of the studies carried out in this report is that there is actually no example of countries that have completely removed customs duties, as a result of which there has been a strong increase in imports of Norwegian fish. There is no empirical support for the assumption that the removal of customs duties will result in strong growth in Norwegian fish exports or income to Norwegian fishing industry. This is therefore not statistically significant. [[...]] If the report from the University of Tromsø is correct, this changes much of the premise in the debate on Norwegian trade policy. Last year, NUPI launched the book ‘Interest Conflicts in Norwegian Trade Policy’. One of the problems that is being tried to draw is that Norwegian agriculture is hindering the export of Norwegian fish. During a meeting about the book, it was asked if NUPI had data that showed the correlation between changes in customs duties on fish and changes in exported quantities. The whole premise that there should be a conflict between agriculture and fish must be that current rates of customs duties on Norwegian fish are to a considerable extent detrimental to fish exports. The relationship between changes in customs rates and exports of fish had no evidence whatsoever between the NUPI. In the media, the representative Svein Roald Hansen is quoted as saying that ‘there is almost no longer any processing of fish in Norway, and there is no doubt that it is due to customs barriers’. Can the representative Hansen refer to a single enterprise that reduced production in Norway due to customs duties? If he can't, how can he complain to the Centre to minimize the impact of customs? Clearly, there is a need for such a study as the Centre Party suggests. When Findus and Frionor shut down operations in Norway, all the white fish products had their zero-customs regardless of their degree of processing. Today, we see that Norway does not fill its duty-free quotas on processed fish products, and that the EU government has therefore proposed replacing this with other products. Just to facilitate a knowledge-based debate, today from the Centre Party, we would like to make a suggestion. Here we are asked by the government to prepare a study showing the correlation between changes in the exported quantity of all relevant varieties of Norwegian fish and changes in the customs rates of these species, from 1990 until today. When the representative Hansen, formerly a leader of the Europa pipeline, thinks that I am de minimising customs duties on Norwegian fish, I expect him to support this proposal. Everybody's gonna get the facts on the table, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3731	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3734	I'm taking up the submission from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3739	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3742	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good proposal – a good'soccer' for an important debate. It is SVs and also Norway's hold that the EEA funding scheme is something we should have, not something we need. We have a moral obligation to contribute to both economic and social justice in Europe, but the foundation is also because justice and security in Europe are in Norway's interest and will promote cooperation between countries. This is particularly true in southern and eastern Europe, where social problems are greatest – that is where we find the poorest countries in Europe. SV supports actions in these countries. The SV also called for Ukraine and Moldova to be able to be supported through these schemes, but there has been a problematic development in recent years, which SV in this round asks questions. Firstly, whenever the EEA Finance Facility is operational, the amount is significantly increased. In the 2004 and 2007 extensions, the amount went up a lot and required the same amount. The inclusion of Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia was a small extension for the EU, but has had a strong impact on the EEA funding mechanism. Secondly, studies show that the measures have led to a small increase in social justice, and it is therefore in place for everyone to ask whether one with the funds achieves the original objective. Then to market access for fish. There have been parallel negotiations alongside the EEA financing mechanism. It has a significant impact on the Norwegian fishing industry, and it is positive that an agreement has exchanged unused free quotas to strengthen market access for other parts of fisheries, simply processed seafood. But it is not wise to exchange market access against customs. It conflicts with the principle of mutual influence, balance between rights and obligations of the EEA Agreement and is broken when a party has to pay for reciprocal market access. It is also unsound to claim that the decline in certain parts of the Norwegian maritime food industry – as claimed by someone in this Chamber is completely gone – is just about customs barriers. I quote the saxe spokesman, Svein Roald Hansen: ‘The processing of fish in Norway is almost non-existent and there is no doubt that it is due to the customs barriers.’ I mean, there's two errors in one sentence. Firstly, since the European Minister for Fisheries, who is formerly the Minister for Fisheries, can confirm the monthly processing of fish in Norway today, and the fact that the decline has caused customs barriers, he does not find any support to claim in e.g. The government's recent communication on the maritime food industry, which was largely backed by the same minister. It shows that what is a major obstacle to the marine food industry is capable of exploiting more of the raw material, of exploiting production equipment through more parts of the year by not being sufficiently capable of exploiting new technologies, and not least the overall cost evolution of Norway over the past 20 years. Customs barriers are only a small part of this, and it's very unsound, to say that, what the representative Hansen claims, there's no doubt that the whole decline has caused customs barriers. And I also think that the seafood industry notices, that there's a little unyanized claim here in this debate. Maybe that's exactly why it should be in everyone's interest to get more knowledge of this, perhaps get involved in the issues we've already dealt with, but also gain more knowledge about the relationship between customs duties and export margins. We in SV can't understand that it should be problematic to give support to it. We support the proposal from the Central Party, and I also encourage the other parties to help us get knowledge on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3758	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for having shown great goodwill and prioritized to dealing with this matter before the end of the session this spring. The EEA funds are, as many have mentioned, Norway’s solidarity contribution to social and economic development in Europe. EEA funds contribute to growth and development in Europe, which is Norway’s main export market. The funds shall also contribute to strengthening bilateral relations between Norway and the beneficiary countries. It is therefore designed to facilitate, inter alia: Norwegian enterprises, researchers, municipalities, social partners and non-governmental organisations may participate in cooperation projects with EU countries. The new agreements with the EU on new EEA financial instruments mean that the funding period has been extended from five to seven years, i.e. 2014 to 2021. The EU’s exit requirements were 84 p.m. increase, while the final result was about 11 pst. increase in the annual contributions. Inflation in the EU during the five-year period before the negotiations took place was total about 10.7 p.m. This implies that there was only a marginal real increase in contributions compared to the previous period. As a central part of the follow-up to an active European policy, the government has very ambitious objectives for a more targeted use of EEA funds in the years to come. We will increase efforts to improve Europe's competitiveness and create a forward-looking internal market. The aim is to stimulate innovation, growth and jobs through innovation, research and education. At the same time, we should use EEA funds to strengthen Europe's energy security and contribute to offensive climate policies. We will also increase support for police and judicial cooperation between Norway and the recipient countries, including asylum and migration cooperation. All European countries have a common responsibility here. Furthermore, we also want to strengthen minority participation in politics and social life and protect their rights. Parts of the support will be earmarked to improve the living conditions of space people. At the same time, we continue to support civil society and a private fund to promote cooperation between social partners. This also includes measures to combat cross-border labour-life crime. Let me also now take the opportunity to highlight some good examples from the current period, from a few of my trips to the beneficiary countries. In Estonia, we have had great success with the Green Industrial Innovation programme. It has brought together professional environments across borders and created new and smart solutions in areas such as energy monitoring, welfare technologies and environmental technologies. It is particularly gratifying that these projects have led to cooperation on their own, even after the end of the support period. When I recently visited Tallinn University of Technology, I also learned more about a scientific cooperation project with the University of Bergen, funded by the bilateral research programme. The research concerns communication between nerve cells relevant to diseases such as Alzheimer’s, Huntington’s disease, autism and depression. This is a very good example of the use of EEA funds for applied research in a bilateral context. Another important area of activity, both in the previous period and in the new period, is the inclusion of vulnerable groups. Education is the way out of poverty for many space people in Europe. Early school leaving increases in the first row the possibility of children completing primary school, but also for more people taking longer-term higher education. Bulgaria is a country with a large population of space. However, it is a challenge that children from space families are not liquid in Bulgarian when they start school. This is due, inter alia, to: that there is little childcare provision and that space people live and live in isolation from the Bulgarian-speaking majority in the country. For this reason, it is important that children receive a preschool offer with language training, so that they are better equipped when the school course starts seriously. We have used EEA funds in Bulgaria for, inter alia: Preschools for rum children in Sofia. This shows that the EEA funds are used on vulnerable groups and benefit some of the weakest in Europe. We are now going into a hectic period of negotiations with 15 recipient countries about the device on the funds. I want to keep Stortinget informed about progress and results. The agreements on new EEA funds are a concrete follow-up to the government’s work programme for cooperation with the EU. I am convinced that we have already achieved a great deal with the EEA funds and that, with the approval of the Stortinget today, everything is at the heart of helping us to create a green, competitive and inclusive Europe with the new EEA funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3785	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3788	‘It is also important, in the Committee’s view, that the population of both Norway and the respective beneficiary countries be made aware of the programmes and their results through various information measures.’ If there is one comment from the Centre Party that I think is in place in the vote on the new financing scheme for EEA funds, it is precisely this one. The feedback I get from people when they hear about Norway's rights through EEA funds is very rare, to say the least, that they get too much information about these funds. On the contrary, few in particular have been given information about how much Norway actually has in such funds. Even fewer people have been told what the funds are actually going to. Words like transparency and openness are nice, but they're not worth it if they're not followed up in practice. With this comment from a Consolent Committee, a clear task has been given from the collation to the government: Inform Norwegian chooses more about what these funds are going to do. The centre batch is criticised for not supporting the high and increasing permissions of EEA media. Of course, it is quite legitimate to think that we should increase the use of EEA funds and criticise the Central Party for our opposition. I welcome the debate and would like to take part in it. I have no doubt that Norway can tackle poverty more effectively in ways other than by giving permissions to EEA funds. It has been said by the National Audit Office in 2013, that it is uncertain whether it can be demonstrated that it has actually been more social and economic bias. In the European message, questions are asked about this. The majority point out in its comments that the EEA funds are to be channelled through programmes, not individual projects. I hope that this will not make it more difficult to abandon the use of EEA funds, which should not happen, following a joint committee. Because it's interesting to see what the EEA funds are allowed to do. Let me give you a few examples: on the EEA money information page, you can see that we want 10 million. kr to finance the museum of contemporary art in Sofia, and one can read that Norway has pledged nearly 50 million. kr to the building that houses Polish art from the 19th century. Of course, it is nice to contribute to this, but there is a vital Norwegian interest to benefit from 50 million. Is that what you want? I think we can use the money more efficiently and better. In the revised national budget, the government writes that the new EEA scheme will cost 82 million. kr this year - only for administrative expenses. The center party will cut the costs and use the resources to train the Home Office more than we do today. We can fund the annual training of all civil protection soldiers in Norway for the money, and we know that the defense lacks the means to do it. I think it's particularly interesting that the Progress Party is an avid fan of prioritizing the funds in such a way. I expect the government to follow up the comments of the Committee and to put forward more debate on the use of Norwegian EEA funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3805	Let me first fix a problem in the settings. It concerns page 7, right column, third paragraph from below. It says that the majority will refer to « Report. St. 101 S’. Unfortunately, we have not received so many messages – or fortunately – from the government this year. It's going to be Innst. 101 S for 2015–2016 to Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. So the debate on customs and fish. Of course, it is true that it is not the tariffs alone that have made it difficult to have higher fish exports to the EU. This also applies to the level of costs to which Knag County pointed. But the higher the cost level we have, the more important it is to get rid of a trade barrier like customs. I think that should be quite obvious. That customs does not matter to trade – it is the first barrier to trade to any free trade agreement, so this theory that customs suddenly does not matter to fish exports is quite original. I don't think we need to have any major investigation to figure out that customs is a trade barrier that you should get rid of. Most of the free trade agreements involve a zero duty, and as it has become a fairly large network, the trade agreements will also involve other elements. I don't know who Navarsete is aiming for with TTIP defenders. That's an agreement we're not part of, and if there's a TTIP agreement between the EU and the United States, at least I'm part of those who would say that then I think Norway and EFTA have a dilemma. It's going to be hard to know exactly how we're going to deal with that situation. Our EFTA partner Switzerland has tried to look at the possibilities of negotiating a free trade agreement with the United States, and when they discovered what it could say on the agricultural side, it quickly ended that attempt. That's the dilemma we'll be faced with, too, so it's not a simple solution. I don't think that dilemma comes to us very quickly, to say it that way, as the situation looks in the United States, but it remains to be seen. In terms of information on the funds, it is important. Then we are in a world today where reaching out to the population is not as simple as it was before, but I can recommend the representative Navarsete to follow EFTA on Twitter. Then there will regularly be small drops of information about what these means have gone into.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3821	There can be no doubt that the solution we have obtained in the negotiated agreement on improved market access to the EU for processed products is very important for the Norwegian fishing industry and for the fishing industry. With regard to the comments and proposals for a study of the Centre Party, I would like to remind you that the Government has recently presented the Maritime Food Industry Communication, which makes it clear that access to key inputs such as raw materials, labour and capital, as well as market access – with two lines under market access – is central to the competitiveness of the maritime food and maritime food industries. The fact that there has been an increase in exports over the past 25 years cannot be taken as proof that EU customs duties are not effective. Seafood industry itself has shown in several consultations here on the Storting, at the latest in the context of the globalisation notification and the maritime food industry notification, that customs duties on the EU market are very negative and that their removal could provide a basis for increased value creation in Norway. Obviously, when you meet with 13 pst. customs duties on e.g. smoked salmon is not particularly high in its potential to smoke salmon in Norway and to be able to sell it when the Polish processing industry imports the salmon as a raw material and processes it there. I simply note that the centre party is on a radical collision course with what is a requirement of an overall industry, both from the fisheries and industry sides, that this with better market access and lower customs duties must continue to be a priority work for the government. It will continue to be vis-à-vis the EU and in other contexts globally, where there will be negotiations on improved market access. We have a fantastic fishing industry in Norway, we have a fantastic fishing industry, not least we have an enormously exciting breeding industry, but the potential for which we can get out of these industries is closely linked to market access and what opportunities we have to be competitive in the markets. And I would like to stress that even low rates of duty can be of great importance in being competitive in a industry where the margins are often very small.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3832	Then I noted the statements made by Hansen in the last ANB.no as a tip formulation, i.e. he did not mean what he said about the fact that there was no doubt that the decline in the production of fish came from customs barriers, as it says on that website right now. That was my point: I accept that customs has meaning, but to reduce this to just a question of customs I respond to. Market access is, of course, the most important thing. The ongoing negotiations that Norway now has with Malaysia, Vietnam, the Philippines and, not least, India, are seen by the seafood industry in Norway as extremely important – and very exciting markets to enter. Mercosur countries in South America are seen as particularly important to enter. Furthermore, individual countries in Africa, such as Angola and Nigeria, are considered extremely important to enter. I can buy that kind of question, but to reduce this and all the problems for Norwegian seafood industry until a customs issue is unfurnished. My alarm for this went out when I saw the sentence for Svein Roald Hansen. Because on the one hand there is a reduction to a question of customs, and on the other hand, in the eagerness to get this to one and only to be a customs debate, one claims that there is almost no more fish production in Norway. It's also demonstrably crazy; it's just reading the maritime industry message from the government. It is clear that we want to produce much more fish in Norway than we do today, but the way to do it goes through far more than just customs: greater use of technology, more use of production equipment for more parts of the year, etc. There's a lot of sides here that play in. So I think everyone is wise to get proper facts on the table when it relates to the relationship between customs rates and quantities of fish, because it could also help to inform this debate – in addition, I would say, the very good analysis that the government did in the maritime industry message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3843	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3846	I record that the representative Svein Roald Hansen did not answer my question and the challenge I gave, so I want to repeat the challenge, as well as that I will support the previous speech in his very good and nuanced contributions. My challenge was: can the representative Hansen refer to a single enterprise that has reduced its production in Norway due to customs barriers? When he's as clear as he's been in the media today, and he owes us to minimize this, one must at least have so much knowledge that one can present some facts in the matter and not spread myths – unsound myths. Yes, customs obviously have a meaning, but it's not like it's made by some, that it's just customs that's important for us to get an even greater growth in the huge future industry like fisheries and aquaculture are for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3855	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3861	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3868	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-14, by Jorodd Asphjell, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Left and Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3880	President! My screen isn't working.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3885	- Is it clear now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3888	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3893	I don't understand what the problem is. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3896	I can't start up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3901	He gets to take another place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3906	Then there's someone who's registered on the voice of the people or what it's called, that's right across the board. If the screen works there, we'll be good for you if you get hung out! – You remind me a bit of a distant past in the legal reading room. After eight hours of nose spaced between legal perms, it's amazing how little you laugh at! I remember losing a 50-eyed one time – it really hit! [[Laughter]] Ok – now we have the representative Bohemian. That in itself can be a challenge. [[Laughter]] But taking into account the weight of the script I have in my hand, there's every reason to believe that we should get started. So we vote first on proposal No. 16, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for legislative changes to eliminate preparations for terrorism as a basis for implementing the use of coercive measures for the abstinence, in accordance with the proposal of the Methodological Control Committee’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3932	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 4–7 and 12–14, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an impact assessment of the different actions in Prop. 68 L will affect source protection and return to the Storting with an assessment of measures to ensure effective source protection.’» [[2015-2016]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for a general rule on the use of hidden coercive measures, the general rule being that the police do not use methods that can reveal the sources of journalists and that there should be exceptions to this rule. Among the exceptions it is natural to assess are, for example: to avert a related terrorist attack, to investigate participation in terrorist organisations or acts, or if the journalist himself is suspected in the case.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that communication control to localise communication facilities has the same threshold for use as technical tracking and that proposals to amend the law are promoted accordingly.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to restrict police access to false base stations in order to locate communication facilities by either maintaining the restriction to locations where false base stations may be used to ‘places where suspicion is suspected’, possibly limiting the time period for such telecommunication-based patrols to be used, and/or tightening up the penalties that allow the use of methods to limit them to the most serious cases, and putting forward the proposal for amendments to the Storting.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to take into account the fact that it is the court that decides to suspend the notification of suspected persons, in the event of seizure, extradition orders and extradition orders in the future, that it may follow judicial review in due course, and that any proposal to amend the criminal proceedings law, § 208a, first paragraph, § 210a, and the first paragraph of § 210c, is promoted accordingly.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a court order when the police are to obtain traffic data from telecommunications companies.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop supervisory procedures for the security of the software developed or purchased by the Norwegian police so that they do not render Norwegian citizens unnecessarily vulnerable.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop procedures for the uninstalling of software used for data reading when it is no longer needed, and asks the government to consider establishing the principles for them and to make proposals for the Storting in the form of law.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish clear criteria for reporting on the use of data reading, including: the number of cases and the types of information collected.’;» The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e3991	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the Communications Control Committee in order to assess whether there is sufficient capacity and competence to exercise the necessary oversight. The evaluation must also assess whether the sample has sufficient independence to exercise oversight.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4509	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee in Section 211. The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4522	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of Article 216m, first paragraph, points (b) and (c). The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4535	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4553	The Committee shall be called upon to give its opinion on the suspension of point (b) of the first paragraph of Article 216o. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4567	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4585	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on point (a) of the second paragraph of Section 222d. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4598	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4615	The Committee shall be called upon to give its opinion on the suspension of the third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 222d. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4628	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the light of the wording of the Constitution, the Government is asked by the majority of the Committee on Methodological Control and two independent legal discussions, to propose amendments to the law limiting the use of data for prevention purposes to the most serious cases, mainly for the prevention of acts of terrorism and terrorist associations.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4644	The Committee is called upon to set up a new Chapter 16 d. Data reading, the rest of § 216 o, § 216 p, the rest of § 222 d first to third paragraphs and § 17 d first and second paragraphs. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4657	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on the remainder of I, the remainder of II and III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4666	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4669	President! SV shall vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4680	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review and evaluate the use of data reading before five years have elapsed and to present the results appropriately to the Stortinget’. The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4989	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e4998	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5005	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Lise Wiik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Swedish Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal to include in the Patient Rights Act § 5-1 the possibility that access to the file should not be granted to parents and custodians if there is a risk of a criminal investigation, with the possible exception that a temporarily appointed person may be entitled to have access to the child’s patient record when parents are suspected of criminal offences against his or her own children.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5032	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision requests the Government to make proposals which clarify the removal obligation in Section 196 of the Criminal Code and which state that notification shall be the general rule under this provision.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5048	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a legislative proposal as soon as possible to revise and coordinate the legislation relating to professional secrecy, disclosure obligations and information rights, including the rules on cooperation between different services and establishments, and the rules on consent, so that several cases relating to violence and abuse can be identified and properly followed up.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a legislative proposal during the autumn of 2016 to revise and clarify the health professionals Act § 25, first and third paragraphs.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to increase its knowledge of the law and to facilitate the proper understanding of the law in its practice of the law regulating the obligation to provide information, transparency, resuscitation, professional secrecy, disclosure and information.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to review and, where appropriate, to make proposals that revise or clarify the abolition obligation in Section 196 of the Criminal Code, which provisions are subject to the abolition obligation, and to make the content of the abolition obligation better known among the employees of the institutions.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to improve the flow of information and cooperation between the various agencies, including child protection, health care, police, kindergarten, school and Nav.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Board asks the Government to consider restrictions on, or suspension of, the right of access to the file and the right of access of the parties to documents relating to child protection matters to the police’s needs for the provision of certain information in the interests of the risk of evidence in which the case is being investigated, and to promote a case in this regard.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to make § 19 of the Administrative Act on Exemptions from Party Transparency in the case documents of the Child Protection Service better known to the relevant agencies, including assessing changes in laws affecting relevant establishments, such as the Child Protection Act and the Health Care Act.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5135	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1-3 from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Norway accedes to the provisions of the Schengen Agreement on border control.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of border controls at all Norwegian border crossings and asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for the necessary changes to existing laws.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the other Nordic countries to discuss the possibility of restoring Nordic border cooperation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5163	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a big deal on alternatives to the Schengen Agreement.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5232	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Margunn Ebbesen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to secure its own institutions for children and young people who commit sexual assaults in order to prevent those who commit sexual assaults and children who are victims of sexual abuse from being placed in the same institution. In this context, it is necessary to review the legislation in order to ensure the necessary remedies to prevent children from committing further abuses while living at the institution.’.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5260	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is asked to take the initiative to develop a strategy for building up the necessary competences and appropriate treatment measures for children who commit abuse. The Ministry of Health and Welfare and existing environments of competence are included in the work. The government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a strategy that improves the ability of these children to receive good treatment at the right time and adequate follow-up.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5276	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider measures to prevent sexual offenders and children who are victims of sexual abuse from being placed in the same institution. In this context, it is also necessary to review the legislation in order to ensure the necessary remedies to prevent children from committing further abuses while living in an institution.» The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5330	Mr Lauvås has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5333	Very briefly, the debate may have given the impression that we are now establishing that there are ten elected regions in Norway, and that is not true. When we come to the various proposals and to the Committee's position, the Labour Party will vote in favour of the Roman Numeral proposals. I would just like to make it clear, for the sake of order, that this does not mean that we have to establish that there are ten regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5338	So let's take note of that. A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Stein Erik Lauvås, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 8 and 9, by Stein Erik Lauvås, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 10, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 11 and 12, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 13, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government to investigate and submit to the Stortinget proposals on how regional takeovers of the following tasks can be carried out: 1st@item: inlistbox Hospital and rehabilitation operations. 2nd@item: inlistbox Part of the State tasks of child protection and, where appropriate, the regional takeover of municipal tasks where inter-municipal child protection cooperation cannot solve the task. 3rd@item: inlistbox Different parts of nature care and management. 4th@item: inlistbox Overall land-use planning for major infrastructure projects, housing and land-use disposal where regional solutions are required, and in order to achieve climate objectives and enhanced soil protection. 5th@item: inlistbox Regional strengthening of regional research efforts, where the organisation of the Research Council must be part of this investigation. 6th@item: inlistbox Strengthening regional public health work. 7th@item: inlistbox Own income at regional level, including land and sea area charges.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that 95 votes were cast against and 3 votes in favour of the proposal of the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.37.47]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5398	My voice was not registered. I should have voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5403	Then the vote is 95 votes against and 4 votes in favour. If it was not registered, there are still 95 votes against. The proposal by the Socialist Left is therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on task transfer to the county councils in the following areas: 1st@item: inlistbox Hospital management. In the first instance, by removing the regional health establishments and keeping the established hospital establishments, but by governing where a majority is appointed by the county. 2nd@item: inlistbox Transfer of the responsibility for the protection of state children through Bufetat to county municipalities. 3rd@item: inlistbox Transfer of responsibility for the district psychiatric clinics – DPS – from state to county municipality. 4th@item: inlistbox Family protection is transferred from state to county. 5th@item: inlistbox Regional Road Administration responsible for the planning and operation of the county roads is transferred from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. 6th@item: inlistbox The regional apparatus of Innovation Norway is transferred to the counties. 7th@item: inlistbox Parts of the Research Council's programmes are transferred to the counties. Eight. Festival support from the Cultural Council to the county municipalities. 9th@item: inlistbox Cultural memory protection is cultivated as a county task. 10th@item: inlistbox Administrative tasks added to the Environmental and Agricultural Department of the State are transferred to the counties. 11th@item: inlistbox Incidents of predatory game are transferred from the State to the counties. 12th@item: inlistbox Secondary education and vocational schools are continued as municipal tasks. 13th@item: inlistbox Responsibility for public transport is continued as a municipal task. 14th @item: inlistbox Public dental care is continued as a municipal task. ‘... Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case concerning a plan for the allocation of State jobs and competences across the country, in line with an ambition to adopt at least 1000 jobs out of Oslo by the end of 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5472	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a public body investigating the consequences of amended or unchanged electoral regimes for the Grand Duchy and the allocation of mandates by bringing together counties or the creation of regions.’ [[NUE]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5490	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that administrative tasks currently assigned to the State Environment and Agriculture Department are transferred to the regionally elected level.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the distribution of discretionary funds from the State to the municipalities is a task subject to a regionally elected level. The county retains beauty products related to preparedness.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5513	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to provide new responsibilities and funding between state, regions and municipalities in the cultural field.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5529	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that tasks currently performed by the regional state/state that facilitate the use of political judgement, as a general rule, are added to the regionally elected level.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that regional road administration responsible for the planning and operation of the county roads is transferred from the State Road Service to the regionally elected level.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to continue Innovation Norway with regional governments and regional ownership as today.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that regionally elected levels continue to be responsible for secondary education and therefore that trials are not carried out on the transfer of this task to the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide regional instruments for strengthening decentralised higher education.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the regionally elected level continues to be responsible for dental health.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5592	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5794	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5803	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5830	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5912	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e5921	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e6136	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e6145	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e6152	In the debate, the rapporteur explained a typographical error in the Committee's recommendation, the reference in Section 66 of Chapter 8 being to Section 63, not Section 64. During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Norway retains the current law of the Home Office as its law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e7732	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e7741	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e7763	In the course of the debate, all in all, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to prepare a study showing the statistical relationship between changes in the export quantity of all relevant varieties of Norwegian fish and changes in the customs rates of these species, from 1990 until today, to the following markets: All 28 current EU countries, Switzerland, the United States, Russia and China.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e7786	The central party has announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 82 votes were cast for the Committee's vote and 7 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.46.03]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e7795	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e7800	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e7805	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-08.ana.ud2369e7853	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
