ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e73	The representatives of Karin Andersen, Hadia Tajik, Jonas Gahr Støre and Helge Thorheim, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Northern State, Veronica Pedersen, is now taking its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e96	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e114	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e121	Dangerous climate change is already here. 2015 was the warmest measured year in our close history, and people know the climate of the body: drought, which gives crops like faults, hot waves, which means we have to put new colors on the temperature maps, and which kills thousands, floods and ice melting, and an ever-increasing turbulence in the weather, more extreme, is what we're going to see. The drought that drove people from the countryside into the cities of Syria is seen by many as the latest example of how climate change can drive conflict and mass migration situations, and with this as a backstopper, the climate agreement in Paris was a great success. When the Copenhagen climate conference, with today’s Danish Prime Minister, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, spearheaded, hurled and set out to start global climate change for several years, Laurent Fabius and the French managed to land a historic agreement with three main pillars. The first was intensified climate targets, with money for adaptations and work to do something about the funding flows. The other was an agreement covering all countries, all of which undertake to have the highest possible ambitions for their climate obligations. The third was an automatic strengthening of climate targets every five years – for the first time for the collective climate targets in 2018 and then in 2023. Along with this came the recognition that the 55 gigatons in 2030, which are going to be the emissions instead of 40 gigatons, which the world should have if we were to be on the road in order to have a chance to prevent global warming of more than 2 degrees – and even further from the goal of 1.5 degrees – makes such a kind of sharpening necessary. I want to pay tribute to the Committee and the Council of State for the fact that we have managed to gather on a roadmap for the future management and follow-up of the Paris climate agreement. Yesterday, in connection with the Energy Communication, we decided that the 2017 budget will target the various sectors in Norway following the EU's effort-sharing proposals. Today, we decide that the Stortinget will have a case to deal with intensified goals before the dialogue on enhanced collective goals in 2018. Secondly, we will get an overview of the calls from the Paris Agreement and how they will be followed up, by spring 2017. The 2030 targets will be put in place – and the final decisions against them will be put in place as soon as the agreement with the EU is ready. I think it will be part of the EEA Agreement, but we will have to discuss it after the summer and in the future, and that clarification is expected to be some time in 2017 or 2018. There are two political differences that separate us, and on which I would like to spend time. One disagreement concerns whether forest should be included as part of the flexible mechanisms of the non-quota sector in the EU or one. The majority says no. Planting forests, fertilizing forests or not cutting forests to keep from cutting fossil emissions is, in my opinion, wrong for two main reasons: It is necessary to cut fossil emissions. Postponing such emissions makes it harder to achieve the goal of binding more CO2 than what we emit in the second half of the century. Forest stands until it is cut or burned. Fossil emissions from storage resources, coal, oil and gas remain in the atmosphere for a long, long time. The other thing about which there is political disagreement is even more serious. It is about whether Norway should appear to be fair in the climate negotiations or one, in my opinion. In the 2008 climate agreement, a unanimous increase promised the following: ‘As part of a global and ambitious climate agreement in which other developed countries also assume large commitments, Norway shall have a binding carbon neutrality target by 2030. This means that Norway will provide emission reductions equivalent to Norwegian emissions in 2030.’» The United States has adopted binding emission reductions under Obama. The EU has adopted binding emission reductions. They are called ambitious by the government, most recently in connection with the energy message yesterday, and I quote from the proposition: ‘The Paris Agreement is a breakthrough for global climate cooperation. The agreement is global and sets out an ambitious and long-term direction for global climate cooperation.’ There is no doubt in the majority that the climate agreement's objectives on climate neutrality have been met by the Paris agreement. The Government Parties state the real reason why they are opposed, by letter from yesterday to the Committee – to decide to provide a possible negotiating card without expecting anything from other countries is to charge us great costs. How many times does the government have the decency to use the same negotiation card without payment? My government laid three billion. kr on the table and honoured the 2007 forest betting commitments. When the issue of climate neutrality is addressed here today, the Minister for Climate Change and the Prime Minister show that they only have it in their hands. If the Right really believes that costs are too high, they should have thought about it in 2008 and 2012, rather than after the majority, as we see it, has actually been able to contribute to an international agreement that is both ambitious and long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e159	The President would like to point out that ‘just keep it in mind’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e162	Our responsibility for the future is clear from the Paris agreement. It now lies there as a good foundation. It shall be legally binding. The climate agreement is real and has global participation from all countries. The aim now is for all countries to work to keep the increase in global average temperature well below 2 degrees and to limit temperature rise to 1.5 degrees. In the second half of the century, the target is net zero emissions. The Paris Agreement is not only global – it is also very ambitious. In Stortinget we discussed this in detail after the presentation. There is no doubt that there was a long way to the Paris Agreement. It took a long time to get the agreement in place, so it is now a pleasure to be able to carry out a rapid ratification of the Paris Agreement. The challenges lie ahead of us. We don't know exactly what the consequences are, but it's obvious that there are consequences. Rapid ratification should mean that we also need to get started quickly on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Norway shall cut the emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. It will be on challenges, we have recognised, but also many opportunities. We want to, even yesterday's debate, look constructively for opportunities, look for opportunities to develop Norway further and provide a framework for our society to adapt to the low-carbon society in a good way. In the case, this with carbon neutrality has become a central part and a central discussion. Through the Committee's examination, the Committee has agreed that it was now appropriate to speed up the target and achieve the climate-relations from 2008 and 2012, where we want Norway to be carbon-neutralised, i.e. Norway to ensure emission reductions equivalent to Norwegian emissions from 2030. We have registered that the government parties have left this after the committee gave its opinion, and after the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee had the matter for its opinion. I think it's a little too bad. Climate differences from 2008 and 2012 had deserved to be followed up by Stortinget through the current state of play. I believe – like the rapporteur – that there is a clear commitment for us. When we see the consequences of previous decisions and earlier settlements, that doesn't mean that one should back out of it. No strategic assessments were taken into account in 2008 or 2012. That the government is now considering using this issue further as a strategic negotiating situation, we do not think it is right. We have repeatedly stated very clearly that we believe that the basis for fulfilling and committing ourselves now to carbon neutrality in 2030 has been present. We've heard the government's arguments. We were therefore very pleased that we got a total collapse behind such an important decision on the way forward. But it looks like the Storting might not be fully assembled about it afterwards. I would also, like the rapporteur, like to point out the discussion about the forest. I believe that the rapporteur has a good, well-founded basis. At the same time, the Storting agrees that forest should be part of the additional ambitions assumed by Norway. At least I am very pleased that we are doing this together, even though there is some disagreement, as the rapporteur explained in connection with it. We choose to look at the Paris Agreement as a good opportunity for the way forward. How we're going to develop society, and how we're going to facilitate that we're going to be able to live good lives while we have high value creation, etc. in the future, become essential elements in which the Storing must engage. And we have to step up our efforts in the future. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good job on behalf of the committee. He has arranged for a good attitude and good proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e179	The Paris Agreement is historic. For the first time, there is a legally binding agreement with real global participation from all countries. The agreement provides a clear direction for future global efforts. The agreement has an overall objective of limiting global warming to well below 2 degrees and a target of net zero emissions – climate neutrality – in the second half of the century. This case is essentially about Norway committing itself to comply with the provisions of the Paris Agreement. The attitude of the Committee and the media debate in retrospect have shown that there is political disagreement in the interpretation of some points of the agreement. Nor is it possible to undermine the political disagreement on when and how to achieve goals. We fully agree with the rapporteur that we should be ambitious on behalf of the nation in terms of emissions targets. I mean, we are. Norway's 2030 target, which we reported in negotiations, was a reduction of at least 40 pst. compared to 1990 levels. Ambitious goals are pursued by ambitious policies. Last night, the Stortinget adopted an energy message with clear targets and ambitions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and a more efficient use of energy. Norway is perhaps the country in the world with the highest share of renewable energy in its energy mix. Now we're going to build on this and cut emissions while building green competitiveness. Climate challenges require committed and credible global cooperation. Our starting point is that the emphasis should be on promoting the overall global ambitions of the Paris Agreement. Our goal is to appear to be a credible and predictable partner, and we should deal with the course that has been made as a result of the agreement. That is why we must be very sorry that we support IV in the Committee's position by incurrency, and we are going to vote against that proposal. The consequences of the proposal can be great both for the negotiation process and for the Norwegian economy, and I refer in this context to letters from the Council of State in response to questions from the Committee. A decision now to speed up carbon neutrality by 2030 implies that Norway should provide a possible future negotiating card without expecting an increase in the level of ambition from other countries. At the same time, we take on potentially large costs – it can be in the order of 20 billion. kr per year. The fact that there is so much uncertainty in the calculations suggests that we should be careful with such decisions. Following the Paris Agreement’s own system, it is the global review in 2018 and the notification of national contributions by 2020 that is the natural time. Providing acceleration, as an incentive for other countries to increase their ambition level, would have far more opportunity to deliver international effects. We cannot solve the climate crisis alone, nationally, we must solve it together, globally. Therefore, the Committee also disagrees on the use of market mechanisms to achieve climate neutrality. The agreement establishes a new centralised market-based mechanism. The mechanism will enable all countries to contribute to the implementation of emission reduction measures in other countries and receive credits that can be used to implement their emission targets. Over the last eight years, Norway has had 17 billion. The aim of the REDD+ programme is to make tropical rainforest a fully-fledged part of a global climate regime. Rainforest exposure may become important for achieving climate neutrality in a cost-effective way by Norway, without reducing national ambitions for the reduction of fossil greenhouse gas emissions. Yes, we need to be ambitious and impatient on behalf of the nation to make the best possible contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in order to achieve the objectives of the agreement. Nevertheless, we believe that the best result in a global perspective will be that we relate to that period and the process set in the agreement. It makes us a predictable and credible partner. The aim must be that as many of the countries commit to the agreement as possible as quickly as possible, so that we can move quickly to a common promise for a better climate and a better environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e198	Let me start by saying that in the event of an incursion, the Progress Party is also behind IV in the setting, which we should not have done, and of course we will not support it when it comes to voting. I had expected the case rapporteur to mention this in his post, but this did not happen. Climate change is a global challenge that requires international cooperation. The purpose of the agreement is ambitious and can only be achieved if all major issuing countries become parties to the agreement, deliver and follow up their contributions. The conclusion of the agreement reached at the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris gives reason to believe that many countries will sign and ratify the agreement. Although the agreement is a international agreement and thus legally binding on the countries, individual obligations are limited. The contributions of individual countries shall be determined at national level and the Parties shall implement national measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with a view to achieving the objectives of their contributions. The agreement facilitates cooperation between countries and the implementation of internationally agreed contributions, including emission reductions. The growth of global greenhouse gas emissions has been concentrated in developing countries in recent years. The greenhouse gas emissions of developing countries now account for about two thirds of global emissions. If the long-term objectives of the UNFCCC are to be achieved, it will be necessary to soften the rigid bipartition resulting from the Convention and the Kyoto Protocol, so that all countries make up their contribution to a more global agreement. Including greenhouse gas emissions in forests and other land areas is the world's total emissions of about 50 billion. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. In comparison, according to the SSB, Norway’s total emissions were 53.2 million. tonnes in 2014. Including the uptake of greenhouse gases into forests and other land areas, the SSB estimates Norwegian emissions to be 27.1 million. tonnes of CO2 in the same year. As for most other countries in the world, Norway’s emissions of greenhouse gases account for a small proportion of total emissions. Therefore, what Norway can do to be with and influence other countries is important — and perhaps the most important — in reality. Norway has ambitious targets, and so should we in the future. But it is the overall global emissions that are the challenge. Then I would like to refer to the letter that the State Council Helgesen sent yesterday to the Stortinget, where he comments on questions from the Committee IV and the meaning it has. Here I think it is important that Norway has good cards on hand. A good short hand is not that Norway should escape its obligations, but to be able to participate and influence other countries in the process that is now under way. If you adopt IV today, you'll actually be playing off a good opportunity in that way. I think that is really rather sad, because, as the letter from the Council of State shows, we do not fully know the consequences of that proposal – the importance it has for Norwegian jobs, the importance it will have for Norwegian industry, the importance it will have for Norwegian jobs living from exports to abroad. The worst thing we can do is adopt a climate policy that distorts Norwegian business and the jobs and interests it represents. The Paris Agreement is there, much of the framework is in the cast and is to be designed further, and I would ask the parties to consider once again against voting whether IV can be sent to the government without any real processing in this Chamber, so that the government can return to that proposal and that question in the context of the forthcoming government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e223	In the range of climate issues this spring, this is the most important. It was with great relief that we could conclude that there was an agreement in Paris last fall that brought the world closer to a targeted course conversion in the climate-friendly direction. Now we're going to ratify the agreement, and it's no less than historical. The shumil steps have been taken in a few years, and it's not many years ago, relatively, that the first warnings came and we sat down and listened to talks and saw slides that explained how the greenhouse effect worked. Then they came in line: Al Gore with the documentary «An Inconvenient Truth», the climate panel reports, low-emission samples here at home in Norway, etc. Obviously, everyone has played a role in creating an opinion for change. As politicians, we should take collective self-criticism because we have waited too long to get into action – some to a greater extent than others, but self-criticism is healthy and legitimate for everyone. At the same time, it is a relief to see a broad political consensus, at least on the main features. We wouldn't have seen that just a few years ago in this room. On such a day, I think it's important to have a little bird's eye view and be raw. It's enough of a political intersection when we're going to implement the most challenging, but also the most important, conversion in modern times. We have to do a lot of things right now. Yes, we will cooperate with the EU on major and important interventions. We know that takes time to put that in place. But we must not sit still and wait. We look forward to Norway having nationally determined contributions on the table as soon as possible after the end of negotiations with the EU and in good time before the deadline for the submission of contributions in 2020. The Paris Agreement commits countries to limit the increase in global average temperature to 2 degrees above pre-industrial level and to limit temperature increases to 1.5 degrees. The Parties shall communicate a new emission contribution every five years. New contributions should always be more ambitious than the old ones — it is one of the great achievements of the agreement. The Christian People's Party agreed to link Norway's efforts towards the EU because it is likely to be most effective. However, this must not mean that we are waiting with Norwegian measures. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Green Party last year, was given an impact on the development of a climate law, in order to systematically commit us to following the climate goals. It will be an important tool in a climate-friendly domestic environment. We know that climate change has already hit many people hard, and it is hardest for them to hit the poorest. More drought and unforeseeable rainy seasons are already having dramatic consequences. We can't be the generation that did too little. It will give us a crushing historical judgment -- because we know it's dramatic not to act. It's an expectation of the people. It's an understanding of conversion. It gives us a unique opportunity to use measures that also in the short term challenge our way of life and our habits. Petroleum activities have been and are important for the Norwegian economy, and you do not turn off the cranes overnight. Petroleum activity is becoming a significant part of our economy for decades to come. The point is that that's now we have to find and apply the options. This concerns the new renewable energy sources that we know, but also to intensify research into and further develop them and to find new methods that we do not know today. Perhaps the age of petroleum has been a sleeping cushion for Norway. It must no longer be. The green shift is going on, and we have to make sure in all our community planning that everything is moving in the same direction. We've only started so far at work, but we've started, and it's backwards not to keep the control speed. I guess no one wants to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e249	It is very positive that the Paris Agreement is now ratified by an overall increase. It is positive that there is such a willingness among all the parties in the Storting to be involved in both the issue of ratification and follow-up and also what the further discussion will entail in terms of action, costs, obligations and opportunities. Now we've already begun to have a number of debates in Stortinget on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement – in a little different context, a little bit bit and a little bit, and still we have to wait before we get a more collective debate on the follow-up to the agreement, and I think the impatience in this room is gradually quite great after starting that job. It is positive that the Paris Agreement establishes common obligations for all, but at the same time is based on the principles of the Convention on Justice and Differentiating Responsibilities. This means that it is the rich countries that still have a special responsibility in climate work both in terms of emission reductions and also in terms of climate finance. For Norway, we will achieve a large part of the objective in a common framework with the EU, which means that we will meet our commitments in cooperation with them. It involves both disadvantages and advantages. This is the disadvantage of the fact that, as I mentioned, we find it difficult to get a proper start on the debate on our own follow-up, although when we see the debate we had on energy policy yesterday, we see that we are already making decisions that are linked to a concrete follow-up to the Paris agreement both in terms of energy production and use, in terms of the transport sector and in terms of the construction sector, to mention some. That is good, and that is important, but I still believe that impatience is great after moving forward in this debate. It is therefore also important that, in the context of ratification, the Committee today concentrates on several decisions concerning the follow-up by the government and what the government should return to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain with regard to matters of both reinforced objectives and follow-up. And then I realize there's a disagreement about IV. It's a little peculiary, then, or especially, that this arises as a problem after giving the setting, and I also think it's a little special that there are parties that both leave out of a unanimous post-release setting, and also choose to send letters to the Council of State with detailed explanations after delivery – a little special committee procedure. I have to say that I cannot understand that it is really going to be a problem that the Stortinget confirms and determines what should be the goal of climate neutrality, all the time we also give the government the powers it needs to get back to Stortinget in terms of guidelines for mechanisms that can be used, and also how to meet the objective of climate neutrality. We set a goal, but we also give the government the opportunity for follow-up that it seems to be sound from the framework set in the setting, so I might think that the problem here is a little overrated from some parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e262	The Paris Agreement is truly a historic one and a time gap in the international struggle to limit global warming. I will again – I have mentioned it before – commend the government for the work that was done in Paris, where the Norwegian government was central to the strengthening of the Paris agreement that we saw, by getting an agreement that was more ambitious than most expected. French leadership was also impressive in Paris. I believe that for everyone who was present when the agreement finally came into place, there was a unique experience that they are always going to have with them. It's an enhancement where we're not just going to reach a 2 degree goal. We're going well below 2 degrees, and we're going to aim 1.5 degrees. The decision we are making today will and will lay the leadership and the framework for most of the second thing we are doing on the Storting in the coming years. That's what it has to do. The first example of this was given yesterday, when we had decided on the energy message, where the Storting makes very ambitious decisions both in the construction sector and not least in the transport sector with objectives far ahead of any other country. However, it is important to remember that the commitments entered from the various countries towards the Paris Agreement are not close enough, either to reach the 2-degree target or to reach 1.5 degrees. We're going to have to do a lot more than the commitments we've now filed. It is also important to bring with you in the discussion about delays in action. It is also in the Paris Agreement that all countries should step up their efforts towards 2020, not just from 2020. They will strengthen towards 2020. We have previously stated that we want an agreement with the EU on the Norwegian commitments of 40 p.m. reduction. For the Left, it is important to communicate that we believe that it should be part of the EEA Agreement. We think that's the right way to do it. This will give us the fastest progress, and we will have a matter of runways and measures already in the 2017 budget. But then – and there I would like to thank the case rapporteur – it is important that we have a consensus on how the Roadmap for Stortinget's treatment of the follow-up to the Paris Agreement will take place in the years to come. In 2017, we ask for a summary of the calls contained in the Paris Agreement and the Paris Decision and an overview of how to respond to the calls. Then we ask that the government come to Stortinget before the dialogue on increased ambitions in 2018, with Norway's proposal for reinforced targets as the starting point for this process. Finally, the issue of Norway’s final national contribution for the period 2021–2030 will be brought to an end as soon as possible after the joint fulfilment negotiations with the EU have been concluded. That's where we're going to report our reinforced targets up to 2030 so that, together, we don't just have to reach the 2 degree goal internationally, but we're going to show how we're going to reach 1.5 degrees. We need high ambitions for reductions in Norway, we need high ambitions to contribute internationally, and we also need high ambitions to be an example to show how to develop a low-carbon society with both economic development and action that can be an example for others. Finally, some comments on the decision on climate neutrality. The government is asked to assume that Norway will provide for climate change reduction equivalent to Norwegian emissions as of 1 January 2030. When Stortinget adopted the climate agreement in 2012, we said that we would accelerate when Norway would become climate neutral from 2050 to 2030 if we had an ambitious and global agreement. We have received that, and then the climate agreement has to be followed up. We see in the answer to the Council of State that he uses two arguments to not adopt this now. One is that it will be too expensive — that the economic and administrative consequences of accelerating the target have not been assessed. The second is the consequence for Norwegian jobs. It is important that these arguments should have been addressed in 2012. Now, when we adopt the Paris agreement, it is obvious that we also follow up the climate agreement. I want to encourage the Storting to go in for IV as well in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e283	Of course, the Green Party is also pleased that an overall increase will now support the ratification and entry into force of the Paris Agreement. It was nice to be Norwegian in Paris last autumn, with a government and a climate and environment minister, Sundtoft, who did a good job getting this agreement in place. One of the most important things that we are debating today is that the Earth's carbon budget must be approximately. 400 gigatons if we're going to stay within the Paris Agreement's ambition for a maximum of 1.5 degree heating. Today, the world emits 40 gigatons this year, i.e. that we have ten years left with the emission rate that we have today. Although this is in a way numerical acrobatics, the Committee has unanimously accepted that the world must start cutting greenhouse gas emissions at a completely fabulously much higher rate than we have now. Norway has to do the same. That perspective is, of course, very close to Norwegian climate policy in the debate we had on energy and climate yesterday, and in the measures discussed today. We have a long way left, and we have told ourselves that it must happen very much in this country if we are to do our part of the job. Then the Paris Agreement confirms a very important principle, namely the principle of justice and a common but differentiated responsibility between different countries. It's very important for two reasons. One is that there is a difference between countries’ ability to implement climate action. Everyone has to take that into account. The second thing is that doing the job that we've done through the Paris Agreement is extremely much a question of establishing enough confidence that everyone will do more than what's just free and easy. It is likely to require unparalleled diplomatic and political efforts, at least from a long historical perspective. That is why it is vital that rich countries and countries with high emissions per capita do not act in a way that undermines the confidence that was restored in the Paris Agreement, but that we go very far across the board to be a country that supports and strengthens the confidence that is needed for other countries to do their part of the job. That is why I am pleased that the government in this case has raised the objective of ‘making financing flows compatible with climate-resilient low-emission development’, and refers to the Paris agreement’s decision that industrialised countries should spend USD 100 billion annually on climate finance. This must be done by Norway on a scale commensurate with our historical responsibilities and our financial capacity. It's one of the areas where we can really make a difference, precisely because our number of tons of emissions in itself is not a very large part of global emissions. That is why the Green Party is proposing today that Norway should set a so-called climate percentage, which is equivalent to 1 pst. of GNI, approx. 30 B.C.E. kr, funded by the State pension fund abroad and paid into the United Nations Green Climate Fund. It will be a concrete, but also a politically very important, contribution to building the confidence that Norway itself has in all possible interest to underpin the cooperation on the climate agreement. We also propose that Norway submit as an additional obligation to the climate agreement, the Paris agreement, that Norwegian oil and gas activities be phased over a 20-year period. To my co-representatives who repeat until they turn blue in the face that it is about phased out Norwegian oil activities overnight, I repeat the figure: a 20-year period. There is a long transition period in business, but there is a short transition period in the time perspective that climate change gives us, and that the Storting itself has underlined in this setting. I ask my co-representatives to think carefully about the implications of what they themselves have adopted. I'm dealing with the proposals we've been making.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e305	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e308	It is with pleasure that I stand before the Storting to witness the agreement to ratify the Paris Agreement. I am also very grateful for the prompt treatment of the Storting. Today and tomorrow, Oslo has visitors from 47 countries, 500 delegates, at the world's largest rainforest conference, the REDD Exchange. The rapid treatment of the population means that we are sending strong positive signals today to important co-operation countries, both countries with significant emissions, and countries with a significant share of the solution to the climate crisis, i.e. countries with large rainforest resources. I have been here earlier this year and explained the content of the agreement. The Government has promoted a proposal of consent that sets out the mechanisms and systems provided for by the Paris Agreement. We have been given an increased temperature measure, established as part of the purpose of an international treaty. We have received a global emission target on the balance between emissions and uptake in the first half of this century, a global carbon neutrality target. We have received a dynamic system of submissions of nationally determined contributions every five years, in line with the principles of progress and maximum ambition. The agreement also gives us the opportunity to see the big picture through global reviews. That means that we are given the opportunity to assess collective achievement. In addition, we have a strengthened reporting and measurement system. The agreement also places great emphasis on cooperation between countries and opens up markets for use. There is no doubt that the world as a whole needs to increase its efforts to achieve the ambitious objectives of the Paris Agreement. In order to achieve the 2-degree target, more countries need to assume clearly greater commitments. Norway, together with the EU, was among the first to report its 2030 target to the UN, and we were together with the EU among those with the clearly highest level of ambition, at least 40 pst. emissions reduction in 2030 compared to 1990. The biggest demand today is that the government assumes that Norway can achieve climate neutrality from 2030 through several mechanisms that the Committee itself points to. These mechanisms will not be available in part under the Paris Agreement, they will not be able to be used in part without double counting of emissions, but the government will follow up the Storting decision and come back to the Stortingen on this. The Paris agreement also means increasing demands over time for Norway, but we are not alone. When I signed the Paris Agreement on behalf of Norway in New York on 22 April, Norway stood with 174 other countries. Never before have so many countries gathered on the signing of an international agreement on the first day of signing. The agreement will enter into force when at least 55 parties hold at least 55 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions, has ratified the Paris Agreement. To date, 17 parties have ratified the agreement. These stand for a total of 0.04 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions. It is mostly small island states, but also Somalia and Palestine. With Norway’s ratification, the share of global greenhouse gas emissions will more than triple in those that have ratified, but we are far from making a difference. To reach 55 pst. large emitters must also ratify. The United States, China and Brazil are among the large emitters expected to accede to or ratify the agreement as early as this year. Other countries have also indicated that they will be part of the agreement this year. Overall, these countries account for more than 50 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions. What Norway can do, although our emissions are not high in the global context, is to go ahead and mobilise more for rapid ratification. Yesterday, the Prime Minister received a letter from the UN Secretary-General calling for rapid ratification. The size of the population gives a very rapid response today to Norway’s will to lead. Rapid ratification will be important in a world where the climate debate can at times be challenging. The election campaign in the United States shows that the unity of world society is not necessarily inevitable. It will be much more urgent for the country to withdraw from the agreement after it has entered into force. Rapid ratification will also lead to increased attention and concentration on the implementation of the agreement and its system. I think that should be a major priority in the future. Norway is in the future, both nationally and internationally, in preventing dangerous anthropogenic climate change. Now we have the opportunity to show this again by perhaps becoming the very first industrialised country to ratify the agreement. We will take advantage of the opportunity to be a driver in order to maximise the speed with which it is possible, and to ensure that more people implement the agreement as quickly as possible and increase their ambitions in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e339	The size has contributed, through the committee reading, to the fact that there is an almost overall committee and an almost total body that is behind the ratification of the Paris Agreement. There is one point that distinguishes, and whether to accelerate the carbon neutrality or climate neutrality target from 2050 to 2030, based on the Paris Agreement. The vast majority are very clear that the basis of the agreement is now, and that is also a recognition of what the agreement actually involves, that it is global, that it is ambitious and that it is sufficient to speed up the objective. In his letter to the Committee on 13 June, the Council of State writes that there are costs and consequences for society that make him the detainee. Then my question is: will it be less cost and less impact on society if one postpones this decision, or can we believe that if one accepts consent earlier, it will be more reasonable and less impact on society?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e346	Now it must be said, in the name of reasonableness, that I made several arguments. What we owe to make the Storting aware of is that the mechanisms that the committee points to are actually not fully present. We have to go more into it, it would deserve a more thorough assessment. But we're going to follow the decision of the Biggest. Then we have climate targets for 2030 – 40 pst. emissions reductions compared to 1990. This is what we are going to do together with the EU, and it is about our national commitment and national emission reduction. Climate neutrality from 2030 is probably no one who suggests that we should only achieve emissions reductions here at home. The difference between our 2030 targets and climate neutrality in 2030 is about international mechanisms, quota purchases and other, and it is in that landscape, which is not fully designed internationally, that we need to do a thorough job in the future. The government will come back to Stortinget in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e355	I agree with the Council of State that there are uncertainties. There are things that are not clear, these are things that have to be worked on, and it's perfectly obvious that they will have consequences. But I asked concretely, and it would be good to get an answer: would it be more reasonable and more appropriate for society to acknowledge the climate reconciliation – shall we say – confirmation of the acceleration of carbon neutrality from 2050 to 2030 now than to wait for it? It would be good for Stortingen to get information about it. We consider it there that there will be more costs and more complications if one postpones a decision. We think it's beneficial to do it early, and we've been impatient to get that confirmation earlier. I'm very glad that such a broad majority in the Greatness now ends up about it, and I'm amazed that Right, which is one of the conciliators, might not recognize itself right now. Will costs be increased, or will they be reduced, if one waits for a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e362	There are now several people who have stressed that although the level of ambition in the Paris Agreement is high, the commitments assumed from countries are far from sufficient to reach the level of ambition. That is why we believe that we should have waited for the international process between 2018 and 2020, where countries should actually report their final targets, by making that assessment by the Norwegian side, if we could thus contribute to increased international ambitions. With regard to costs, there are many uncertainties. One argument that costs will be lower is that the past use of these international mechanisms is that the quota price is likely to rise over time, but here it is a landscape that we have had a short time to assess, and there is therefore no clear answer to that. But we come naturally enough now, based on the decision of the Storting, to make a more thorough assessment of several factors, including costs, but as I said also whether the mechanisms will be available at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e371	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for signing the agreement on the first day that it was possible, and then file a case for the Stortinget, which allows us to be early on ratifying the agreement. As I said in my post, the Left believes it is right that we now also decide to accelerate the objective of climate neutrality to 2030. But my question is really about the process we now have with the EU, of reaching an agreement to reduce our emissions by 40 pst. By 2030, and the form of this agreement, we are now adding up to a bilateral agreement. I would like to ask the Council of State: wouldn't it be easier, and wouldn't you get a faster solution if this agreement were just added to the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e378	It is true, as Elvesuen says, that the government has agreed and the Stortinget has agreed that we should seek a bilateral agreement with the EU. Now it is that the form of the agreement will not be decisive for the content and not necessarily for the pace of the process either. What is crucial to the content of the agreement is the policy development in the EU and its consequences for Norway, rather complex processes that we are now working intensively on in advance of the Commission’s presentation of the effort-sharing decision. Then there is something that speaks for the time being to be more appropriate with an EEA agreement solution, which is that it is possible that a bilateral agreement would have to be ratified by all EU countries. It takes an experience time. However, it is very important to be clear that if a solution is found within the EEA Agreement, it does not mean that any more of the agreement becomes EEA-relevant. It will follow the usual procedures, including the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e383	I am pleased that we have a unanimous growth that believes that forest needs to come in addition to increase the level of ambition, and I am also pleased that the bulk of the population determines that this can best be managed by setting their own targets for climate action in the forestry and land use sectors. The reason why I think this is very important for the level of ambition at European level. A report from the German Eco-Institut shows that the EU target of 40 p.m. cut in practice will be reduced to 34-37 pst. cut if flexibility is provided between forest and other sectors. The Council of State is aware that this is now a major debate in Brussels, and that the Stortinget asks the government to take the same line as Germany and France have indicated. I wonder how the government will follow this up with the EU in the further processes, first towards the Commission's proposal for an effort-sharing decision and then in the further treatment in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e390	The Norwegian position on this issue is based on the fact that including forests and other land use in the climate framework should not affect the overall level of ambition. It is quite clear, as the representative Holmås says, that some countries point out that they have a lot of forest, and that they have thus almost met the 2030 targets already. It's not an acceptable approximation. It's not an approximation we share. We are concerned that the overall level of ambition should not be affected by existing forests and other land use. However, what is important, and which could have a significant impact on climate, is to ensure incentives for new measures in the rural sector, land use and forestry. There is our line in the European context – and our line in the global context – that forests as a resource are already of great importance and can become more important by having an active policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e396	Thanks for the answer. I agree with the last part of what the Council of State said, but he really did not answer my question. I want to ask you something else anyway. One of the things that is being carried out by the Council of State and by the parties to the Government, and at the latest in letters from the Council of State that I received in her just before the meeting today, is that it is too early today to determine whether other industrialized countries will also take on large commitments in the new agreement. I think that is actually wrong. We know that the US's obligations in the new agreement are coming nationally, completely independent of the new agreement. It's Obama's own goal – the Clean Air Act. The second is the objectives of the European Union. However, the EU's objectives towards 2030 are determined independently of the Paris Agreement and now lie there, so we already know that five of the eight largest industrialised countries in the world have tough commitments. How, then, can he claim this as an argument?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e405	We know that the commitments made by countries under the Paris Agreement are far from sufficient to reach the level of ambition in the Paris Agreement. That is what the contract decision itself says. It is true that the EU and Norway were early off reporting their targets. It was precisely because the EU and Norway wanted to show international leadership and to get more countries to follow our high ambitions. We did not succeed, but now it is the time for the final targets to be notified between 2018 and 2020. Then it is our ambition to contribute to more reporting high targets, and even if we see today that some developed countries have declared ambitious targets, they are not ambitious enough together, and there are not enough countries that have reported sufficiently ambitious targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e410	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e415	Norway is about to start ratifying, and I want to acknowledge the government that Norway has been on the verge of putting Norway in the front line here. The question then is: will the Norwegian society – all of us who are involved in producing emissions in different ways, whether from households, businesses, agriculture, construction, transport – feel that we now have a marshalling earth, that something has actually happened that triggers action? I have doubts about that, and I believe that the government has actually given itself a number of opportunities to gather an opinion among people – in business, in agriculture, in the transport sector – that there is now a real goal set. It's short by 2030. It's shorter to 2030 than it is since the year 2000, and I think most people think that the year 2000 isn't that long ago. From our side, we're concerned that we're now also getting attention to the possibilities that this shift gives. There are opportunities, not least in Norway. They are available throughout the oceans, which are important for the production of renewable energy. Many European countries look to the North Sea in the pursuit of new renewable energy, and Norway has a major competitive advantage here. Sea wind is such an example, where Statoil's investment shows quite considerable progress from year to year and shows that here we have something we can offer to the world community in terms of the transition to low-carbon societies. The Workers' Party is calling for a maritime wind strategy from the government. Secondly, the sea related to shipping: Norway has a long tradition as a shipping nation, and as the world’s sixth largest shipping nation, we have a unique opportunity to develop maritime food clusters to become world leaders in low- and zero-emission technologies. Norway can go ahead. We can facilitate the use of liquefied natural gas as a fuel, we can go ahead and establish shore-side electricity in larger ports, and we can replace the ferry by political contributions and decisions, and show way. The Labour Party is of the opinion, as has been stated in this debate, that Norway should show that this agreement is ambitious, as we have all said. The world needs countries that go into dense and develop climate-smart solutions in transport, agriculture, sea winds, shipping and many other areas, and Norway should – in line with the climate agreement, with the ambitious Paris agreement – aim to be climate-neutral by 2030. We need an active change of pace to develop new sustainable solutions in many areas where Norway has taken advantage and where we have a responsibility to take leadership to follow up this agreement. But opportunities – such as in shipping, sea winds and industry – need to be seized, otherwise there will be lost opportunities. This is a change we do not just get through whips, it must also be carrots, and an optimism that our competent working life can contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e430	Let me first just say thank you to Øyvind Korsberg, who made me aware that I should have said that the setting that we are dealing with here today had one change, namely that the government parties were outside one of the comments and one of the proposals that is here. Then it's supposed to be said that in my post I was dealing with the government parties actually being outside, but it's good to point it out from the pulpit as well. Our contribution to the world's CO2 emissions is about the tenth of the emissions that we actually report and that actually come from fossil use through our exports of oil products. One of the things I've also asked questions about, and where it gets exciting to look at the government's work forward, is that if the climate agreement works as intended, it will have consequences for the Norwegian oil industry. There will be consequences because it will be the gas that has space within a fair way of extracting the remaining resources, and within a climate target where we say we should strive to achieve the objective of avoiding a temperature increase of more than 1.5 degrees. These are the goals we set, and they will have consequences. I know it's not the Minister for Climate Change's request, but I would like to encourage the government as a whole to go in and look at how we, as a nation, should adapt to the changes that are coming – the need for economic change, etc. – as a result of a hopefully well-functioning climate agreement. I pointed out, and I believe that the government does not have good arguments to argue that other developed countries will not take on great commitments in the new agreement, all the time both the United States and the EU countries, which, after all, constitute a good 'bunch', to say the least, by the industrialized countries, have now taken on commitments. And I think we should use the opportunity to drive the ambitions forward, instead of holding the cards closer to the chest and using the same negotiation card again. I think it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that Norway has already notified the UN, in the context of the climate negotiations that have been, that we are willing to take on the objective of climate neutrality in 2030 if we have a global agreement. And if we were to come back one more time, in 2018, and use the exact same card again, it's not a way of promoting trust in the international negotiations. Instead, we now have the opportunity to chisel out what an ambitious interpretation of climate neutrality should be, and that opportunity I hope the government will use to present this to us at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e446	It's an important day when we're ratifying this agreement, primarily because it's an agreement it's not only worth joining, but worth celebrating. It can be an important step for the world, but only if the Paris Agreement is linked to the concrete political steps in each country that are needed to move us closer to the very radical, ambitious goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. I want to commend the government for making rapid ratification, but the contrast between it and the still very slow progress in dealing with the climate problem is only becoming clearer in a day like this. The most important thing to stress today is that despite the fact that the Storting is now joining the new agreement, we lack a wide debate in Norway on what the 1.5-degree objective would be for us. The fact that the Storting is now in favour of fulfilling the promise that Norway has made in the past about accelerating climate neutrality if we get a more offensive international regulatory framework in place is a recognition of the progress that has been made and of the reach of the ambitious goals that the world has now set itself. But the Storting must do more if we are really to recognise the consequences it will have for Norway. It has become very clear in the debate on the 23rd concession round. There were many glaring glances both from the majority in this room and from the oil and gas industries when the question of what the new climate objective and the Paris agreement would have to say for our industries came to the fore. No one could answer that. It's right that we have to bet on sea wind, it's right that we have to have a big investment in zero-emission technology, and it's not least important that we get started quickly with the green shift within the maritime industries. But all this must be combined with an honest and open debate and another political courage in terms of the willingness to make Norway less dependent on oil and gas. There is no doubt that the new climate target will also have consequences for our oil and gas sector. There will be consequences for what kind of projects will pay off in the future, where it is possible to extract oil and gas. That is why it is a problem that the Stortinget ratifys this agreement while the political majority continues to look at the most serious challenge the agreement gives us, namely how long we can continue to rely heavily on oil and gas. And it's my call to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment that he uses his influence to get a review of that topic. This is absolutely necessary in the follow-up to the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e457	The debate has been relatively calm, and that is really good. It has also underlined the importance of what a ratification has to say in the broad perspective. But it is also the case that a consequence of the Paris Agreement and the consensus that is there, which we regard as a turning point in the international climate change process, is also linked to some uncertainty. There are new steps that need to be taken; there are new decisions that need to be made. As the representative Lysbakken said, new steps must be taken from the countries that have committed themselves. In a number of areas, it is important to take these steps and, as it is also quite natural, to take them on the issue of carbon neutrality. And I think it's quite natural for those who were part of the climate agreement in 2008 and 2012, to recognise the Paris Agreement and the Paris Agreement and the turning point that lies there, by recognising also the commitments and the climate agreement to accelerate carbon neutrality from 2050 to 2030, when it's an international ambitious agreement that's on the table. When we don't, I think we support the Paris Agreement and its importance, and I also think that we sort of put a strain on what was the clear premise of the climate agreement in 2008 and 2012, when the broad majority in the Grand Duchy adopted it. Therefore, I think it is a pity that the Right, especially, as one of the conciliators chooses not to be part of the decision that we are making today. And I think it's perfectly obvious, it shines through, that it's the costs that are the reason why we shouldn't be involved. But it will require action, it will require money, it will require a meeting of uncertainty and try to resolve it in the continuation. No one says that there is freedom of movement, but some work is required of those who are to implement this Decision. I am pleased that the Council of State says that he will loyally follow up the decision, but I had actually expected that not least the Right Party, as a responsible party and as part of the climate agreement, had used the opportunity now to pay tribute to the Paris Agreement and the job that has been done, by also accelerating the goal from 2050 to 2030. I think it's a shame that they choose not to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e466	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e480	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e487	Initially, I would like to thank the committee for giving us the finish line in this matter, which did not seem to be a matter of course towards the final question. The more happy it is that we have landed on what I experience is a good solution to the representative proposal from SV. It is appropriate to take history into account: In 2009, the then Minister of Knowledge, Kristin Halvorsen, made a clarification of the legislation that led to the previous practice of many schools with a 15 pst. the absence limit was stopped. The ex-secondary issue of absenteeism has aroused debate and commitment when it has been on the agenda, and not least the drop-off from high school has been discussed. Let me therefore first say that it is voluntary to apply for secondary education, but it should not be voluntary to attend without a good reason. This has been the backbone of today's regulation, which the Department of Knowledge commissioned the Education Directorate to investigate. Different models were assessed and five alternatives were sent at the hearing on 25 February 2015. Of the 357 hearing replies, 70 gave pst. support for the introduction of an absenteeism limit, and among those giving the most uplift were teachers and schools that had sent direct answers to the hearing. Nearly nine out of ten teachers and seven out of ten schools that gave their opinion, supported by this principle. Therefore, this regulation was also laid down already on 18 July 2015. The flexibility of a national threshold of absence does not necessarily depend on where a percentage limit goes, but on the arrangements for different measures and derogations. Existing regulation of 10 pst. For example, absences have a number of exceptions where absences are not counted if they are due to health and welfare reasons, work as trustees, political work, relief work, statutory attendance or representation in event at national and international level, such as: sport and culture. Health and welfare reasons include both hours in child and youth psychiatry, care tasks for your own children, illness that makes it difficult or not appropriate to visit a doctor, psychologist, health care sister, physiotherapist, etc. on a case-by-case basis. Here the principal can determine whether there is sufficient self-notification in combination with other documentation, which may be a statement by an expert demonstrating that the student has been enrolled in a team or is under investigation or follow-up for an undiagnosed disease. Students who are members of religious communities other than the Norwegian Church may be exempted from a religious celebration for up to two days. Absence due to conditions beyond the control of the student, e.g. stoppages or delays in public transport may be decided by the principal not to count as absences. In addition, the agreement on self-employment comes with study work or other, similar, agreements with teachers. In other words, it has already been put up for good flexibility in individual schools, and it would be natural to bring this into the further work on a new threshold of absence. It is also important to remember that the trade and hour distribution is in clock hours, and that school hours of 45 minutes will result in a conversion. The subject of fewer years in high school is thus 74 hours of school, which means that a student has to be away for eight single hours of 10 hours. or 12 single hours of 15 pst. to cross an absence limit. It corresponds to four and six weeks of absence respectively to cross the limit of undocumented absence. And then there's what can be documented. It is also good to bring with it as reflections during the debate. The evening post could prove that some classrooms in Oslo stood half full early in the morning. It's not okay. It's about respect for fellow students who deserve a good class environment. It's about respect for the teachers, who meet prepared for the teaching in the hope of giving the most and the best possible supplement to the individual student with a well-adapted teaching system, and where half-full classrooms make it difficult to conduct good teaching. Stories of students who expect new tests to prove their professional level, or who need repetition to join the professional progress, lead to additional resource use for the school and for the teachers, resources that could well help improve education. Absence without a good reason is therefore not possible. I am therefore very pleased that the majority of the Committee is now making a clear communication to the Minister of Knowledge and that the principle of a national absenteeism is being supported. This is entirely in line with the wishes of the teachers themselves, through, among other things. The Education Association and Norsk Lektorlag, from the school leaders through the School Managers' Association, from parents through the Parental Committee in Primary Education and from Business through, among others. NHO and Specter, to name someone. Now, when dialogue starts, we will get a new limit of absence that is welcomed by all of them. I look forward to the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e506	This matter is about the Stortinget being asked to say yes or no to the government's proposal for an absence limit of 10 p.m., not that the Stortinget should make a new regulation. The working party is for us to have clear rules against invalid absences, and for us to have expectations that the students will be at school. The Labour Party has had the same attitude to absenteeism and scabble both before, during and after this case, namely that invalid absences are unacceptable. An absence limit, together with other measures, can be the right tool to reduce absenteeism. The assumption is that it is designed correctly, provides room for discretion and takes on all the absences, not just what is above a certain limit. The government's proposals reaped a lot of criticism. The attitude of the Labour Party is that a limit of 10 pst. with one penalty is too rigid and does not take enough account of struggling students. In addition, there is a risk that it may be considered as an allowance for acceptable absences. We have received many examples showing that students with unclear diagnosis and mental problems may lose their diploma because they cannot document good reasons for being away from teaching. There is some background to the fact that the majority in Stortinget, all parties with the exception of the government parties, say no to the government's 10 pst. limit of absence in secondary education. Instead, the Minister of Knowledge is given a clear mandate to talk to the sector and propose a new regulatory framework. At the same time, the majority provides a clear framework for further work. I encourage both the government parties and the minister of knowledge to read these comments carefully. The majority say that a legislation on absenteeism must, first of all, stimulate increased implementation, it must provide room for completion for struggling students, it must not contribute to unnecessary bureaucracy, and it must provide room for flexibility and discretion for schools. In addition, the majority say that there should be reactions to all invalid absenteeism. It doesn't keep inserting a single penalty until you have reached an absolute and static percentage limit. If the students have some absence in the autumn, they should be followed up immediately, and the schools should address this and provide reactions long before the student approaches 10 pst., 15 pst. or another percentage limit. These leaders must be followed by the Minister of Knowledge. Then another majority, from the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, have said that one is positive to an attempt at a national border for absence based on these leaders from the Stortinget. The entire Committee is fully committed to accompanying research related to new legislation to be carefully evaluated three years after its introduction. The working party believes that this is a much better solution than the government put forward. The Minister of Knowledge is given four clear messages here: firstly, that a rigid 10 pst. border is dead and buried; secondly, that he must engage in dialogue with the sector and review legislation based on the leadership of the Stortinge has given; thirdly, that the Council of State has the opportunity – but absolutely not required – to introduce a national threshold of absence to be evaluated after three years; and fourthly, that a regulation or a limit is not enough; there must also be other measures against absenteeism and non-response. We expect the Minister of Knowledge now to have a proper dialogue with the school actors: with the students through the Student Organisation, with the teachers, the Association of Education, the National Schools, school owners, KS and other relevant parties – not because these organisations should have veto rights, but because they feel that they have been heard that their views have been respected, and that everyone has said what kind of absence regulations you should have in high school. Finally, in this case there have been several discussions between the various majority members of the Committee and a solution has been found in the Committee. It has not made the work easier that we have had a government council that has gone around and thought strongly what the committee should do. It doesn't make it easier to reach a compromise when he chooses to hang out one or more of the parties you actually need to get a majority. The Labour Party has thought and said the same thing all the way, namely that the Workers' Party is against all invalid absences. We're open to an absence limit, but against the government model. We said that when we had a group meeting and rejected the 10-pst limit, we said that the next day, we said that when the committee presented the setting, and we say that today. The fact that the Minister of Knowledge accuses the Labour Party of turning 180 degrees and saying no even if you are too, to ride two horses at the same time and sabotage work with borders does not contribute to a solution. We noticed that this contrasts with what Right Henrik Asheim said to the NRK on the day the committee presented the setting. This is not about the Workers' Party having turned around, but about the fact that we have now found ourselves together. With that, I hope that the Right now agrees with itself and stops winging – whether they accuse others of winging or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e529	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a well-worked job. It has certainly not been an easy matter to be the case rapporteur for. This has been a rather messy case, which has created uncertainty if a national absenteeism threshold was to be adopted at all – including clear legislation providing for the necessary exemptions for valid absences. That is why I am very pleased today that the Right Party and the Progress Party, at last little, reached agreement with the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The party of progress believes that the school must be clear that absence for no valid reason is not good. Clearly, there are also many more who believe. The introduction of the national border of absence is strongly supported by parents, teachers, principals and the general population. The Party considers that if an absence limit of e.g.: 15 pst. is introduced on a country-by-country basis for a trial period of three years — and accompanied by follow-up research — there is a model that responds to the recordings of both pupils and teachers. Such a model will ensure that we have a broader knowledge of how the absenteeism affects the students’ presence at school. In the course of this extension, the Party of Advances considers that, in exceptional cases, the principal should be able to decide that individual livers may take their stand in a trade even if the absence limit is exceeded. The Party will stress that the new legislation applies to undocumented absences and that there are several possible exceptions to demonstrate that absences are not included. I refer you to the rapporteur's thorough examination of the matter that shows this. In this case, the Advance Party has received further enquiries, inter alia. from relatives who were uncertain as to whether their children waiting for expert investigations or chronically ill students would be able to take examinations due to excessive absences that were difficult to document. Government parties are therefore in favour of clarifying the legislation in order to protect vulnerable student groups. The right hand part and the progress part are clear in their own note that the principal is able to decide exemption from the frontier by having the student’s own message in combination with other documentation. We have great confidence that the Council of State and the government will follow this up. The Progress Party will point out that we already know some of the effects of absenteeism. According to Oslo figures, a whole month of the school year disappears in absenteeism. The absenteeism rate is more than 10 pst. and has continued to increase since SV removed the 2009 absenteeism threshold. While the party will have absenteeism limits, the government will at the same time step up efforts to combat absenteeism and provide for stronger follow-up of secondary school students — including an obligation for schools to follow-up students. The main school can do for struggling students is to ensure the ability of teachers and health professionals to follow up and a good educational environment that contributes to school motivation. This is where the government is already investing in the school health service, but a clear and pronounced absence limit will also help in this. It is quite possible that some students can get well through school by coming too late for school and having a lot of absence. But we should remember that the school is not just going to train the students, it should also be forming and preparing them for adult life. This includes, inter alia: to learn that elections have consequences. In today's system, students learn that meeting duty is not so important. This has consequences for them both at school and not least later when they are going out to work. How would Norwegian productivity and value creation go if Norwegian workers were away from work for a whole month? The progress party will remind you that high school students in Norway are very lucky. They get free education, and the teaching is done by good teachers. We in the Progress Party believe that the student has an independent duty to do the best out of this, for reasons of self, the class environment, the teacher and the parents and the rest of society. The presence of students in hours is a prerequisite for productivity and learning. Adult people in the labour market live with demands for attendance at work. We certainly believe that Norwegian school students also live well, and we are pleased that there is now a regulatory framework in place in this area. The tank behind an absence limit is not primarily that there should be a rice behind the rear-view mirror. The most important thing about absenteeism is that it is easier to catch students, identify any problems they may have, and take action. High absences and, in the worst case, drop-outs from school are a problem and lead in the utmost consequence to exclusion later in life. This must be combated – for the benefit of both society and individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e557	I would first like to thank the rapporteur and the rest of the Committee for an interesting process in dealing with this matter. This is a matter that has received a lot of attention, and has created a lot of debate far beyond the Storting. For those who have followed this matter through the media, it may have been a bit difficult to understand what really happened. One day, the Workers' Party and the Right-Waying Disagreement and the Tweeds of each other, and only a few days later, they are in complete agreement, without any of the parties having turned the case around. What has happened is that the Storting is now saying no to the government's absence limit and that we are making clear the direction of a new absence regulation, while at the same time ensuring that the Workers' Party and the Centre secure the majority of the government parties that we should have a national absence limit as a pilot project. We really agree on quite a lot across all the party boundaries in this case. We agree that we need to reduce our absence. We share the concern that absence is too high. We agree that we should make demands on the students. When we give students the right to education, we also have to be able to expect that they will be present and present when the education takes place. The problem with the government’s rules of absence was that it was too rigid. It was designed in such a way that it could have negative consequences and that it could quickly work against its purpose. Since a student had reached the limit of 10 pst. undocumented absence, the student would be informed that the course has now been completed. Although the border was reached early in the autumn, the whole year would be lost. Then I think it would be a heavy job to motivate this student to meet at school and continue to participate in the education. Then I'm afraid that the path to the non-response statistics would be very short. That is why the government's rules were for rigid. It could have serious consequences, and it could work against its purpose. I would therefore like to thank SV who has taken this matter to Stortinget. It is not often Stortinget intervenes and stops a regulation from the government, but in this case it was necessary. The government is now asking the government to engage in dialogue with the sector in order to develop a new school absenteeism regulation. There must be a regulation that is more flexible, more flexible and takes into account that there may be many different reasons why a student has a high level of absence during periods. It is not always very easy to document those reasons. We need to have a regulation that will enable students to complete and help students to come back. When a student is away from school for some reason, there may be support and help more than punishment needed. I think having a certain ability to exercise judgement will also be important. In the past, the Minister of Knowledge has been very critical of the use of judgement and has argued that there is a need for a square code to ensure that it is practiced equally throughout the country. But in the case of young people who have some problem, some challenge in their everyday lives, which is why you might not find it possible to meet at school, I think having a room of discretion is not so stupid anyway. I would like to repeat that the Christian People's Party wants clear rules of absence at school, but I would also like to stress that the most important thing we can do to reduce absenteeism is to work with the underlying reasons for absenteeism. Then we have to work on prevention. That's why I'm glad that the Christian People's Party in the budget negotiations last autumn got through to strengthen the school health service and earmark funds for that purpose, and I'm glad that last week we had an impact on an obsessive escalation plan for mental health work among children and young people. We have to work constantly to create safe and good learning environments, to fight bullying and to make school a place where it is safe, interesting and motivating for the students to be. To say as the School Professionals, who were present at the hearing, from the Change Factory said: We have to make the school a place where it is safe to be, not a place where it is scary to be away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e585	The absence limit has been a hot topic this spring. SV has successfully taken the matter to Stortinget, and a unanimous increase is now notifying the Minister of Knowledge that the arrangement of the regulation adopted by the Right-Fremskritsparte government is not in line with the Stortinge's will. The Minister of Knowledge has decided to impose a limit of 10 pst. absence in individual subjects, despite strong protests — the seas of those organisations and bodies which have expressed a positive opinion on the introduction of an absence limit. The government has therefore bombed in this case, sailing over the government parties in the course of handling the case and in retrospect trying to produce an instruction from the Stortinget as one says. The centre party was in government when the clarification around the absence limit was made in 2009. The reason for not introducing a national border at that time was, among other things: not to approve a so-called free pot with days of absence for the students, i.e. that a concession limit would allow students free time to take part in the teaching period. This is also still a threat to the rules the government is now required to design. That's why it's very important to keep up with this, and I'm asking the Minister of Knowledge specifically about it. Unfortunately, experience since 2009 has shown that there has been an increase in absenteeism. The centre party thinks it's worrying and something we educational authorities can't ignore. If we put a place in high school, we expect the student to use the school place actively. The centre party would have preferred that we didn't need a national legislation on absence, but we have nevertheless chosen to go in to try it out for three years and evaluate it. We note that an overall committee, from the SV to the Progress Party, is of the same opinion. The size does not now produce the regulation, as mentioned earlier, but we give strong leadership to the design of the Council of State. Back to the decision on 10 pst. absence: the centre party believes, like a number of teachers, students and others, that this was one for a square boundary. We have received many enquiries from dubious parents and students who fear that they will not be able to carry out the training if the regulations were practiced so rigorously. It is a saying that one should not throw the child out with the bath water. In this case, it is exactly what the government has been doing. It seems that the Minister of Knowledge has been so blinded in his attempt to stop unregulated absences or, in good Norwegian, that he has not calculated the consequences of such an absence regime for other students, students with greater challenges than getting out of bed in time for the first hour of Monday. For there are many students who want to face challenges, seagoing with the reservations that are defined as legal absences. For some students it is a big challenge to get through the school week and in periods at all to see something positive in school day. When the small goal is at least to participate in tests, it's not just demotivating, but totally devastating to be told that a 10 pst absence. in a subject will automatically result in a non-evaluation of the subject, regardless of whether the professional performance is 6 on all examinations. Attendance will never define the cognitive knowledge of students, but will say something about activity and participation. For these students, an absence limit is not a rice behind the mirror that will motivate the audience, but a confirmation of a defeat that can end with an empty school desk, which can be replaced in the next round by a place in the Nav queue. So what's the gain? We are therefore pleased that the government parties sailed, when the matter came to Stortinget, realized that 10 pst. and no judgement for the principal is too rigid and will work against his purpose. It is important that we politicians realize that the world is not black and white, and that there are no rules that can take account of all conditions. It has therefore been so important for the Committee to point out, inter alia, that: that the principal must be given the discretionary powers. The centre party believes that the model that the Education Association has outlined can be a way to go, and I record that the government parties have suggested the same thing. However, it is important that the Ministry engages in dialogue with the sector, KS and health services, as requested by the Committee. The centre party will strongly warn that the absence regime may result in increased bureaucracy. Therefore, it is also very important that there be simple and efficient systems that do not consume either the time of teachers or health care to write unnecessary documentation for absenteeism. It is more important that this time is spent on what it should: ‘generation perfect’ its challenges of realizing that they are good enough and good enough, but that we expect some of them, and that the school is there for them, and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e613	Let me also first start by thanking the rapporteur for the demanding work that has been done on this matter. The introduction of a national border on absenteeism has been a major concern. After the Minister of Knowledge introduced an absence limit of 10 p.m., students across the country took to the streets in protest. Several hearing bodies have criticised the government and the Minister of Knowledge of the rigid boundary to which it was assigned. Few doubt that an absence limit of 10 pst. will be able to discipline part of those who have invalid absences. The problem, however, is that so many more will be affected. The reasons young people are away from school are many and varied. Some of them don't want to meet the teaching, some feel that they don't meet enough challenges in school everyday life, while others are struggling with complex mental challenges. It is not always so easy for young people to document temporary depression, and there should be other ways of dealing with non-documented absenteeism due to mental challenges than to threaten to take away the student’s diploma. Although absenteeism in high school is higher than desired, it is a far greater problem than absenteeism. At a time when the dropout is high and many students are struggling with mental challenges and pressures, it is not certain that it is right to impose even more demands, even more limits and even more ways of measuring. A rigid absence limit may also be harmed in order to morbidize students. Not everyone who is away from school one day must need a diagnosis. Sometimes youth, like everyone else, has a bad day. So it's probably the same way, as everyone knows, that being young can be tricky and difficult in periods, but that doesn't necessarily mean you have a disease. Today we have a government that is concerned with individual responsibility and peculiarity. Nevertheless, the planned absenteeism limit places all students in the same booth. It also offers no opportunity for students to reverse the trend – first of all, if you have an absence that is 10 pst., there is nothing you can do to get a stand in the given subject. This can in no way motivate students, such as young people. have a lot of absences associated with intoxication at the beginning of the year, but who meet in the school in the future and work hard. We're already too poor to even out differences in Norwegian school. The absence limit is to hatch out the weakest students, and the school cannot be a sorting system where we open out the weakest and leave the strongest behind. The left also believes that the most important measures are those that come before any limit of absence has been reached. It's much more important to talk about what we can do to prevent students from having an absence on, for example. 10 pst., than what happens when that limit is crossed. We need a school that nourishes the curiosity and creativity of students and young people, not one that chokes curiosity and creativity. In addition, it is important that we have good safety nets in place for those who are struggling. More health sisters and school psychologists have long been important to the Left, and it is even more important for those who need follow-up, or just need someone to talk to. The left is currently part of the minority proposing to lift the 10 pst absenteeism limit. in secondary education. Finally, I would like to add that this has been a debate that has been largely influenced by a political game. The actors out there have to see this as very unfair, and it contributes more to political disdain than it contributes to an informed debate. But I'm glad that the majority now, after we've gone through this process, points to a limit of 15 pst. which is a little bit more flexible than the government initially provided. And then I'm glad that the majority is clear that it has to be researched and evaluated, because in this debate we have very little concrete to deal with. There's a lot of vision both from those who are for a limit, and from us who don't want such a rigid limit. It's going to be interesting to see what it is that actually makes the students go to school. Is that the limit in itself, or is it the measures we take to keep students in school? I think it's more about the measures we're taking to keep the students there than the limit in itself. But I hope that is one of the things we can find out when it comes to researching and evaluating this, so that the next time we have this debate, it is taken on the basis of knowledge and research results and a solid evaluation – not just on sightings and political games from multiple sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e632	For us who have been sceptical about the government's policy in this field, there is reason to be satisfied with the outcome of this matter. We've averted a rigid drop-off trap, and hopefully we'll get a more flexible and rational absence code instead. The aim of reducing undocumented absences from education is something that all batches share. No student gets the instruction they need without being present in the classroom. The question is whether a static and rigid limit is a good tool to ensure that as many students as possible are well educated. The main challenge in secondary education is non-response — the fact that so many Norwegian young people are unable to complete a course of education. Disqualification gives the individual an incredibly poor starting point in working life. The high drop-out is a social problem, and our fear of the rigid proposal of the Council of State has been that there would be another drop-off trap. Often, there are very complex reasons for high absenteeism. It can be about motivation, about dissatisfaction, it can be about mental problems, it can be about a difficult family situation – all of this was highlighted in the strong contributions to the consultation, for example. from the Change Factory, the Blue Cross and the Children’s Organization. The path to increased implementation for those students who have a tough day in school is not a rigid limit of absence, but a comprehensive policy of presence, motivation, lifelong learning and organized school education. Students who wear shall not be given up; they shall be followed up. In addition to a strong commitment from the students themselves, it was on the basis of very many enquiries from teachers, principals and school researchers that SV promoted this proposal in the Stortinget. They were very concerned about how a new absence limit would be for those who have that tough party in school. I am very pleased that the Storting is now stopping the rigid proposal to the Council of State. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge to draw up a regulation on absenteeism that triggered conflict in another area of school. And the hearing confirmed with all clarity the need to look at this matter again. For example, the Education Association wrote: in its opinion on the lack of flexibility and rigour in the absence of the government's decision. There was slaughter from the municipalities, and those working with the most vulnerable young people warned us very strongly. That is why we have formulated our proposal in two paragraphs. One part is about stopping the government's rigid proposals, and the other about engaging in dialogue with the sector about better regulation. I also recognize that there are dilemmas here. There are some students for whom the Council's proposal would have worked well. Some students need a clear signal from society that we expect them to respond. Someone might want to meet up more through such a rigid limit as was proposed. But we have to weigh it up against the incredibly important consideration we have to create a more inclusive school for those who have the most difficulty, and to stop apostasy. It weighs most for us. There is no doubt, I believe, that the government risked increasing the drop-out rate in high school with its proposal. Now I believe that the Minister of Knowledge needs to spend time designing a new code and come back with something that makes the Storting not intervene again. It is at least I am prepared to do if we once again get a proposal without the necessary valves that allow you to use reason and discretion to take care of the students who labor the most. I registered that the case rapporteur from the right said he was very satisfied with this which is now happening in Stortinget. It must be called a fairly clear expression of the ‘spin’ that politicians are often accused of. Here the Right and the Governments have gone down on a thunderous defeat, and the Right must take responsibility for themselves, because they have done a bad political craft and have not taken into account the most vulnerable students in school. If we break through the ‘spin’ from both the Right and the Labour Party in this matter, we are left with the following: It was necessary to stop this proposal. I would like to thank the parties that have contributed to it, not least the Christian People's Party and the Left, who had the courage to cross the block edge. What is happening today is that the Stortinget takes responsibility and takes a completely necessary decision for Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e658	Students in secondary education have a statutory obligation to meet and actively participate in the training. Nevertheless, the absence in secondary education is on average 7-8 pst, and it is too high. It is voluntary to start in higher education, but once you have accepted a school place, you have an obligation to attend school. I want to say that the audience has a value in itself. It's about respect for the school, it's about respect for the teacher, and it's about respect for fellow students. And then it's about preparing for adult life. In addition, the attendance of students is very central to achieving professional goals, to create a good learning environment, and not least as a means for the teacher to have a basis for assessing the student’s competence. Teacher organisations have been very clear on this matter, both when the proposal was out for public consultation last year, and in the committee consultation round. The head of the Education Association has been very clear that Norwegian school needs a limit of absence. The same thing is true for the Lektor Team, which says that they ‘has too many bad experiences with today’s system and looks with concern at the fact that relatively many professionals feel pressured to set their stand on a lack of basis’. The teacher’s organisations, the School Manager’s Association and the Parent’s Committee for Primary Education are among those who are closer to the students, and they all support a limit of absence. I therefore think it is good for the majority in the Committee to say that an absence limit can be introduced in higher education. The Committee is also clear that schools must have clear rules for absenteeism. That's good. The Committee considers that the legislation should not be too rigid, that there should be room for the care of students who are in a vulnerable situation of life, and that the absence limit should not be a substitute for measures aimed at their presence and at preventing non-response. That's good, too. I'm going to start following the Storting decision. The Committee's position shows that there are many considerations that apply here. There are considerations that need to be balanced for teachers, schools and students. We're going to look at this together with the parties in the sector. I will also begin to follow up the wish that the introduction of an absence limit be accompanied by follow-up research, so that after three years we will have a good basis for evaluating and possibly reconsidering the absence limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e679	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e682	The Government Parties and the Minister of Knowledge often repeat that teachers have wanted a limit of absence. But the Federation of Education was also critical of the regulation that the government had introduced, and felt it was too rigid and too strict. Now Stortinget puts an end to that rule, and then it's quite natural that the government parties are constructive and are trying to find a settlement, as they've done with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. But also the government parties in Stortinget are in the position with their own comments about which they are alone, pointing out that there is a need for changes in the regulation, by allowing the principal to exercise discretion. My question is whether the Council of State agrees with the government parties at Stortinget that there was a need to make changes to the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e687	First, the teachers' organisations have been very clear that they want a limit of absence. It was also noticed when the question was whether we should have an absence limit or not. So it's absolutely right that the Education Association wanted a higher absenteeism limit than 10 pst. Both Norsk Lektorlag and the School Leaders Association also said that 10 pst. was a good limit of absence, so there have been shared opinions. But it was clear that it was to be a limit of absence. In that regulation, and not least in the circular that came with it, there was also a sense of the limit that we proposed. What was not there was a general judgement that made it possible to set the rules aside completely in special circumstances. It is a difficult assessment — to be completely honest — because, on the one hand, it makes sense with discretion because sometimes it may be necessary. On the other hand, it also makes it possible to discriminate between students from school to school, and it can create more bureaucracy. But I am very comfortable with the comments that the government parties have in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e696	The majority of the population has now provided a good deal of guidance in the comments agreed by the majority, so that a new regulatory framework must stimulate increased implementation, provide room to complete students who are struggling, do not contribute to unnecessary bureaucracy, provide room for flexibility and discretion, and ensure that this is not perceived as an absence quota for acceptable absence. It is very clear that there must be a good dialogue with the sector. What I'm asking is how the Minister of Knowledge will work to follow up these leaders, and to ensure that you have a good anchoring in the students, at the teacher's organisations and at the KS, which is the school owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e703	I think it's a very important thing that the majority comment, to which the representative Henriksen refers, comes forward. It's that no absence in school is okay if you don't have a reason for it. An absence limit must not be perceived as a clear signal to be away from 5-10-15 pst. of time, but almost like a tolerance limit, which is also present in other parts of society, simply because in practice you have to have some room to be away because of illness, for example. It is difficult to address all undocumented absences from the first hour, at least if you want to have the reaction that you are not being assessed in the subject. I am going to invite the parties in School-Norway to a meeting on this matter as soon as possible. But then we also have to be aware that anchoring does not always mean that everyone agrees. Here's the clear contradictions. Teacher organisations and school organisations want a limit of absence. The student organisation has been clear that they do not want to do so. But it may be possible to get a limit of absence that more people will see more easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e710	This case has shown that it is not such that even if you are in favour of a limit of absence, you are for any limit of absence. It has to be intelligently designed. The objections raised by the Council of State may not have been unknown to the Council of State, whether there were concerns for students who are struggling, what could and could not be documented, lack of judgement, or the danger that some could interpret a limit as an acceptable absence up to a certain limit. There are objections that have been raised much earlier in the process. This is something the Council of State should learn from. It is not the first case in which the Council of State has had strong objections to its proposals, and that the Stortinget has changed on what the Council of State has submitted. Will the Council of State in future cases try to listen a little more carefully to the sector before presenting its proposals and releasing such situations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e715	I always listen carefully to the sector. This has been at the hearing in every conceivable form. It has been one of the most answered hearings in the history of the Education Directorate. There has been no lack of input, rounds or processes around this limit of absence. But then it's quite right, as the representative says, that it's not certain that it's possible to create a limit that looks after absolutely all the considerations at the same time. Let me just give you one example: the school board has been concerned that it will not lead to unnecessary red tape for the individual principal. The more understanding you open up, the more bureaucracy it will lead to for school management. It's a balance. So while, of course, we have to have open processes – it has been, hearings where we listen, yes – one has to dare to make some decisions at some point. That's what it's all about being the Council of States – making some decisions. We established an absenteeism limit that received strong support in the sector. Now Stortinget asks us to come back with an absence limit in a slightly different form. We're going to do the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e722	If we are to sort of minimize this debate, I think the whole Stortinget agrees that we don't want to be mad. That's what's the tabloid heading. All these exceptions are well and good, and we want to take care of them with mental problems, etc. What's the challenge, which we're not solving by 10 pst. Or by 15 pst., this is the sort of thing that we want to live. If we set a limit of 10 pst today, it'll kind of allow students to be away in 10 pst. hours. Do the government councils see that problem? And how does the Council of State think we're going to work on that particular issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e727	I see the problem, and that's one of the reasons why you should think very carefully about how high an absentee limit should be, or how low it should be. If you set it too high, it could mean that too many people could be away too much undocumented, that is, that it can't be documented. So I think it's an incredibly important underlining, which in itself is nothing new, that all the absences that are undocumented are wrong. It's not that it's okay to be away from 5 pst. Or 2 pst. or 1 pst. if you don't have any reason for that. All absences, if not documented, are initially not acceptable. So it's not possible to have such strict penalties for 2 pst. absence which is assumed to be for 15 pst, or for 10 pst. They may be absent, but they may be available in schools, for example: by means of its Rules of Procedure, be clear as to what kind of reactions it should be away from. There is something we should also consider — whether there is something we can make even clearer for schools, and what tools they have to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e736	I guess that's good. I feel very much that the Council of State is now talking about what kind of sanctions schools should be able to use to get rid of the bully. What I was about to get the council to say something about was early follow-up, because that's something we can ask the schools to do. If we want them not to give it the free pot, it has to be early work on the school side, for example. on 2 pst. absence, but I don't know whether it should be up to the schools sea level, or whether we're going to give signals that we're actually expecting the schools to start taking hold of this before the absence approaches 10 pst. or 15 pst. – as it also says in the setting – but that they have to start getting hold of this on 2 pst. This was not a question, but a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e741	Because we're discussing an absence limit, you're going to be on the sanctions side. I am sorry if I did not understand the representative's question correctly, but I fully agree that the most important thing for the presence and attendance at school can never be about an absence limit. It can never be about penalties either. The most important thing is interesting hours, a good school environment, a good learning environment, good dialogue between teachers and students at school, and it's crucial that we be able to catch up early on with those who are starting to struggle with something. This is important for absenteeism and attendance at school, but the most important thing I have contributed to today is perhaps to provide the government's strategy for youth health, along with, among other things. Minister for Health Bent Höie. It is the first strategy on youth health in its time, and it includes, among other things: in itself very much of the work to be done with young people and mental disorders, where the school, of course, also plays a very important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e749	It is tempting to invite the Council of State to a round of critical self-reflection, because the most important job of a Council of State is not to make decisions, but to get decisions through. The loss in this case is due to poor craftsmanship, both in terms of anchoring in the sector and in terms of political anchoring in the Stortinget. But I still want to ask you something else. I am quite sure that I have more parties in the Chamber with me when I say that we will not hesitate to promote a new proposal and take this matter back to Stortinget if we do not now get a significantly different result than what was on the table this spring. The coming absenteeism legislation needs to have a completely different room of discretion and common sense that will make us more confident that it will not lead to an increase in absenteeism among the most vulnerable students. I would just like to ask the Council of State to make it clear in this debate that he has understood and received that message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e756	I read the comments that come from Stortinget, and I have seen that you are concerned with discretion. Then we also need a limit of absence that allows for greater discretion. The majority of the parties have, in different forms, emphasised another thing at least as much, namely cooperation and dialogue with the parties in the sector. It is clear that then the judgement must also be balanced against it, for example. The Education Association, the Lektorlag, the National Association of Schools – they are against an absence limit, but they may also have opinions about this – and the School Leaders' Association wishes. But that a coming limit of absence should have more room for discretion than the discretion contained in the proposal we have had, that's clear. So I just have to point out to the storytelling that the truth here is also that it's a prehistory. There were many schools with absenteeism up to 2009. Then Kristin Halvorsen clarified the legal code. Then it fell away, without getting anything appropriate instead. That's why we had to do this job when we got into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e763	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e768	As a teacher over many years in high school, I am happy that it now appears that an absence limit is to be introduced. The party will stress that teachers have been obliged for very many years to conduct documented and undocumented absences through different learning platforms that the school uses as a tool. The introduction of an absenteeism limit will not give the teacher any additional work in this regard, but rather be involved and help the teacher to take better care of those students who need special follow-up. The Progress Party will stress that higher education is voluntary and that it has agreed to a school place that according to SSB's COSTRA statistics costs society more than DKK 155 000 per year. This is money that every student in high school gets from Norwegian taxpayers. No one can be forced to take secondary education, but everyone has a right to a school place or other training provision. Is it so unreasonable, then, that there is a expectation that one will meet for instruction? In view of the decline in secondary education, action is now needed to make students active in the learning environment and, above all, to try to limit the socio-economic costs in both the short and the long term. Given that, according to the SSB, it is 41 pst. of students who fail to complete and pass the training within a normal time, the absence limit will be one of several important steps that need to be taken to get young people to finish school. The opponents of the absenteeism talk a lot about creating safe and good learning environments. But how can this be done when there are at all times many students who are not present in education? Meeting for teaching is also about respecting your fellow students. There is a strong requirement for a teacher to provide good teaching, and it is often characterised by the development of good relations between teacher and student, the creation of a clear and effective structure for teaching, the organisation of good learning processes, varied teaching, the provision of in-flight assessment, a clear link between objectives, content and working methods, the regular use of feedback and assessment, and the clear expectation of pupils’ performance and their control. If this is to be carried out, the students must be present in the teaching. The Community forms the basis for both the professional and the social and contributes to the completion of the internal market. The Progress Party is pleased that it now appears to be a clear delimitation, where teachers are given an important tool in their working life in order to provide the country’s students with good education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e783	After hearing this debate, where one has tried to present it as if the matter we have on the table today is not a victory for a national border of absence, one should look at Eidsvoll's place. Today, the Student Organisation is demonstrating that the State Council is receiving back coverage in order to introduce a national absenteeism limit. There is little doubt then that the SV's intention when promoting this proposal for a representative has just been to stop a national border of absence. In this way it is gratifying that in this case we get the principle put in place. I would like to say that, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I have experienced this matter as challenging, simply because it has been difficult to get a clear answer as to what such a national exclusion limit should contain. Then it has been very good that we have put in place comments that point in some directions. Because it's okay to be against something, but it's even better if a politician can be for something and be clear about what it is. I believe that it is quite politically demanding to deal with general notifications of absenteeism rules without being willing to decide on the principle of an absence limit. There won't be a rigid absence limit by calling it rigid. There are a number of exceptions to the regulation in force today, which are also pointed out to be applicable to a future new regulation. That is why I am pleased that we now have some principles established. I also think it makes sense for us to put in place follow-up research. It has always been pointed out, by the undersigned and by the Right, that developments in Norwegian school must be knowledge-based. In this way, all kinds of increased knowledge will help us to get better education. We need that, because there's one thing that's certain, is that the drop-out in high school is too high. To make demands is just to care. Seeing the individual student is part of making it possible for us to catch up with those who are struggling in the past, and in the long run it's possible to get more people through this 13-year-old school that's so important if we're going to be able to meet the transition for Norway, where we need to have more capable young people out in the workplace. And there are clear rules for absenteeism.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e794	Today, the Stortinget Minister of Knowledge gives a clear signal to introduce a national threshold for absenteeism in continuing training. The compromise for which the Right Party and the Progress Party were finally supported has solid upswing among teachers, parents and business. It is voluntary to start further education, but it should not be voluntary to attend. It's about respect for their mediocre habits, for the teachers who use time to preside, and to create good postures early in life. We also know that there is a clear connection between their students' presence in teaching, dialogue with their teachers and the results of their students' schooling. For this reason, teachers have also called for a long-term national threshold for absenteeism, and their commitment has been high. Nearer nine out of ten teachers and seven out of ten schools have given their support as the case was out to the audience. That's why the government wanted to introduce an absence limit of 10 pst. for unwarranted absences, and added several exceptions that would ensure flexibility and individual students. Absence due to illness, work as a trustee, agreed study work, religious festivities and a number of other matters take care of most legitimate needs. The government’s proposal has also been supported by school organisations such as Norsk Lektorlag and Skuleleiarverbundet, as well as the parental selection for initial training and by important employers’ organisations such as NHO and Specter. Now also shows an opinion measurement from Infact at over 63 pst. of the population supports a national exclusion limit and that over 62 pst. by these people support this model. The border has created a great deal of debate, and on the initiative of SV, the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have contributed to stopping the government's model. All organisations in the school that support an absenteeism limit gather on the model that has 15 pst. absence limit, and where the principal may grant exemptions in consultation with experts in specific cases. The Right Party and the Advance Party have been willing to find good solutions and launched a compromise based on the Education Federation's model. Luckily, a long political pullout helped to secure the support of the Right and Progress Party from the Labour Party and the Centre Party in order to introduce an adjusted model for a national absenteeism limit. Now, in the dialogue with the education sector, government councils will find a new model of absenteeism. It won't surprise me if she ends up on 15 p.m., and where the principal in particular can make exceptions. The introduction of an absence limit shall be evaluated after three years and follow-up research shall be carried out to provide us with knowledge of how this scheme helps to create a better school. In total, this is good news for Norwegian teachers who have asked for more tools in order to get more people to complete and pass on further training. We need more presence in Norwegian school, and we need a limit on absenteeism.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e809	I think the representative Gudmundsen moves into the desperate ‘spin’ department when he here starts taking the students to income because he has won this case. I think the Right will be earned with a little greater respect for the commitment and resistance they have received, and the clear message that comes from the students that they stand firm on their no to an absence limit, but nevertheless experience what has happened, as an important victory. In this case, the right has been in favour of legislation which was not well enough anchored in the sector and which was not sufficiently politically anchored, and has therefore lost this case. It is that the bulk of the population has now chosen to be more specific in terms of the type of new absenteeism legislation that will come, than the SV and some other parties would now do. We haven't said yes or no to anything, but one of the reasons we wouldn't now commit to, for example. supporting the model of the Federation of Education is the situation we were in, which the Council of State pointed out instead, when Kristin Halvorsen was the Council of State and it had to be clarified that there was no access for local absenteeism in the legislation. That review also showed that it was very difficult to establish national legislation. That's the challenge now, too. It's e.g. It is difficult to create a limit that is not so low on one side that it leads to rejection for the most vulnerable, and on the other side so high that you have suddenly legitimized squalidities for other students. That's the challenge of moving up from 10 pst. Also. That is why I believe that the Workers' Party should not commit itself or go so far towards a particular model that they have now done, but it does not depend on what was most important in this case, namely that we have stopped a regulation that was too rigid. Lin Holvik, who is the principal at Årstad High School in Bergen, wrote an article about why she was at the border of absence, on her blog, which I would encourage everyone to read. It's about all of the students at her school she's met during her school life, who have many, complicated reasons why they might come at noon. 9 instead of 9 p.m. Eight. It's about poverty at home, about someone who's protected his little brother from violence, about someone who works shifts to help at home, about someone who's nervous because they have a dad waiting for a residence permit — anything. There are so many lives out there that this legislation was not flexible enough to set up. That's what this case is all about, the last and seventh, that we're going to continue to have a school that accepts the students who labor the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e824	In the middle of this debate, there may be grounds for recalling what we really have to deal with, because it seems almost as if we have a case to deal with by the government about what an absence code should look like. We don't. We are dealing with something as rare as a proposal from a representative to stop a specific regulation from the government. I don't think I've agreed that this has happened before. It's a very rare and perceptive act, that the Storting simply seems to have to do it. The usual thing would have been for a government council that realized that a regulation was contrary to the bulk of the population to change and adjust its course. I get worried when the Council of State says here from the pulpit that there was broad support for his regulation, because there is something that gives very much concern about how the Council of State is going to listen in the future, if he saw to those degrees the message he gets. The student organization said no, obviously. SL said no, obviously. But the Education Association also said a very clear no to the regulation that the Red Isaac had made. KS, which represents the school owners, gives a hearing response both to the Education Directorate and to the Committee, which must be close to slaughter. And so these are the ones that are going to put this into life. If the Council of State interprets this as a broad agreement and then the next round says that he should listen, the problem is not necessarily the listening, but the interpretation of the message given to the Council of State. Also, after the Workers' Party Group meeting, the Council of State had very difficulties in understanding the message. He went almost hysterically into all the channels and said that now the Workers' Party had said no to the limit of absence, despite the fact that there was nothing in the decision of the Workers' Party that added it. In the middle of the committee reading, he was in all channels and made the discussions in the committee as difficult as possible. It is not uncommon for a student who irons out and who has had many problems with implementation, to try to blame everyone else, whether there are problems in kindergarten, in the competence code or other questions. It's very common to blame school, sensors, compassion, growth, but the best people say, well, here I just have to get together and do a better job, here I have to do that job so real that I get through the next time. Fortunately, the committee kept its head called. I really want to give tribute to Kristin Vinje and Kent Gudmundsen, who have arranged – together with us others – to land this matter in a sensible way. That didn't help the Council of State. My clear call is: Don't see the Storting in the situation that we have to try a prescription twice. Once you're so close to the mistrust you're coming, twice I think a government council just doesn't survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e839	There is no contradiction between the good follow-up of pupils in daily life and the use of absenteeism, which some representatives seem to believe. There has sometimes been a high temperature in the absence case, so high that many people have experienced that the rhetoric has overdoed the attempt to find a solution to a major challenge in school everyday life, and it does not serve Norwegian students. Until that's the case, it's too important. We've all, across the party boundaries, talked about the importance of more people having to go to high school, and that students have to learn more. That's why I'm actually happy that this case seems to be landing now, so it might be possible to achieve a compromise solution with an absence limit, and that we can give the teachers and the school the confidence it is to administer an absence limit with wisdom and discretion. It's optional to start high school, but that doesn't mean it's optional to be present. A school place is a major investment for society, and it also needs to teach children and young people. In that case, a person must be able to require that those who agree to a place be present and use the space when they are not prevented by disease or any other valid reason. A lot of the debate has revolved around whether it is reasonable or unreasonable that high absenteeism should be at the expense of students' grades, and to me, of course, teachers need a good basis to give the students proper professional feedback and character. But it is at least equally important that the students are also trained to see the consequences it has for themselves, for the community and for the learning environment in the class and in the school if a culture develops where undocumented absences are ok. We do the students a bear service if we do not make clear demands for attendance. The school is also a preparation for the wider working life and in a working life undocumented absence is not acceptable. The proposal for an absence limit has been at public consultation, and the majority – a clear majority – wishes to do so. And that has been mentioned, so I don't have to repeat it, but the support from both the Education Association, the Lecturer Team and the business organisations has been clear on this. The recent polls also show strong support among the population for a limit of absenteeism. It is an important statement of support to the Minister of Knowledge, and it is also a strong signal to those who are still in opposition in this matter. Therefore, I hope now that we can manage to get together to get a limit of absence that can be so rigged that it will be of good use both for students and for teachers in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e852	In conclusion, I would just like to conclude by saying what everyone has been about: it has been a demanding matter and a demanding debate. Much, of course, is due to the political clarification of the direction in which it was intended to be drawn, coming all the way to the interviewer. Of course, it has also helped to ensure that the conclusions were as they were. But I am very pleased that we have a clear framework around what we are doing here in this matter today, and I would therefore like to thank the Committee and the Stortinge for the debate and look forward to the further process. For the most important thing now, for us who represent the majority of a national absenteeism limit, is that this is going to happen. I think Norwegian school needs that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e857	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e871	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e878	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on a case that clearly shows the lines of division between the different parties. The background to the SV’s proposal is that public funding for private schooling is to be used by students. The Committee refers to the fact that the provisions of the Law on Secondary Education specify the use of grants and school fees for which primary schools are permitted. In connection with Prop. 84 L for 2014-2015 a review of the legislation on fresh oils was carried out, which underlined and clarified the prohibition on the collection of dividends, inter alia. the introduction of new transparency requirements and increased documentation obligations. The majority of the Committee will refer to the amendments to the Law on Secondary Education adopted in 2015. In this context, it was clarified that the principle that fresh schools should not be approved should establishment lead to negative consequences for public school provision. The majority of the Committee considers that a new amendment to the law, which allows for a reduction of the maximum number of pupils in approved fresh schools, would be an unreasonable intervention in the legal position of colleges. I'm not going to hide that the Progress Party would like to have an even more liberal law of free school than what it came up to earlier this year, but we still believe that it's a good compromise you got the job made. According to the opinion of the Progress Party, the present draft law of SV strongly violates what forms the basis of the new law on free schooling. The Progress Party would point out that SV’s legislative proposals are almost intended to make it impossible to operate fresh schools and other private schools in Norway, and this is something the Progress Party cannot be involved in. The new law on early school leave provides room for new and qualitatively good school provision to start and thus ensure greater diversity and freedom of choice for students. This also facilitates both competition and learning between schools. Publicly funded health schools also provide most people with the real opportunity to choose a private school. This is positive, and the Progress Party will not be involved in anything that goes beyond the possibilities of starting good fresh oils. The Progress Party will further point out that the new law provides both security and predictability for students and employees. The regulations are strict, so that only serious actors are involved. Driving school is a major responsibility, and the Progress Party therefore believes it is right to make strict demands. The Free School Act, as it stands today, facilitates serious actors who want to operate high-quality school activities through good regulation and effective and clear instruments. The system is in such a way that supervision and control are carried out which reveal when actors are infusing State subsidies, contrary to the legislation. Oversight is becoming increasingly professional and effective, and experience with previous offences means that potential offences can be followed up even more effectively in the future. Therefore, some stricter legislation in this area is not needed, in the opinion of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e897	The public schools and schools approved under the Private School Act have enormous responsibilities and a comprehensive mandate for society. Together, they will provide training and equip the students for the future. Last week we discussed free school choices across counties. In that debate, there was a concern expressed by several that we would get a development in which freedom for some could mean restriction for others. The thing we're discussing today has some of the same elements. I would think that almost everyone, or at least most of the people in this room who have been in a municipal government or in a county council, has been involved in dealing with issues of school structure, and then often suggestions about the closure of schools, because you have to save money or because the student population is falling. I have great respect for such a process. The school is in many ways the most important cornerstone of the community, both in terms of its role as a training provider, as a workplace and as a collection point. This applies regardless of whether the school is private or public. The working party is not opposed to private alternatives to public school. Private schools are an important addition to public schools. However, the Workers' Party has been critical of changes in the law that can in the long run lead to too many private schools, so that it goes at the expense of the public offer. We see that it happens somewhere. The draft representative we are discussing today has highlighted Hordaland in particular, with good reason. In 2015, it became clear that Hordaland County would put down Fana Gymnas and Garne's secondary school, because there were too many schools in the county. In Hordaland, relatively many private student places have been established in a short time, and in central Bergen, nearly 50 pst. by students at a private secondary school. There is also concern in Agder about this, particularly with regard to the professional professions. It may seem that today's legislation does not entirely take such situations into account, at least we have to say that it does not ensure the ability of the elected representatives to manage one of the most central welfare services we have. The Labour Party therefore believes that it is natural that when discussing school structure or school provision internally in a state, all schools should be part of such a discussion, both public and private. It's about treating students and schools the same way, because there's a poor balance in the fact that the county council's only option is to reduce public schools and put public schools down, in a situation where the total student population has changed or is falling. The working party does not wish to create unnecessary unforeseeability for students in private schools. We also make this clear in the comments on the matter. The Workers' Party has great confidence that the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, will take good care of this if it is adopted against assumption. It is not our intention that state politicians should be able to reduce the number of private school places at their own discretion, without being put into a whole or a system. There must be clear guidelines on when and how such processes can be carried out. There are also other proposals in the document that we support. One is about reviewing the law to ensure that all state aid to private schools and colleges benefits students. We look at the 2015 supervisory review that there are many schools that over time have larger and smaller discrepancies in accounts, including in the use of government grants. The tightening up we agreed to adopt in 2014 will hopefully help something, but that does not mean that there is no need to review the legislation and that it is sufficient. In particular — as the Council itself acknowledges — there is a need to look at the legislation related to private higher education. We all have the Westerdals thing fresh in memory. Proposals are also made to determine whether private schools should be self-employed foundations. For us, things are a little interconnected, to make sure that the state grant is applied to what it is supposed to do, and to prevent tax planning and creative budgeting through subsidiaries. Denmark has long had such a model, and the Labour Party believes it could be interesting with a thorough investigation whether this is a model that could also work in Norway. I would like to bring up the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e916	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e919	The background to this proposal seems to be the desire to ensure that public funds allocated to private schooling will benefit students. In this respect, the proposal is fully in line with the policy pursued by the Right and the Advance Party of the Government. The consequences of the proposal, on the other hand, do not seem to be reasonable, given our desire to give students and students the real opportunity to choose alternatives other than that country and the municipality can offer at any time. Free schools are a small but important part of the school offer in Norway. Similarly, private universities offer important educational services that help us to obtain candidates with valuable skills in our society. A year ago, the law of free school was amended by decision here at Stortinget. Then we got a small extension of the law, which continued the principle that we should maintain an authorisation system with specific requirements. At the same time, it was agreed that secondary education should also be recognised in vocational education programmes and schools with a specific profile. It was agreed that the approval should continue to be granted after a discretionary assessment and no authorisation should be granted if this has a negative impact on the public school offer. In connection with this amendment, a thorough review of the legislation on fresh oils was carried out, in which the prohibition on the collection of dividends was emphasised and clarified, inter alia. by introducing new transparency requirements and increased documentation obligations. The new law on free schooling also clarified that the municipality’s or county municipality’s view of how a new private school offer would affect the public offer was to be continued. Now, if you were to legislate that you can reduce the number of approved private student places in a municipality, which SV is calling for, it would be unfair to intervene in the legal position of colleges, and it would reduce the ability of students to choose to go to another school. For the right, it is important to safeguard the opportunities of students and students. It is then necessary to create a predictable framework for those who run the training offer. I believe that the law of free school, with the changes that were adopted a year ago, is well suited to ensure that the state grant benefits the students. We see that supervision and control are being carried out that reveal when actors are trying to enrich themselves with state subsidies, contrary to the law. It is important that the authorities develop good practices that help prevent fraud and fraud, but I do not see the need for legislative changes to ensure this. Now it's about making sure that the law we have is well followed up. In the case of private colleges, it is also important to have a regulatory framework to ensure that the state grant is used in line with its purpose, i.e. for the benefit of students. Therefore, it is good that the government has followed up the expert group that delivered its report some time ago. Based on the recommendations of this work, it is now in the government process. We look forward to the proposals of the government that are now being consulted – and which we are receiving here on the Stortinget – which are about improvements in the law to ensure that government grants are used in line with the legislation. Nor can I see any reason to restrict the legislation, so that only one form of organisation is possible for fresh schools and private colleges. The Andreassen Committee's report, the expert committee that has gone through the law for private colleges, points out that both foundations and limited liability companies are appropriate forms of organisation, where it will be possible to supervise and control the use of State grants for what is intended to be used. These recommendations come back here in Stortinget when we get a new treatment law. The government is ahead of SV in ensuring that state grants to schools and private colleges go to the goal of benefiting students and students. The Law on Free Schooling was amended last year, with considerable legislative intensification. The proposal for amendments to the Law on Higher Education which the government has consulted also means that we have more control and supervision-related measures to ensure that the funds benefit students and students. Therefore, the right-hand side does not see any reason to join the SV proposals. A lot has already been done, and more measures are in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e942	Private schools and colleges are an important part of the Norwegian education sector and are an important complement to public school provision. Publicly funded boarding schools are important because they contribute to the exercise of parental rights, i.e. the right of parents to choose an education for their children who are in line with their own religious, moral and philosophical beliefs. It is a right that Norway has committed itself to through international conventions. The private universities help to create a breadth and diversity of the study offer that is valuable to the knowledge nation of Norway. Some of the private institutions are also spearheads within their disciplines. The Christian People's Party has always been a champion of the private alternatives. We want a policy in which we make provision for boarding schools and private educational institutions, and we want to give them viable and, not least, predictable framework conditions. But the Christian People's Party has never been for a free slip in high school law. We have been quite restrictive on the issue of commercial schooling, and we have been aware that the schools receiving government grants should be schools that provide a real alternative to public schools, including content. That's why it was important for the Christian People's Party when the government wanted to liberalize the law of free school – and in practice open to a free slip – to hold back and keep as much as possible of the thinking that led to the free school agreement that we had with the red-green parties. We did it. I want to commend the Minister of Knowledge for highlighting just the predictability of the sector when he chose to make a compromise with the Christian People's Party in that matter, even though the government initially had a majority in the Grand Duchy for a substantial liberalisation, with the support of the Left. We still have a purpose-driven law of free school. It is not free to start private schools and require State or local government grants, and the private alternatives must provide real alternatives to public schools. I am not sure whether the SV proposers have thought so much about the predictability of the colleges, when they now propose that it be possible to shut down the fresh schools or to reduce the number of students in already approved schools, for the sake of the public school. It would create great unpredictability for the schools and not least for the students. It is already in the law that you can say no to the approval of a high school if the establishment will have a negative impact on the public school offer – and that’s reasonable – but I think it’s too far to give the opportunity to shut down schools that are already approved. I am also afraid that if this were to be adopted against assumption, we could risk seeing that it is the political color of the local government that will determine the future of the free schools. With regard to the proposal to review the law to ensure that money provided in the form of government grants to private schools and colleges benefits the students, I believe that the proposers are concerned about something important. In the case of post-secondary education, the changes made to the law on early childhood education have already well taken care of it. And in the case of private colleges, there are also things going on. The Andreassen Committee has presented its report and made a number of good suggestions and input that it is worth looking at. The Minister of Knowledge has promised that he will do so and that this report will be followed up. Both the question of the principle that student payments and state grants will benefit students, and the question of organisational requirements, the Stortinget will be given a good opportunity to take a thorough debate on when this matter comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e963	First, thank the SV proposers for addressing this important matter, i.e. these important themes related to changes in the Private School Act. Let me make the following point: the centre party defends the parental right, i.e. the parents' right to choose alternative training for their kids in addition to what the public school offers. That being said, it involves a large commitment to run a private school with State aid, and that is precisely why it should not be a source of personal financial gain. As you know, in recent years there have unfortunately been a number of issues where private schools have challenged the legislation. These schools have had to pay back state subsidies after the supervision revealed that the school owners have taken out profits in various ways contrary to the law. For example, two secondary schools in the John Bauer group had to be established. repaying 7.3 million. kr to the Education Directorate in 2009 and the issue is the same for private colleges. In the autumn of 2015, Anthon B. Nilsen revealed more than 100 million people in today's economy. kr from their state-aided private schools, including Westerdals College, despite the prohibition of dividends. We are aware of the fact that the Ministry of Knowledge finally had to deal with the matter and went to the step to report Westerdals. In May, the school was targeted by Ecocrim. Unfortunately, this shows that despite good intentions and strict rules, some private owners of secondary schools and colleges try to circumvent the law and collect private profits, either through complex corporate structures and transactions, artificially high rents or other crunches. We get to believe that a new private school law helps to stop that happening, but regulation is rarely completely waterproof. Such crimes are not just a waste of students' or students' money. They're also a run of money that the community sets aside for education. In addition, large sums are forced to be set aside for supervision and control by the public. The Central Party therefore supports the proposal to assess the legislation of other countries in this area. The draft representative refers to the legislation in Denmark, where all private schools receiving State grants are required to be organised as sea-lord foundations. The Danish law also allows for the government grant to be withdrawn from a school if it is not sufficiently likely that the school is independent of other companies. The Centre Party considers that such an investigation of legislative change and ownership should also include an assessment of private schools organised as cooperatives. The second important point in this case is the proposal to include private secondary schools in a county school plan – I ask you to note the word ‘school plan’ – in order to try to ensure predictability in the school offer, both for the county municipality as the responsible authority in the process of dimensionalising the offer, for the students who are going to go there, and also for the private schools. It can't be the way we now experience some places, that public schools need to be reduced and laid down, while the private can be maintained no matter what the rest of the world looks like. The centre party believes that the law must ensure that all students have a fair offer wherever they reside. It is said that in areas with a low student base, it will be more difficult to maintain the breadth of the programme provision at secondary level, especially in the outlying regions. We also have these experiences from Uppland, where schools outside the towns of Lillehammer and Gjøvik are struggling with this. It is important that the provision at the district schools is not so narrow that the students are, in effect, pressured to move away from the district schools and into the cities. This is the beginning of a negative spiral for the total school offer. Therefore, the dimensioning of the offer by the county is so important, and therefore it is so important that private secondary schools also have to be seen in connection with the other offer. It'll be short and one-sided to build out in cities because the search is good. It has a consequence on the offer several miles away. It is again about apprenticeship places later and the possibility for students to complete the education they have started. That is why we in the Centre Party believe that private schools should be included in a school plan. I think we have slightly different opinions about this because we come from different areas of the country and have a little different experience. Some of us who come from the big counties with very large geographical areas may have different experiences than those from small and transparent counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e986	Although there is no majority of the proposals promoted by SV in this proposal for a representative, something very important emerges, namely that there is a red-green consensus on a different course. I think that's a pleasure. It shows that there may be important changes after the election next year. I would also like to stress that I believe that the intentions of this and the political thrust of the proposals that have been put forward are also entirely in line with the spirit of the agreement of the red-green parties with the Christian People's Party in the previous period. The aim here is not to prevent private alternatives to public schools — we are against it — but to prevent carpentry and to prevent private schools from leading to dramatic undesirable changes in the public school structure, such as: may result in poorer professional provision in some counties or in the setting up of district schools. There is a type of regulatory adjustment that I think is important in order for us to just have some private alternatives and supplements to work in a better and best way for the Norwegian high school. Let me first concentrate on this with grants and profits. Private secondary schools and colleges receiving state subsidies do not have access to the proceeds. Nevertheless, in recent years there have been a number of cases in which such schools have had to pay back State subsidies. Despite strict and clear rules, some high school owners and colleges seem to be able to collect money through, among other things. complex corporate structures. The detection of this type of crime requires a high level of public expenditure for supervision and control. For example, the Education Directorate had to: use seven annual works and approximately SEK 850 000 in external assistance to detect and collect the 12.5 million. NOK that the Academy had to pay back. Last year's class struggle revealed that only 5 out of 315 private schools were checked for abuse of State aid. Of these five, three received a claim for a refund. Then we also know from other countries that there is a danger that complex ownership structures will be accompanied by comprehensive tax planning. The spring we've had, with Panama Papers and the revelations around tax havens, is also a reason why we should tighten up and clean up our legislation. We know from Sweden that very many of the major commercial private actors involved in welfare and school there have branches to tax havens, and that tax money ends up in tax havens. So even with a dividend ban, as we have in Norway, we're not free from the risk that money might end up somewhere else than where they're going to end up. Our starting point is that every penny we give to school is going to go to school, that every penny we give is going to benefit the students. If we suspect that our system today cannot guarantee that it is, we need to do something to change it. In Denmark they do not have these scandals that we have had. A crucial reason for this is that they require private schools to be organized as self-owned foundations. I think it's interesting to see that the civil government in Denmark thinks it's a very good system, while the bourgeois opposition in Norway thinks it would be an unfair treatment of private schools. I would recommend – it is not so often I do – a good dialogue with the Danish right-hand side on this issue in the future. We think it would be good to have a more uniform form of organisation of private secondary schools and colleges in Norway. This can happen either through a model of foundations, such as in Denmark, or through cooperatives, where we have a good and functioning law in Norway. I come back to the second part of the proposal, which is related to the situation out in the states, in another post.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1005	Free schools are a small but important part of the overall training provision in Norway. Free schools provide students and parents with the opportunity to choose alternative schools and contribute to increased diversity in national provision and to more inter-school learning. A legislative amendment that allows for a reduction in the maximum number of pupils in approved schools, as requested by the proposers, would be an unreasonable intervention in the legal position of the colleges and would also put aside students' desire to attend an alternative school. Private universities play an important role in the Norwegian education system in the same way as colleges. Private actors contribute to the training of candidates and to the development of skills of great importance for social and work life. The vast majority of hospitals and private colleges in Norway are professional and solid actors engaged in providing quality training and education. Most private actors want to operate within the regulatory framework, and they are committed to providing students and students with what they require. I am concerned that government funds should be used for the purpose for which they have been granted. Free schools and private colleges which receive national recognition and grants from the State in order to carry out their activities shall do so within the limits set by us and under the conditions laid down by law. It is a central requirement of both the Law of Higher Education and the Law of Higher Education that state grants are to benefit students and students. The requirement to benefit from State grants has been part of the legislation since the first law on private schools came into force in 1970. Since then, the conditions have been clarified and expanded both through legislation and through administrative practices. I Prop. 84 L for 2014-2015, the Ministry carried out a thorough review of existing legislation on fresh oils, including: in order to assess whether the legislation has sufficiently ensured the intention of the law that grants should benefit students. The review led to the adoption of key principles of administrative practice by law, and the Stortinget adopted more restrictive measures in June 2015 in new law on early school leave. The prohibition of dividends was underlined and clarified, and several instruments aimed at ensuring that the grant benefits the students were introduced. The proposers refer to the recent judgment in the Akademie case. Through supervision and supervision activities, the Directorate-General for Education and Training has revealed that funds were made available in breach of the requirement to benefit students — an assessment shared by the Ministry of Knowledge. In the District Court, the Ministry of Knowledge won out on its case. I believe this illustrates that we have a sufficiently clear code, that we have a control and supervision function that works, and that there is a breach of rules. It is my opinion that today's legislation, with the amendments that were adopted that the Stortinget in June 2015 in the field of higher education, is well suited to ensure that state grants benefit students. At the same time, there is a constant need to assess whether new regulatory changes are needed to ensure this. The proposers believe that the requirement to operate fresh oils as self-proprietary foundations according to the model of the Danish law will help to ensure that the subsidy is used in line with the law to a greater extent than at present. I disagree with that. The form of the foundation will properly prevent ordinary distributions of profits to owners, as foundations are ownerless enterprises, but the form of the foundation will not solve what is the greatest real risk, namely that state grants are used for purposes other than school activities, and that funds are indirectly taken out through related trade. I therefore believe that a requirement for the form of formation implies a restriction on the freedom of organisation that is not proportionate to what is achieved. Private colleges are also subject to the requirement that state grants should benefit students. The legislation of the Law on Higher Education is not as well developed as the Law on Higher Education, but nevertheless contains central regulations on bans on distribution and related trade requirements. The Ministry's letter of grant sets out more specific requirements for the use of funds, accounts and documentation. As mentioned above, the main impression is that most actors operate fairly and well. At the same time, there is no doubt that control of this part of the education sector has been too poor for many years. There is a weakness that has gone over several government periods and many knowledge ministers. In autumn 2013, an expert group was set up to investigate and propose new regulations related to this sector, i.e. higher education. I chose to continue this work, and the expert group delivered its report to me more than a year ago. The report has been consulted, and on 12 May proposals for new regulations were sent at public hearings. I have proposed regulations that clarify and make it clear that there is a distribution ban for private colleges that receive state subsidies. In addition, I propose a number of documentation requirements and accounting requirements, as well as regulation of supervision and penalties, to mention something. Among other things, we have refer to the regulations of the Law on Secondary Education in this area. One of the proposals sent out is that private colleges must be operated either as a limited liability company or as foundations. There are regulated forms of organisation that provide a good framework for private higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1034	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1037	The vast majority of private school providers are decent and serious, but out of 10 supervision in 2015, four claims for reimbursement were made because the grants did not benefit the students. In four of the 10 inspections, it was also found that schools were engaged in activities other than normal, normal schooling. Three schools received notice of withdrawal of approval. There are few of many, but on the other hand, there are many of the few that are controlled. In addition, we read from the 2015 supervisory report that the Education Directorate, Udir, does not have the capacity to supervise schools that they assume have a particular risk of breach of the rules. With all this behind: does the Council of State really believe that today's legislation, and not least the supervisory regime, is good enough to prevent future breaches of the rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1044	The supervisory regime is not designed to guarantee a future breach of the rules. Then you would have to have a supervisory regime that was enormously large, enormously costly and based on mistrust of private schools or hospitals. I don't want to. The Directorate of Education has received additional funding from the government budgets earmarked for the supervision of primary schools. The law was strengthened by the cooperation parties when we adopted a new law on free schooling, among other things. so that the Education Directorate would be more able to enter and require confirmation or documentation from the schools that transactions with related persons actually occurred at market prices, which is one of the major problems if you wish to transfer or withdraw part of the State grant. My assessment is that the system we have today is good, that the legislation is good and that the supervisory authority works well. Then I must also mention that the Directorate of Education is far more supervising than what is mentioned here, but that is concrete supervision in relation to the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1053	It is only to acknowledge that the Council of State believes that the legislation is not only good, he also says that it is good enough. The Labour Party disagrees. But we also have to go over to Bergen. 17 pst. of the students in the secondary school in Hordaland attend a private school. There is now a surplus of 1,000 student places in the county, and the county misses nearly 100 million. kr in state transfers. Public schools are laid down, and students lose their schooling. A parent told BA before Christmas that he was afraid that the children would get a worse school offer, and that the public offer would get it even harder financially and thus lead to even more closures. The situation is the same in Agder, where concerns are expressed particularly about vocational training programmes. My question is: does the Council of State consider these to be good examples and lucky organization of school provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1066	The discussion about school structure is not unique to Hordaland, I think it is going on in almost all states in Norway, as the representative from the time he was active in the Telemark county municipality knows. There aren't a lot of private high schools there, but it's just as full that there's always a suggestion to drop out of public schools – just so it's said. I understand the argument of state politicians that when they have to go through the school structure, it would be easier for them if they could regulate the colleges up and down, or perhaps even put in fresh schools and bring them into the school use plan in that way. This would lead to a total lack of stability and predictability for these boarding schools. It would remove the students’ grounds for choosing alternative offers outside the public and thus rocked by parental rights. It would also have rocked by the very consensus that the Workers' Party says they had with the Christian People's Party in the previous period, and that they have, at least until now, said that they have set high.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1073	I would also like to address the situation in my own country, Hordaland, because the Council of State uses the term 'impropriety' here about what we want to give the state politicians an opportunity to do to private schools. But this affects the much-happy freedom of choice that the Council of State is otherwise talking about very much. What we are at risk of getting in Hordaland is a situation where so many private schools are established that the possibility of offering the variety of educational courses that students in our county need, and the possibility of maintaining a geographical breadth in the provision of youth throughout the county, are seriously weakened. What is so hopeless for local elected representatives is that as much private school space as we now have in Hordaland is to be exempted from that discussion, because it affects students' freedom of choice, so the result is less investment in professional and district schools. Is it not an unreasonable response to students in our country that the Council of State refuses a possibility of such an overall assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1078	I believe that today's legislation ensures this – at least in total – in a good way. This is why we have one – to be completely honest – inmari rigid bureaucracy associated with fresh schools both for approval and if one is to expand the number of student places, and that is precisely because we are trying to balance the considerations. On the one hand, the county has to have a certain overview, which means that a private school or high school can't suddenly say that they have 150 extra applicants, and then they expand the number of places. On the other hand, we want supplements to the public. We want to, for example: life-vision schools or educational alternatives and now also vocational schools, if you want to start them, will have an opportunity to start up. So I just have to say, even though I'm not going to interfere in the discussion in the Hordaland County, that there are enough people who have the impression that at least the parties that won the local elections had said in advance that they should not do anything about the school structure and not put down certain schools. When you do the opposite, it's clear that the discussions and reactions are getting extra strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1085	The challenge now in Hordaland is that the county councillor has presented a school use plan that shows the need to scale down by 1000 places. This is due, inter alia, to: natural variations in the student coals. It shows how unreasonable the starting point of the Council of State is, for what the government assumes is that part of the school structure should be raised above the discussion of structural changes and total peace when entering into such a discussion, while another must take the full burden. I find it very strange that the Council of State is so concerned with the freedom of some school owners from intervention, while others, namely the county councils, have to take the full burden. The problem here is that, in practice, eternal approvals are given to private schools, but not to public schools. We need to be able to have a more flexible set of rules, which also applies to private schools, taking into account fluctuations in student numbers. Why is that unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1090	Firstly, just to repeat it, it is precisely because of today’s legislation that is bureaucratic, to say the least, for fresh schools that set their student numbers, it is necessary to apply within a given time limit in order to provide predictability for the counties. If the applicant states that this will have a negative impact on the school structure, it is not essential, but there is a serious argument against the school being approved, thereby ensuring that it is maintained. But in principle, if we were to get the system that Audun Lysbakken wants, the county council had to have the opportunity to also put down the hospitals. It's the only logical consequence of it. It is clear that this is the first time that a completely different post-secondary education system is outlined than what we have today, but it will also go across one of the main reasons for infirmary schools, namely that students, regardless of where they live in the country, wanting, for example. a Christian alternative to public school should be given the opportunity to do so and be given the opportunity to do so under State aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1095	I would encourage the Council of State to study carefully the situation in Bergen. There is the fact that many of the private options have been created too long ago, as the size of the student coals was different from today, and many of them do not represent a pedagogical or religious alternative. And that's the core of the problem here, because if there's no safety valve that makes that, for example. private providers of fully ordinary specialisation education may be required to scale down, the whole burden will be placed on the public and then quickly hit the breadth of the school offer in a county. Therefore, my question remains: what is reasonable in giving private school owners so much power over what kind of study offerings are to be found in a county?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1100	I understand the issue. I believe that with the solution SV outlines, if you're going to follow it to its logical consequence, it's really the only way to do it. This means that the county must also have the right to lay down private secondary schools or require them to halve the number of student places, 70 pst. fewer student places, and then really – to be quite honest – the most sensible thing is to say that then we let the counties decide whether to approve or not to approve fresh oils. In that case, it will be at the expense of what we think – and which has been agreed on until now – is one of the main reasons for allowing supplements. There has been a cross-political consensus that alternatives to public policy should be chosen, for example: a Christian secondary school or a school based on a life - vision minority. Now I don't have an overview of the details in Hordaland, since I'm not elected to the people of Hordaland, but this process is taking place in all the counties of Norway, and has been going on for years in all the counties of Norway, i.e. you have to look at the school structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1108	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1111	This debate is not about whether one is for or against fresh or private schools, or what one calls it, but about how the relationship between public and private schools should be regulated, about what kind of agreements the private providers of training should have with the public. Today, municipalities have the right to cancel when they start looking for a place to start or when they seek to expand. Promises state that an authorisation shall not be granted if the approval has a negative impact on the public school supply. - So far, so good. The Council of State here says that the acquis is a good thing. In the setting it is stated in a comment from the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that if SV's proposal were to be adopted, it would be an unreasonable intervention in the legal position of the colleges – i.e. the proposal to reduce the number of private student places in a municipality or county municipality. I'm completely disunited. The proposal that private schools should also be able to be evaluated in a school plan is only fair and reasonable. This is not a proposal to have a ‘running rating’, such as Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left type in the option. In the school plan for the Hordaland County Municipality, which is now out on the ears, all the private secondary schools are left out. In the municipality of Bergen, they make up about 50 pst. of the student places. It is proposed to reduce the number of schools from 43 to 34. There are countless schools in the district that are proposed to lay down as a compensation for the over-establishment of private schools that have over time taken place in the municipality of Bergen central. The county loses a lot of money, and they're forced to grab such a grip. I don't understand the argument that this should be so unnatural for the private people. Sees how one regulates the use of private in other fields, e.g. in the health field, you have the private parties with more short-term contracts than this, which is actually a life-long contract once you have received an authorisation and do nothing illegal. In the area of child protection, there are four-year contracts, and in the area of alcohol and mental health, there are four-six-year contracts, so it's very funny that the government parties here protect those who run private schools, while other private providers within the public sector have to be regulated in a completely different way. So the proposal for SV is incredibly important, and there should have been multiple speeches with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1124	I wanted to take the floor to comment also on the part of the proposal on which the representative Toppe was now involved. The representative Toppe gave a very good account of the situation in Hordaland. We are several Hordaland representatives present here now, and I think I can say that there are cross-political concerns about the situation we are in. It is also an important part of the reason why SV promoted this proposal. We cannot accept that students' choices should be restricted because of the unwillingness to impose the same requirements on private schools as public schools, namely that the offer must be adapted to the number of students who need a course of education. It's the simple principle we're asking for, and it's true, as Kjersti Toppe had in mind, for private providers in all other areas where the public buys services from the private sector or provides it with private money to provide public services. I think it's nice that the rhetoric of freedom of choice, which is otherwise so important to the right, does not apply here. What we see in Hordaland and other states is that if you can't do anything about the scope of private offerings, it has something to say about what kinds of educational courses are offered. It is today that private schools mainly offer study-specific education programmes. Three out of four students in private secondary schools are on a preparatory education programme. In Hordaland, according to the County Councillor, there are more than 1,000 student places. It will necessarily put us in a situation where there is a great danger that a surplus of private student places in the field of study specialisation will leave the county council too little money to finance vocational training and to maintain schools in the districts. It affects students' freedom of choice, and it is wrong policies if we are engaged in society's competence needs. That is why our proposal is a very simple one. It is not a question of stabbing chains in the wheels for those who want to offer educational or religiously based alternatives, it is a question of the reasonableness that all offers should be assessed in a situation where it has to be cut. And then you say, what about predictability? Then my answer is, what about predictability? Because there must be the same natural requirements for all, both public and private school owners, that what kind of opportunity you have to offer and get public funding for it depends on how many young people out there need what you offer. It's that simple. It even reminds me of an easily understandable market principle, which should be easy for the right-hand side to sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1137	What made me take the floor here is the rather fascinating approach to taking part in higher education around Norway. It is not that capacity adopted when the study catalogue is outsourced forms the basis for how many students at any time each school around a county receives. I have experienced it myself, up to several times, to see the challenges of it. In this way, there is always a competition for the students, which is really the core of what we are discussing today. Many schools, especially in the Tromsø area, where I live, discuss capacity violently and enthusiastically in December when it comes to how the school offer should be in Troms, and in Tromsø in particular. Although many schools are allocated quite rough capacity when the study catalogue is published searchable, it is in no way certain that it is neither the search for the cause nor the fasit for which offers have the life after, which comes on March 1st when we are familiar with the students' choices. Then I think that the principle is really similar for the private schools now under the law of high school that we have today. Although they have been allocated a capacity, each student actually has to make a quite active choice to make use of that offer at all. First of all, it's not 100 pst. covered by the State, but 85 pst., which means that one should be quite aware of the choice one takes because one has to pay school fees to avail himself of that offer. Secondly, it is also a signal that the public school is unable to deliver the offer that students want and experience as attractive. For students, a conscious choice is made when they take their education in terms of what may happen to them later in working life and in further education. Then I think that if we are first to have a debate on dimensioning educational services, and I feel that the Lightbaken in particular is taking the floor from the Chair, we have to take into account that there are issues related to the addition of study specialisation and preparatory subjects that are a challenge today. We see that too many students who choose a professional course actually intend to take preparatory education, and that's because you know that next time there's enough capacity in public schools to build up. That's where you find it. I think we can safely conclude that capacity is not the main challenge in this case. That's what the students are looking for. In this way, I believe that the majority have a good position in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1148	This matter is primarily about our young people, that they are given the opportunity to have a real choice as to which courses of education and which part of the working life or higher education they want in the long term. The situation we now have in Hordaland, makes the industrial district of Hordaland on its way down to about anything of professionalism, including Rubbestadnes, which was the school that was recognized as the best in the country. In fact, it is not economics to finance vocational schools — which are relatively more expensive — and that means that more young people in Hordaland have to travel and live on shelter to choose education, or that they choose faults, which have consequences for the drop-out rate, which is already high across the country, not especially in Hordaland. There's a desperate situation Hordaland has come up in. In the last period, it was with one voice that we advised that new offers should be established. Now we see that they are bound, both economically and in terms of choice and development in Hordaland, which has a high level of unemployment and tradition for industry. We still need young people applying for industry, and then the school places are not here! It has incredible consequences. On behalf of the Workers' Party and those in the Education Committee, I am extremely pleased that through this proposal, SV focuses on something that is not sustainable and not least on young people in the whole country, especially in districts – which we have a lot of in Hordaland – not getting a real choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1157	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1160	It could seem as if a debate about dimensioning was something I had invented because it had been a bit nice to have. However, a debate on dimensioning is a hard reality in the counties because you have to deal with and adopt school use plans, and because public schools have to dimension their school offer. It's the only responsible way to manage money. The problem here is that the only people who don't need to take part in a discussion about dimensioning are the private school owners, because they're exempt. The challenge now in Hordaland, for which the right obviously does not have a cause for concern, is that because the profession is so much more expensive — it costs about a quarter. 20 000 SEK more per student — than study specialists — when the county has a poor economy, the number of students goes down, and so much money is tied up in the private schools, the professional offer that is being offered. That should worry Right. Instead, it has been said that some people want a debate on dimensioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1165	This debate has a rather serious background, that over 40,000 young people under the age of 25 are unemployed, and that 15 000 young people in each coal leave high school without completed vocational education or preparatory studies — in a situation where unskilled jobs disappear at a record pace. Therefore, it should really be a common goal for this hall to ensure that all these young people get a good offer where they live. The Council of State waved here instead with a booklet dealing with measures for young people who are struggling, and this is a large group. The question is: is it going to be easier or more difficult when the county no longer gets the opportunity to dimension the total offer they have? There is a reason why the municipality of Troms, for which the representative Gudmundsen has been responsible, has not introduced a so-called free school choice, because it is a pig-grown state, one lives in many places, and it is difficult for people to get education if not the county can control where the offer should be. It is quite a good experience – or rather a bad one – but good empirical evidence that extensive privatisation allowed consultants around Norway to sit in Clemet's reign and plan which public schools were to be laid down. It was just the government change in 2005 that stopped this. Then state councils hide behind life schools or religious schools or alternative pedagogics. It seems that it has been forgotten that during his time this room has changed the law so that there is no need for such a justification for setting up private secondary schools — especially for professional schools, because it is free for private schools. But it's not an equivalence that's been introduced. There is a right of priority for private schools, because they are to be protected from the cuts that are coming. It must be public schools without being able to see the public and private offer in context. I can almost not get into a single public procurement system or a procurement sector that is organised according to the principle that if one has first made a procurement agreement, it stands almost forever, no matter what the public needs of the years to come. It must be called public waste – I can't understand anything else – to spend the money that way. Finally, I think we can stop using the term ‘free choice’. For whom is it free school choice for? Of course, it's free school choices for those who have the grades or, in the worst case, the money, to get the offer they want. For the time being, payment limits have been maintained, but they are not called free school choices. Call it a preference for those who have the best grades, and then get the others to take what's left. So neither the majority of the students nor the state politicians have to decide about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1176	In the proposal for a representative and from here it is now claimed by the SV that the law stands in the way of the election of the people to take the choices they think are best for the students in their country. Let it be clear that, on the part of the Progress Party, we do not see that it is the politicians who can and must make the best choices for the students. It's the students, possibly with the help of their parents or other relatives, who do the best for themselves. Freedom to choose where you want your own schooling, the Progress Party believes should be a fundamental right for each individual student. It is the needs of the students that are important, not the needs of the politicians. The private schools will have to make an offer based on the students' actual demand. It will never really be true that the private schools have a lot of unfilled student places. It stops itself. They must provide the quality and the direction of study that students want to apply for and go to. This will provide the basis for them to actually run a school and provide offers that students want to make use of. The most important thing is that it is the students who are going to thrive and who are going to seek and want to take a training course to facilitate it. Finally, I would like to clarify a little bit about the word ‘privatisation’ that is used. It's not about any privatisation, as it's actually the public that's going to pay the school place you might want, whether it's a private school or a public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1185	I needed to make some further clarifications, because I think it would be short cut in this whole case. Firstly, it is claimed that this is at the expense of the profession. Now, once again, if a student chooses a free school with a special offer, it is actually more reasonable, since the county council is drawn to, the framework is for a specialization place and not a professional place. So I can't see that the two things can be set up against each other. Finally, it is a matter of not being paid for a student who does not exist. That's how everyone has to dimension. Both public and approved boarding schools have to measure according to the number of students actually admitted to school. There's nothing unreasonable about that. It makes sense, really. So I can't help but see how you can say through your chosen capacity that you kind of have a protection. No, you don't have any protection. In fact, it will be the search that determines whether there is an economic basis for operating within the potential capacity allocated to it as a post-secondary school. That is why I believe that the reasoning for, among other things, The lighthouse fails completely, because he does not take into account that study specialisation is a far more reasonable offer than professional education, or that the students actually have to be admitted to that school in order to receive support at all. I also think quite clearly that yes, you have free school choices in all, most of the counties in Norway, because even those who do not have completely free school choices in a whole state have often divided their ranks into school regions. So have they in Troms. It is not that there is only one school with study specialisation in the Tromsø region, for example. In this way, of course, students will also be free to choose freely between the training programmes offered there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1196	I honestly think it's quite unlikely to listen to any of the things that are said from the pulpit here. When Kent Gudmundsen is going to explain the context of what is happening in Hordaland, I'm going to ask him to take a trip to Hordaland and go around, listen to the state politicians and get into the school plan that's on the Internet and on the phone. That plan proposes the closure of professional schools. The representative, Ruth Grung, referred to the Professional School of Rubbestaden, which was proposed for closure. It is the school that, in a national report from the Ministry of Knowledge, came out of schools in the country. Fitter's school on Stord is laid down, and so is Austrheim. It's the outboard balls that's being laid down. Then we can talk about freedom of choice – that this should be regulated almost as in a purely market regulation, and that the county council that owners of schools should not care and not look at this and make decisions. Then you can understand it so that there is no need for a school plan at all. The representative, Lill Harriet Sandaune, said that this is about the students and not the politicians' choices, and that the law doesn't stand in the way of anything. But I'm going to believe that both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are some of them in that an approval should not be given if the approval has negative consequences for the public offer. But they thought it was entirely right that one should not have tools in the future that would make the development of the school offer have consequences for the public supply of Rubbestadneset, Fitjar and Austrheim, because the individuals who have received an approval should have an approval for all time if they do not break the law, take too much exchange, pay too much or do other things that are directly illegal. The SV representative proposal has changed since it was launched, and it is a very important change, because it is now linked to a school plan. The school plan for Hordaland, which I brought with me here, runs from 2016 to 2030. Then to write in a note that this is ‘unforeseeable’ for the private – I believe that when private people get such an approval for a secure income, it is not ‘unforeseeable’, it is very cautious, and not least it is fair to students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1206	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1220	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1227	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Two different minority proposals have been put forward in the Committee — a proposal aimed at gradually introducing more physical activity in school, with objectives of one hour of physical activity for all pupils, in all parts of the training, and a proposal to introduce a scheme to ensure 1–10 pupils. steps at least one hour of physical activity each day, within the limits of today’s hours. This is a matter that has been discussed several times in recent years, last in Document 8:59 S for 2013–2014. In the previous period, this theme was quite four times in different variants. So this is not a new issue for Stortinget. But it's an important topic. According to the Institute of Public Health, 16 pst. of all Norwegian third classes obese. Obesity and obesity are a serious challenge to public health. There is no doubt that there is a link between physical activity and good health. The Committee is also clear that the school plays an important role in developing attitudes and good practice and in balancing social differences in living and health. Physical activity in childhood provides the basis for mastering, well-being and health later in life. There are good opportunities for physical activity in school within today's framework. Several schools in the country have shown that it is possible to obtain physical activity every day without entailing high costs, and without compromising the efforts of other subjects. Some examples of this are outpatient school, a longer break in the middle of the day, cooperation with local sports, etc. The Committee has also noted the Public Health Institute's health report, including: is: ‘Physical activity at school may contribute to increasing the level of physical activity and may also have a positive impact on school performance.’ This is also an area where some things happen on the research front. As a follow-up to the Public Health Communication, an experiment is about to be launched in selected secondary schools to study the effects of more physical activity and/or physical activity on learning and health. The Committee also meets the results of the research survey carried out by the Norwegian Sports School, which will be presented shortly. It should also be mentioned that the political parties are now in the process of developing programmes for the next enlargement period. You should not ignore that this is a theme that can also appear in that context. For the Left, it has been essential to launch a project from which it is natural to draw on experience, before any policy decisions on further action are taken. We are well aware that there are significant positive effects on public health, and that there may also be learning outcomes from increased physical activity in school, but the treatment here earlier in the Stortinget shows that there is considerable uncertainty in the choice of model, the impact on other subjects and the budgetary implications. A gradual introduction, to which this proposal for a representative is addressed, is a prudent approach. But in a situation like the one we're in now, where we're waiting for more knowledge, we think it's right to wait for it, and that's what we're now adding up to. So I also want to add for the left part that initially we believe that this is an area where the schools of the school owner and school manager should have a lot to say when it comes to how physical activity is to be organized. There are many local opportunities to realise increased physical activity without affecting national leadership in hours, and there are also many examples of this in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1251	We know that regular physical activity is necessary for normal growth and development and good health. There is good evidence that physical activity has a positive effect on mental health, concentration and learning. We have all experienced children who have challenges to sit still, and the joy they have of running, jumping and climbing and mastering new things. People are created for movement. But something happens when children start school. Already as 9-year-olds, only two out of three are active in approx. one hour a day. As 15-year-olds, only half meet the minimum recommended activity of one hour per day, and the girls are less active than the boys. Lack of activity makes us sick. 80 pst. is dying of chronic lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancer and coal. Physical activity can prevent and reduce the negative impacts of health challenges. For most people, it gives you an increased quality of life. Nothing is as good for health as physical activity. Being active has greater effect than quitting smoking and eating healthy. School is a good venue for health promotion and creates good habits of stimulating daily physical activity. It is shown in the attitude to how many times the Storting has dealt with proposals for more physical activity for children and young people, but there is still new knowledge and new recommendations that prove that development is moving in the wrong direction. There is broad political agreement, which was also discussed by the rapporteur, on the importance of physical activity. The disagreement is about how and how fast it is to be phased in. Going or cycling to school and activities in the community are simple and feasible measures if school and parents cooperate. In addition to providing daily physical activity, the interaction on the school path is with and develops social skills. We also record today that when the Minister of Health makes his proposal on a youth health plan, he starts the whole article with how happy he is to ride, and a call for more cycling. The previous national transport plan had a national objective of 80 pst. children and young people would go to school or bike, but there has been a surprising heavy case to fight for. There is clearly more status to mark a new road than safe school roads. In fact, more people are driving to school today than ever. I also refer to the Jan Åge Fjørtoft-led selection that the government has put down on State sports policy into a new era. The committee presented its report on 8 June, and the most obvious recommendation was to focus more on width and physical activity that reaches everyone. They recommend that the government take a more collective and holistic responsibility for increasing the activity of society. In fact, they recommend legalizing 60 minutes of daily physical activity for all students. They also believe that the school must have competence on physical birth. It concerns the design of both indoor and outdoor areas and the organisation of activities that build basic skills. One example is the knowledge that the firmness and solidity of the skeleton are built up in puberty, and that jumping has a very positive effect on the strengthening of the skeleton. Therefore, all the honors of the National Association for Public Health, which each year in April invites everyone to 4-7. the stage of the hopper train competition. For the Workers' Party, it is important that children get a mix of organized physical activity and free play. However, in order to have the best effect for all children, kindergartens and schools need to have increased competence for physical feeding. When we know that health is the factor that has the greatest impact on social inequality, that physical activity is what affects health most throughout life, that there is a close link between inactivity and the increasing incidence of lifestyle diseases, and that the government in its own government strategy committee for state sports policy enters a new era, led by Poortoft, recommends the lawmaking of one hour's physical activity, why then wait for some experimental communities? Why not dry out having bigger ambitions to give all children a good start and go for a more offensive phase-in of one hour's physical activity already today? I therefore support the proposal tabled by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1277	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1280	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for having resolved this matter safely in the Committee and for good cooperation in order to arrive at a position. This is, as has been mentioned a couple of times, a topic that we have discussed many times in the committee. That's not so nice. Good physical activity is important, and healthy nutrition is important. It's important to all of us, but it might be especially important for children and young people. We see some worrying developments, in particular that more young people sit more quietly and that more people eat unhealthy or eat irregularly. It is also, even for me as a representative of the Right, who is not going to support the proposal the Workers' Party is promoting today, obviously that eating healthy and being in physical activity is also linked to how well you can learn or take information. I think everyone knows that either from school or from work. So it's the way the school's mission is primarily to teach our students the basic skills, as well as teaching the children and the young people for different educational purposes and laying the foundation for the rest of their lives. Some of what the schools tell us every time we talk to them, whether it's principals or teachers or other groups of professionals working at school, is that we can't be everything to everyone. It has not been given that all societal problems can be solved by increasing the number of hours or introducing a new subject or lawmaking a new right into school everyday life. Norway is also a large country with very different schools. We have some very small schools, and we have some very large schools in the big cities. It's not certain that arranging for one hour's physical activity will be as simple in all the schools. In some schools you want a forest right outside the schoolyard, others have the schoolyard in the middle of a city, and there are several thousand students going there. So the proposal involves a gradual introduction of one hour of physical activity at school. And as a little visit to the representative Ruth Grung, who was offensive on behalf of the Workers' Party in this matter: well, it wasn't that we saw anything about this when the Workers' Party was responsible for ruling the country. But more importantly, it's not that you can just suggest this in words, it also costs money. There are no parties I know, at least not the Workers' Party, who have budgeted with the cost of introducing one hour's physical activity. I assume that the Workers' Party will realize that it will be with skilled gym teachers in the long term, and that it will be given time to prepare the training they will receive every day. The cost estimate for such a proposal is SEK 5.6 billion. kr. That again means that this is a priority discussion: is that what you are going to budget for? On the one hand, how can one problemize all of these things, while at the beginning of the article I recognized that I agree that physical activity is important, and that we need to facilitate it more? I believe that – like that government has also presented in its government statement and in cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health and Welfare – we need to work with different ways of getting more physical activity. We have the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity in Bergen, which now coordinates the various measures taken in public schools. Here's a lot of different ways to work, which I think everyone is exciting and no one should be rejected. Nor is it given that the big solution is to grant well up to 6 billion. NOK, then to expand the number of hours, then to hire as many professionals. For example, volunteering can be a very important player to ensure that more children and young people have more physical activity. There is nothing in the way that the local football team or the sports team can get to large-scale and be there and arrange tournaments and competitions for the students. It's also nice for the schools to say clearly from the fact that it's not allowed to be in the spare minutes, you're supposed to be out, and it's supposed to be teachers who are out there looking after the students. They can also organize a football game or something else that engages the students. Finally, as the rapporteur also pointed out, there are two different minority proposals. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have – quite correctly – pointed out that they want this to be done within the hour. There's a thought that I think on behalf of the Right can say that we also have far more sympathy for that, that this can be done just within the school everyday life you have. In addition to free minutes, much of the teaching can actually be done in nature or through physical activity in other ways. My point is that this proposal we cannot go for, simply because it is not set of money to implement it, but at the same time there are many ways to organise it. The physical activity and healthy food of children and young people are very closely related to the learning they receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1303	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good cooperation and a good review of the matter. The Progress Party is pleased that this proposal raises the need for more physical activity in school. Gym and physical activity have always been an important part of school life, and extensive research has been carried out over the last few years on the relationship between learning and training, which clearly demonstrates the positive benefits of physical activity in both the short and long term. This is also the reason why the Advance Party has previously promoted its own proposal for physical activity in school. I think it's worth noting that all parties are concerned about securing this, even though we have different paths to the goal. Today is 16 pst. of all Norwegian third classes, according to the Institute for Public Health, overweight and obesity among children and young people are a serious challenge to public health. Physical activity contributes to the promotion of good health and reduces the risk of health problems both in growth and as an adult. We're reaping it in the long term. An overall committee believes that the school is an important venue for action for increased physical activity among children of school age. It seems to be very worrying that health problems related to inactivity and obesity are greatly increasing. Today’s 15-year-olds are more sedentary than the average 70-year-old, and children and young people’s time spent on physical activity is drastically reduced. Test results in the physical exercise profession at school and in the defense show a decrease in the physical performance of children and young people. The relationship between inactivity and poor health is significant, and we actually have to take responsibility for doing something about this development. The government’s political platform considers physical activity to be so important that it is referred to in a separate point. It is said that the government will facilitate the school’s daily physical activity for the students. The Progress Party will also show that a three-year trial is underway in a sample of secondary schools to study the effects of more physical activity and/or body training on, among others. learning and health, and that this experiment will end in 2018, with an interim report in the summer of 2017. The experiment is based on a research survey provided by Norway's sports school in the summer of 2016. For the Progress Party, it is very important to stress the opportunities that schools have today, in ordinary school hours. The Christian People's Party and the Central Party's proposals are, in fact, possible to implement already today in the ordinary school days, but it depends on the flexibility and willingness of the school administration and the participation of the teachers. It's an important factor in increasing physical activity. As I said, many schools are already doing well in physical activity. A very good example of this is the Tastaveden School, which in the fall of 2013 launched a pilot project for all students at the eighth stage: FYSAK, physical activity every day and study time two days a week. To get this done, the step has reorganized its day of school, so that there is an increase in physical activity for everyone in 8:00 p.m. 10 a.m. to 10 a.m. 10.55 a day. It's just before eating, which makes the lust of lunch stronger than it would otherwise be. The results of this experiment are very good: the students are positive, the students are getting new friends, the class environment is getting stronger, the learning outcomes are increasing, and health is getting better. There are even more good examples that there are creative and skilled teachers around School Norway who find good solutions for physical activity, and the Progress Party will work to make the different models of more physical activity more familiar and more widespread. The fact that this is feasible without increasing State expenditure is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1324	In December 1965, almost 51 years ago, Tronder-Avisa wrote that physical birth should no longer be something that was just talked about in the staging room. It was something that was also to be complied with in practice. What Tronder-Avisa wrote about then was that Stortinget got its own training room by putting exercise equipment in the shelters at the bottom of the basement. There were perhaps some who felt that they were sitting a little too much still in everyday life, and perhaps there were some who saw that one too passive and still lifestyle was not quite lucky neither for body nor soul. But it probably varies a little bit to what extent the staggering representatives actually use the great training opportunities that we have here in the house. But there's one thing that hasn't changed, and that's that we're still talking about the meaning of physical birth here in the staging room. And if there's one thing we've talked about many times in the last few years, it's that children are too little active, and that it's important to facilitate more physical activity in school. Several of the parties have switched to suggesting more physical activity in school, and one representative after another has gone up here on the pulpit to tell me how important it is that the kids move enough while they're at school. But although everyone thinks it's awfully important, we never manage to have a majority in the Stortinge to facilitate at least one hour of physical activity at school for all children, every day. We keep talking about it, but we keep choosing not to do anything about it. It is a problem that children in Norway, with the exception of the youngest, are underactive. It has consequences. It has consequences for health and well-being, and there is good reason to believe that it also has consequences for children's learning. I think there's a lot of people who want to recognize that if you're a little bit more active and use your body a little bit, it has an effect on both mood and concentration. I don't think that's just for politicians with long meeting days. This also applies to schoolchildren with long school days. And since the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes of SV is no longer in the committee, I almost get to say what he always used to say in these debates, that the brain is not alone, the head and body are connected. But it's not an extra gym class every day we need. What we need is simply an awareness in school that you can make sure that the students get a little touch and used the body during the school day. There is now a need for children to spend more time in school than ever before. And we know it's going to work. In Drammen, the City Council has already introduced one hour of daily physical activity for all school students, and the experience is good. Last year I visited Danvik School in Drammen together with Linda Helleland, who is now Minister of Culture, and was able to see how they have managed to integrate physical activity into school life there. Much of the teaching had moved out into the schoolyard. The students had to run from mail to mail to solve math problems. They had vocabularies where they also practiced reading, and they practiced spelling while they jumped rope, letter by letter. The natural science lessons were often shifted into nature. The teachers were a little skeptical at first and wondered if this was going to work in practice. But it has worked, and the results have been so good. According to the teachers, I have talked to, given more obvious and more motivated students. At least there is no doubt that activating the students physically will also have positive health effects in the long term. I hope that the Storting can finally gather about a proposal to ensure schoolchildren more physical activity. The last time the proposal was up, it was the Left that guaranteed the parties a majority against the proposal. I have seen that the representative Iselin Nybø has stated that she is skeptical about expanding the hour because she thinks it is too expensive. I fully agree with that, but that is not necessary either. I therefore hope that this time the Left will support the proposal that the Christian People's Party is promoting together with the Center Party, to introduce one hour of physical activity every day, within today's hour. With that, I take up the proposal that the Christian People's Party is behind with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1341	The representative Anders Tyvand has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1344	The relationship between physical activity and health is well documented. With the exception of the youngest young, the level of physical activity today is alarmingly low. Already between six and nine years of age, the level of activity is reduced. To bet on measures for daily physical activity will pay off. If the inactive and those in insufficient activity today increase their physical activity level to the recommended level, the potential welfare gain in Norway, according to the Health Directorate’s reports, would be equivalent to 239 billion. kr every year. The national objectives for public health work in Norway are that Norway should be among the three best countries in the world with the longest life expectancy, that the population should experience several years of life with good health and well-being and reduced social health differences, and that we should create a society that promotes health throughout the population. The size has also seen the goal of reducing the incidence of lifestyle diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. It is also a global health objective. Increased physical activity is central to achieving these national health targets. This requires a broad approach and efforts across all sectors, involving both private, voluntary and public actors. Today, municipalities have a legal responsibility for public health policy, and mobilisation in municipalities is crucial to raising physical activity locally. The center party then thinks that it is quite natural that a person should use the school as the pre-construction arena. In school, all children and young people, regardless of background and across social dividers. In Norway, both the National Association for Public Health, the Kreftforeningen, the Norwegian Physiotherapeutic Association, the Medical Association and the Norwegian Sports Association have agreed on the requirement to clarify their public health responsibilities. They will have a clear and mandatory measure of an hour's physical activity by day for all pupils at all stages, arranged or hired by competent personnel. The centre party has supported this requirement, and we just put it in the draft representative mentioned in the vote, which was discussed in the Stortinget for approx. Two years ago. At the time, we lack our left-hand votes to get a multiple, and it seems to be on the left-hand side of their votes today as well. The center party believes that the goal of one hour of physical activity in the school can be realized by combining some time from the other theoretical subjects and by making physical activity in other subjects on the schedule, possibly also by a minor change in the school day of the size of 5 minutes, evenly experimenting and experience with just this. in Sogndal in Sogn and Fjordane. There are also examples of this from other municipalities, e.g. in the drama. In the debate here today, I note that the Left refers to the forthcoming programme work. We're also very concerned about that, because the left hand side is the party that can create a multiple for this important health thing. I disagree with what is said that you have to wait for more knowledge. I thought it's almost sad when there's something so obvious that physical activity can make people feel better. That we're going to have more knowledge of that, I don't understand. We know more than enough. We are being strongly encouraged by the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate that the level of physical activity is too low, and it is clear that one hour of physical activity in the school will have great effect. To the representative from the Right who talks about money: I agree that when you propose this, one must also have funding. For this reason, in our proposal, we have said that this will happen within today's frame-hours. We will vote subsidiaryly for the Workers' Party and SV's proposal during the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1361	Firstly, I would like to thank the proposers for promoting this. There have been a number of rounds during this period of different parties proposing more physical activity in school. That's what SV has done. This time, health policy-makers are behind the proposal, and it's not so strange when we know what a standstill and a lack of movement among children and young people has to say for public health. It is absolutely vital that children and young people move more. It is also crucial that children and young people eat healthy food to facilitate good public health in the future. In this way, this can be an incredibly valuable investment in future public health and can save society from excessive costs for repair later in the lives of these children. So this is a public health proposal. It's also a social cohesion proposal, because we know that just movement and healthy diet are something that is socially very divided in our society, which, once again, contributes to the very socially distorted statistics of our country's life expectancy. SV wants to expand the number of hours in primary school and thus make room for, among other things. physical activity. It's part of our all-day school vision. We believe it is high time to take some of the time that is today, among other things. the school leisure system, and contribute it to a free, good and inclusive school day for all children. Then there will be room for physical activity throughout the school. I'm concerned that we don't underestimate the learning dimension of physical activity. This time it has been promoted primarily as a health proposal, but it could as well have been promoted as a knowledge proposal. Earlier this spring I visited Trudvan's school in Sogndal. Sogndal is the municipality that according to the municipal barometer is best at school throughout the country. One success factor – they say themselves – is that they have integrated physical activity in teaching. They call it no longer physical activity, but active learning. That visit to those schools showed how to use movement to teach kids more math, Norwegian and English. You make food test evenings where the kids through physical activity repeat what they've learned over the hours. It summarises teachers and researchers there as important for children to learn more. It really makes sense, because I think all of us who are regularly close to kids see that if you move, you get better focus. If you're put in a little bit of a new situation, our brain works so that you like to learn more of it than if it's just the same classroom situation all the time. We also know that when mobility can contribute to concentration during a long school day, it can also be part of the answer to a major challenge we have with all the kids — not least the many boys — who are uneasy in Norwegian classrooms and unable to concentrate on education, and who at the other end of the school cycle are often the ones who fall away. A more varied school day is a very important part of the answer to how we're going to make sure that all kids, with all their different assumptions, master the school and manage to finish. We want a school day where this with active learning is integrated, because it will improve the learning effect in school, and it will make sure that more students can learn, based on a recognition that kids learn in different ways. So the right-hand side's attempt to say that this isn't so important, because it has nothing to do with learning, I think is fundamentally wrong and shows again how narrow the knowledge that governs this government and the right-hand side's school policy is. The feather toft committee setting is one of many recommendations we get from experts to do what is the main content of this proposal. The time is ripe for a popular vow of this kind and a learning lift of this kind. But the vote we get today, once again, emphasizes that even though time is ripe, an introduction of more active learning in school will not fall under the bourgeois majority, but we have a golden opportunity to start such a reform of school day if we get a new majority in the election next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1379	I share the concern about developments that show that children and young people in the population are too little in activity and that we need to have early efforts. It is also an important part of the learning environment to facilitate physical activity for the students, to shake and clear your head. That way, it's also important for what students can do in school. So I'm glad you're helping to focus on physical activity in training. But it is also important to remember that it is not that – and more have been in this point – unless the Storting decides, nothing happens. There is a large local room for action in school that can help students become more active and develop good habits, and that very many people use. There are many schools and municipalities that facilitate daily physical activity for the students, perhaps especially at the children's and middle classes. They take advantage of the space of action they have, to spend time, they integrate physical activity into other subjects, they take advantage of mid-hours, free minutes and outdoor days, and they facilitate an active school path. That's good, it has to go on, it should be even more of it, and there are experiences that should benefit more schools. There is also a good signal to local politicians that one does not have to wait for the Stortinge to adopt one hour of physical activity in school every day for all class steps. You could start by saying, what can we do here? The daily amount of mandatory time for exercise and physical activity is on average 2,1 hours per week throughout childhood and 2 hours per week during childhood. Going for an hourly extension to physical activity requires a thorough review and evaluation of different implementation solutions, in the shorter and longer term, and it costs a lot of money to expand the number of hours. For example, one new week of physical activity at the youth level is estimated at about 200 million. kr where there is a teacher’s salary, including compensation for pre-work and post-work, or alternatively about 80 million. kr if you are not going to have any compensation for pre-work and post-work, i.e. you are assuming that no planning is needed in advance or after-assessment. If we talk about one hour of physical activity every day for all students at all stages, we get a total cost of about 2.4 billion. kr, without compensation for pre-work and post-work. Proposals with such major implications require the question to be addressed. The knowledge centre has been responsible for developing a knowledge overview of physical activity in school, which will soon be published. The interim report reveals the need for several randomised, controlled trials that can investigate the impact of physical activity on learning outcomes and the learning environment. But once again, you don't have to wait for this to take advantage of the possibilities that are there today for physical activity in school, as many municipalities and schools do. We're going to start a test at a selection of colleges to study the impact of more physical activity and/or more exercise on physical and mental health, the learning environment and learning. It will give us a little more solid knowledge of how this can affect learning. The test shall be started during the autumn and shall be designed to study the effect of more physical activity and more exercise on learning, physical health, mental health and the learning environment. It's gonna be over three years. Young school students will have about four hours of physical activity and body training for a week. The pilot schools shall be tested during the period from the fall holiday 2016 to the winter holiday 2017 and thereafter a randomised, controlled study in the 2017/2018 school year. There may be an important basis for assessing further work on both the physical exercise and physical activity at school. But back to what's my main point: there are great local opportunities today to have more physical activity in school. Everyone understands and everyone is that children and young people need to move more, and today's school day can, with some good local work, facilitate much more physical activity, for example. by using the hours available to combine physical activity with good education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1399	We have rarely experienced such unison agreement as to how important physical activity is. The councils were so much involved, but also all representatives have described trials in their local counties and municipalities, where they either interact with sport or take it into school, outside school, on the school road, etc. There's impatience out there. There is a great deal of interest in focusing on physical activity, but at the same time there are considerable differences between schools. What is desired and the intention of the Workers' Party's proposal is a systematic knowledge-based policy, which is promised to all pupils. The question is whether the Council agrees with the Asheim representative’s comment that such phase-in costs 6 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1404	Henrik Asheim's number is taken from the Department of Knowledge. But here too, you can choose what kind of arrangements you want. I used an example that if it's going to be no afterwork, but one hour at every class step of the week, it'll be about 2.5 billion. kr. Obviously, you can choose a model where you don't use skilled people, so you don't use teachers, you don't use teachers, you don't use others, and you don't have any pre- and post-work, of course it'll be cheaper. You can also choose a model that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party sketches, where you have to put one hour of physical activity, but say it's going to happen within the hour. I sympathise with the proposal, but I think it's a little bit unnecessary detailing, simply because the school has the opportunity today to use a math class, make it active and exciting and have physical activity in that hour, and do it in a way that makes the students use both the body and the head.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1413	Both of the suggestions we're going to vote on today say that the government is going to facilitate physical activity in school. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party go a little further and say it has to happen within today's hour. We're open to different ways of organizing this. A document presented this morning says: ‘The government will facilitate schools to ensure daily physical activity for students. The school embraces all children and young people and can therefore give all pupils the possibility of physical activity through appropriate training.’ This is the youth health plan of the government. Here, these state councils under ‘Actions’ on page 23: ‘The government will facilitate the day-to-day physical activity of the school for the pupils.’ Is it so that this, according to the representative Asheim, costs $6 billion? kr., or can the Council of State say, as implicit in the Workers' Party's proposal, that it is possible to do so in different ways? Why won't he agree to adopt it in the staging room, for which he joined an action plan a few hours ago? Is it the case that this action plan has expired, only three hours afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1430	It is more likely that it is unnecessary to adopt something in the Storting three hours later when it appears in an action plan. As the representative knows very well, the normal purpose of adopting something in Stortinget is to get the government to do so. Today, when the government has presented an action plan where this is exactly what it says, it is an unnecessary decision. To say a little bit about the price tag, it really depends on what you want. If you want to introduce new hours to physical activity, it's going to cost you money. Several hours cost money. So you have to make the choice: should this be unskilled or skilled, do you have to pay your teacher's salary, or do you have to pay another kind of salary? Is it necessary to have pre- and post-work related to this, or not? Now, we're developing a better knowledge base, but the most important thing we can do in the short term is to make even better sense what a great deal of space there is. I'm sure all the representatives in this room have been to schools that have a lot of physical activity in school everyday. They're not breaking the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1437	This is very alarming, because the Council of State is now saying that the Right does not vote in favour of the proposal because this is already in progress. It's very nice, I think. If the Council of State stands for it, it is natural for us who are proposers, to draw the proposal and say that we think it is great that the government is now implementing what we are saying. I hope that it is not the word ‘gradual’ in our proposal that destroys the zeal of the Council of State after adopting this in the Grand Duchy. I am also glad that he says that it does not need to be carried out as an extra gym. It's not here. If we wanted an extra class, we would have written it. There may be disagreement between the SV and the Workers' Party about this with all day school and how to do it, but we are open to many different organisations to get to physical activity. When the government itself says that the government “should facilitate”, it means that you should not sit and wait for the school owners and the schools themselves to do this, but that you should actually take care of daily physical activity. If one hour is too much, we can start with half an hour or three quarters. It is in the word ‘gradual’. If the Council of State again confirms that it is this government to introduce, it is brilliant news for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1444	The wording of the health plan presented today is the same as that stated in the Government Declaration: ‘The government will facilitate more physical activity at school.’ It also means that we want to facilitate that all schools have more physical activity. What is stated in the Labour Party's proposal is something else. It says to have a gradual introduction and ‘measures of one hour of daily physical activity for all pupils, in all parts of the training’. It can't be understood in any other way than that you want new school hours. If you don't want new school hours, it's nice that you don't vote for the Christian People's Party and the Central Party's proposal, which says this is going to happen within today's school tidal. It should have been suggested. My point is very simple that if you're going to have new school hours, it costs money. If you're going to have skilled teachers, it's gonna cost you money. If you don't want to, it's a very honest thing, but then you have to be clear on the content of what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1458	What we have today is the physical exercise for everyone. It is also important to ensure physical activity for students. Then there's been a discussion about the physical exercise, because it's too performance-oriented, and it should be made a change. I've visited a health center where they had a group of girls who had dropped out of their body practice. I never forget that, I didn't think it could happen. So we know, at least there's my experience, that there's still too much achievement in the gym despite the fact that there are some other leaders. I would like to hear from the Council of State what he wants to do to ensure that all schools have a physical exercise that ensures mobility and training in a healthy physical activity, rather than performance in ball games, outdoor activities, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1465	I'm pretty sure I don't understand the question. If the question is how to ensure that all schools have physical activity — not physical activity, but physical exercise, then it is mandatory. You're going to have the physical exercise, it's hours allocated to it, and you're going to have to have that. To be completely honest, I do not fully understand the issue of the content of the subject. Body training has a curriculum with competence objectives like any other subject. That it is performance-oriented – it will be. Just as the goal in mathematics is to raise the math skills of students, body training is not a subject where you're just going to experience joy. You have to experience the pleasure of mathematics and the pleasure of using your body, but you also have to have an assessment in the end. How good, for example. are in various sports activities, will play. The body exercise subject is quite unique. As far as I know, it is the only subject in which efforts are also included in the assessment. It does it especially compared to all other subjects in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1472	The University of Sogn and Fjordane is probably a high school that the Council of State has been thinking about lately. Among other things, there are: have had quite large and extensive surveys of children in school in terms of physical activity. I understand that what's about learning outcomes in terms of increased physical activity, there's some uncertainty around, but there's probably not so many who doubt that physical activity is good in itself. I really have two questions for the Council of State. After this attempt in Sogn and Fjordane, which have been mentioned by several, I have understood that many schools want to continue with the way they work, because they feel it is positive for the students. How can we spread this so that it seems natural for other schools to use these methods as well? That's the one question. The second question is, what are the government's expectations of this about learning outcomes, physical activity and its outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1482	We can spread it in at least two ways. In general, the Education Directorate is involved in disseminating good practice in schools. We have also established the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity, which is tasked with disseminating good examples in schools. What's important -- this is a little bit of spicy, maybe -- is that it's a full opportunity, and something you should use in today's school, saying that in this math class, we're taking math lessons outdoors, and then we're adding up to physical activity in combination with math education. What you won't be able to do is say you drop the math class and you just have physical activity. But to put it this way, Norwegian teachers are so well equipped that that combination they do perfectly well. It is also the case that — it is difficult to try to be a researcher — the contribution to learning about physical activity is that you get better concentration, can work better, get your head clear. The fact that you're in good physical form or good physical form also makes you learn better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1491	I feel that there is a need for some clarification after this change of lines, because here the Council of State began very offensively to say that the proposal that had been promoted was hardly necessary because it now stood so offensive things in the government's new plan. But then I feel that it ended up at a level where you can't expect anything, because the Council of State should at least not be involved in spending money on something that could facilitate more physical activity. Can the Council of States tell us what it means to facilitate more physical activity? Money should not be used, it has been there since 2013, nothing has happened. Is it an unreasonable interpretation to see it as the organization of the Council of State is to say what he has said today, that the municipalities can do it if they want to, but that something active to get more of this from this government is not something you can expect?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1496	I don't think the confusion arose with my answers, but with the question from the representative Giske, who suggested that if what we presented in the Youth Health Communication was about physical activity and facilitating it, you could draw the proposal. I tried to say that here are two different suggestions. The proposal on the table is about several hours of physical activity. I have understood that in my entire answer, which is several school hours. If you don't want to spend money over several hours at school, there's going to be a discussion about leisure time and the kind of things that can be important and right, there's a lot we can do there, but not the proposal it's about. So we do a lot. I have e.g. that resource centre, it is important – competence centre, dissemination of good practice. I think getting a better understanding of the legislation is important. We are now also launching a major research project, which is just about looking at the learning effect of physical activity in different disciplines. Other measures may also occur in the cooling water. But what we haven't said yes to now, several school hours are earmarked for physical activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1503	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1508	That it is possible to read the proposal that is now on the table, that the frame hour should be increased, and that it should be introduced for several hours, that is a mystery to me. But now leave it. I'm sure they'll comment on it later. I would also like to remind the representative Asheim that the red-green government introduced two hours of physical activity for five to seven weeks. steps. Physical activity and health were introduced as an electoral subject at the youth level, and the Workers' Party has programmed daily physical activity in its current programme. For the Workers' Party, this is an important matter. The main reasons for this have been well explained by the representative Grung. Let me just underline: physical activity leads to better learning, and better learning leads to less non-response. It's not just "probably", the way the Left is inside. This is very good research, as has been stressed by many, and as the Council of State has now confirmed. We can read in the setting that this matter has been dealt with in Stortinget on several occasions, and it is interesting to read previous suggestions, settings, comments and debates. In this respect, it could have been tempting to refer to the comments of the Progress Party as the big message is on the right track. Quality and diversity in joint schools were addressed. I'm going to leave it, but I can remind you that they then suggested introducing one hour of physical activity every day for primary school students. And in the debate in 2013, the representative of the Progress Party from this pulpit asked why the government did not vote in favour of that proposal: ‘It is either because the government actually does not want more physical activity, or because the proposal comes from the Progress Party.’ The representative further said that it was frightening that the government opposed the proposal: ‘It is frightening because it clearly shows that the government has no scruples in having beautiful promises to the voters, but does not implement it when it comes to the play. It's scary because you actively choose to put ideology ahead of practice, that they set ideological positions and ride the headlines rather than actually taking measures that are the best for the students. It is frightening because children’s learning and well-being in school are made less important than winning political favor for the voters.’ And finally, to underline it all, it was said: ‘For us in the Progress Party, students are more important than political strategy and games. For us, learning is more important than ideology." This is just a small extract of the force ointments that came from the Progress Party at that time. That is why it must be allowed to ask the Progress Party today: why are they now voting against the proposals? According to the party's own rhetoric, I have to ask if learning is no longer important to them. Today they have even two possibilities: they can vote in favour of a gradual introduction of physical activity, or they can vote for the introduction of one hour each day within the limits of today’s hours. Now that they obviously don't want to do that, it's not a believer – in this area either. One thing is what they say – as the representative Thorsen said earlier today – something quite different is what they are actually doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1539	Everyone is responsible for their own health, but everyone is also responsible for everyone's health. It was a commonly used heading of the red-green government, and especially of Jonas Gahr Støre when he, as Minister of Health, presented the public health message «Good Health – Common Responsibility». The promise that Jonas just took for public health work drew up some lines of health policy that the Workers' Party wants to continue. The good habits must be learned early, it is said. But the young are born with good habits. When we see children in their two-three-four-year-old age, we see that they are active. We have to let the six-year-olds stay active, but also make sure that the nine-year-olds, the fifteen-year-olds and the eighteen-year-olds can be the same. We must take care of and continue the joy of the six-year-old to be active. Therefore, the Workers' Party will have one hour of physical activity in school. As many have experienced, several schools in Norway have already shown that it is possible to obtain such an activity every day, without being a major contributor to the school budget. Some schools, for example, have have been given more activity through good practical organisation of outpatient schools in different disciplines, longer free minutes of activity in the middle of the day or collaboration with local sports teams — such as in my home municipality, where we have a sports team running a sports SFO. But not everyone is so lucky that they live in my hometown. What is so serious is that bad health is inherited. Where you live, what education you take and what the family economy has, affects the risk of developing poor health. Which family we're born into is very likely to affect our health for the rest of our lives. The Community therefore has a responsibility to give everyone a good start. We can counteract health inequalities by using the arenas where children meet, regardless of where they come from. We're going to do that, because bad health is not going to inherit. It's unacceptable. Investing in children's health and activities is perhaps some of the trick we as a society can spend money on. That's why the Workers' Party let in 100 million. kr in its alternative budget for a pilot scheme for municipalities wishing to try this out, and therefore we are now promoting proposals for one hour of physical activity at school for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1550	It is beginning to understand how this Council of State is constantly facing problems with everyone he meets on his way – whether it is in the sector or in the Stortinget – because now he is standing here and saying that it is not possible to read the proposal from the Workers' Party and the SV in any other way than that it means one extra school hour a day. Well, in the comments on page 2, the majority of the committee says that there is to be ‘accommodating physical activity’ and ‘accommodating different models of organisation’. It also states that ‘there are no significant increases in costs’. But not enough with that, in the second proposal to which the Council of State refers, from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, what does it say? Yes, it says: ‘which ensures students at least one hour of physical activity every day’. [[...]] It shall take place within the framework of today's frame metal. If the Council of State interpretation of the words ‘one hour’s physical activity every day’ means to take from the hour, it must mean that the Central Party and the Christian People’s Party will then take from today’s ram ti metal – from mathematics, Norwegian or social sciences – and give to gym. I have not heard either Tyvand or others say anything about this. So this is outrageous. And that's the way to meet the environment that makes the Council of State constantly get into trouble. Then we're going to work out what's in the government's action plan. It says: ‘The government will facilitate the day-to-day physical activity of schools for students.’ It's true that there aren't minutes, either 45 or 60, but we have to assume that it might be at least 20 or 25, so you can get sweaty. It must mean taking half an hour of school every day, according to the definition of the Red Ice Age. Of course it's not like that, this is just nonsense. There are many examples around Norway of one hour’s physical activity without increasing the number of hours without significantly increasing costs. If the Minister of Knowledge does not know about these, he should intervene as soon as possible. The difference in what the government says in its action plan this morning is that you don't say exactly how many minutes. It would have been nice to get from the Minister of Knowledge what the government means by ‘daily physical activity’, whether it’s enough with 5 minutes of head-shoulder-knee-and-toe, or whether there’s more to it, that the word ‘gradual’ is not – as we have – and not ‘in all parts of the training’. But you have to believe that the ‘eleven’, as it says in the government’s action plan, means all students and not some students. I think that the Council of State should elaborate on what is contained in this action plan, in that all the students should be guaranteed ‘daily physical activity’. And how much does this project cost from the government – launched this morning with brawl and brawl, but left today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1570	I couldn't help but take the word since the representative Sønsterud spanked most of his speaking time to comment on posts that I've held earlier in this room about physical activity. It was very nice to be noticed. But if Sønsterud had looked at other posts in this room, she had seen that the representative Thorsen has explained why the Progress Party has turned around in this matter. This is because more and more schools in Norway are introducing this. Our local politicians around the municipality of Norway make sure that this is implemented – without entailing excessive extra costs. What surprises me more is that when the Workers' Party sat down and ruled for eight years and had a majority in government, physical activity had no significance whatsoever. With this government, we have introduced different offers to make schools more familiar with how to introduce physical activity, and even more so, for which the Council of State was involved. So I have to say I'm a little bit more surprised that it's not a little bit more constructive, what's coming. What I also pointed out in my speech was that for the Progress Party, it is important to stress the possibility that the schools today have to seize this on their own, without we, here at Stortinget, override anything, that they should facilitate this in their own way – what is most appropriate from which part of the country they live, and from other conditions that are relevant – in order to have one hour's physical activity introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1583	It is the Workers' Party and the SV that are behind a joint proposal – finally. SV has said what they mean by this. SV wants an extension to full-time school. They want longer school days, they want to pay for more school hours. Mr Ergo is voting in favour of this proposal. It might contribute to a little less confusion if the Workers' Party had taken a clear position on this matter, if they had said clearly what they wanted. By today's date, if I take a little step back, this can be understood as anything from wanting a new school class – gym, with teacher, without teacher, fore and afterwork; nothing is clear about it – to just wanting to encourage the schools to have physical activity, and that the goal is to be one hour a day. It's a pretty big canvas to bleach, and there's pretty big differences at the different extremes. But if it's the case that the Workers' Party has decided that they don't want to introduce more school hours into physical activity, it could be very good to know about it, to clarify it – because then we're much more agreeable than it might look like in this case. Then everyone agrees that we shouldn't introduce more school hours to increased physical activity, at least not in this period, and then we can start discussing even more how we can build up during the important work to get schools to facilitate physical activity, as many schools do today. But it requires that you be able to take a clear stand and fill the suggestions you are making, with content that is possible for more than members of your own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1592	I just feel the need to clarify what is included in the proposal Christian People's Party, because I interpreted the representative Guessing there that he thought it had to be interpreted in that way that we want to take an hour from other subjects and add it to gym. That's not what we've been saying. On the contrary, in my main post I was clear that we do not need an hour extra gym. That's not what we want. We want to facilitate more physical activity within the hour that is, but also within the hour distribution we have today. I also pointed out to Drammen, where you have done very well with this by integrating more physical activity into Norwegian, math, etc. Then I just have to comment on the turnaround of the Progress Party in this case. I have some problems understanding Bente Thorsen's explanation and reasoning about why they've turned around. Three years ago, this was an important matter for the Progress Party. Now they're opposed, and the reason is that there are some schools that have been nice and implemented this already. I think that's a strange argument. For me, it's that in some places you've introduced it and managed to do it -- see it goes, and that it gives results -- on the contrary, it's just a motivation to stand even harder on to get more physical activity for all students, not just the students in the municipalities that have now been the predecessor municipalities. I also have to say that I would like to have a clearer response from the Council of State on what the government actually wants to do, but I'm afraid we just have to realize that we have once again had a debate in Stortinge on physical activity where we go up, all men, and tell you that this is important – and then the majority of proposals vote down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1602	I want to make the same clarification as the representative of the Christian People's Party of the proposal behind it. I said in my article that we imagine a variant of what an already tried in Sogn and Fjordane, where one might take 5 minutes from the other theory subjects and maybe expand the school day a little, between 5 and 15 minutes, and then they get this without introducing a clock hour or expanding the frame hour. This will also cost some money, it may cost a little bit in equipment, but it will not cost the many billions that it has said. However, when we are going to vote subsidiaryly for the Workers' Party's proposal, it is because it is not explicitly stated in the proposal that an increase in the frame-hour rate is the equivalent of the vote that was two years ago when the Senter Party had a similar proposal. So there's going to be a debate about what the government has now said in the youth health strategy. I didn't notice it very well, because that's exactly what the government said on the government platform. The first time, at least in my time, this was in the formulation of an hour, was in the context of the public health message that came from the red-green government. It was not part of the public health report, but it was part of the Committee's comments. It says in a plural comment from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party that it ‘you have to consider how the school day can be organised to ensure that students have at least one hour of physical activity each day’. This was repeated in the NCD strategy, that is, a strategy to prevent lifestyle diseases, with which Jonas Gahr Støre came, that was exactly the same formulation. Then there was a government change. Then came the government platform, and then we got the formulation that has been repeated today, that one should secure daily physical activity. I've said before that when we got a new government, we also got a much lower level and a much lower measure of physical activity – the majority of the Stortinget population went away from the one-hour target, which, after all, had been put down in public health reports and in the strategy. When the new government came up with the new public health report, this goal was gone, and it is now repeated in the youth health strategy. What is hoped is that after all, there is a multiple on the Storting for an hour's physical activity – but one is not allowed to vote for it. But that's what I hope you'll finally get.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1616	In the name of justice, it was actually not the representative Thorsen I quoted in my previous post, it was Hanekamhaug. Just so we've cleaned it up. Then the representative says Thorsen that the red-green government didn't do anything in eight years for physical activity. Then I just remember, as I did in my previous post, that the red-green government introduced two hours a week with physical activity of 5–7. the stage, physical activity and health were introduced as an electoral subject at the youth level, and the Workers' Party, in its programme for the current period, has programmed daily physical activity and has made proposals in the Storting in line with that during that period. Otherwise, I agree with Mr Tyvand's representative on the turnaround of the Advance Party, and I find the argument they are now using, very strange. The representative of Thorsen would like to go over and over again and try to explain why they're doing what they're doing, but it's not going to be more credible for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1625	I am pleased with the article from Tyvand, because he said what I thought he said, namely that interpreting «one hour of physical activity every day» so that it must be a school hour, is wrong, both in terms of the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, and in terms of the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV. But Røe Isaksen has the creative interpretation that “one hour’s physical activity” according to SV and the Workers’ Party’s proposal must mean an extra school hour, while, according to the proposal of the Center Party and the Christian People’s Party, it must not mean it. So we heard here that there's a little bit different view of this, that the center party is actually open to take a little bit from some theory hours and try to get them more practical, more physical. The Christian People's Party is probably more skeptical to take from that hour, as Tyvand said. This is also the case between the Working Party and SV, that SV is probably more open to add an extra hour. So an overall committee says that: ‘There are different models of organisation. The Committee notes that several schools in Norway have shown that it is fully possible to achieve physical activity every day without entailing significant increases in costs.’ So it's in the majority position, which the Red Isaac could have taken the trouble to read, if he took the time to read it. We know what the Christian People's Party thinks, they have explained their own. We know what the Center Party means, they've explained their own. We know what SV means. And the Workers' Party is open to most solutions; it's not so that it has to be an extra gym class. But what remains, those that we don't know what they mean, are the government parties. We knew what was meant before, and they might still mean it, but not here in the hall. While Røe Isaksen took the floor again in the debate — after several questions about what lies in this government project of ensuring physical activity for all students in schools — without saying a single word about what the government is going to do to get physical activity in schools every day. So I think during this debate the Council of State should tell us: what does it mean when the government says in its action plan and government statement that you should have physical activity at school every day? If it means several hours, it means gym lessons, that means that it's to be taken from other subjects, that means that it's to be volunteered – what does that mean? The sooner the Council of State discovers that this is the national assembly of the country, where, as the Council of State, he explains the government's policy, and not the National Council of Young Rights, the better and more constructive these debates become. Again, the few people here believe that there must be a gym class every day to get one hour of physical activity. We show that there are different models. Governments should be involved in those models. But the Council of State must also come to the pulpit and say what is the government itself believes that there should be physical activity for the students every day. If it's not everyone – then who? If it is not at all stages – which? And if not as hours – how then?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1647	The representative Bente Thorsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1650	Sønderud is still equally concerned with the Progress Party, and that's very good. With regard to Tyvand, I can reassure him that the Progress Party has not at all turned around in this matter, and I expect Tyvand to listen to what is said in the posts in this Chamber. Then he had it with him. With regard to the proposal the Progress Party had before, it was actually extending the school day by one hour, which was a formidable cost, and we see that that money can be spent in a much better way for the students, among other things. on continuing training for teachers. We also see that today there are an incredible number of schools that are doing this by themselves. Tyvand referred to the Drammen municipality, where this with physical activity is very well developed. It is also important for the Progress Party that each municipality has to have the opportunity to do this on its own, and that each school has to make sure that it has its own arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1661	I get to repeat some of what I've said before: the government doesn't go in for one school hour, new hours, hour-long expansion in this period of physical activity. So it's absolutely right that if you look at how to do it if you want more hours at school, you can do it in different ways. That's what the Storting asked us, or at least it's natural that we're commenting on it, and that's a voltage of about 6 billion. kr to the lowest, between 1 and 2 billion. kr. This means that when we're going to facilitate more physical activity in school, we're going to do it the same way we do today, that is, through the use of school hours, the schools combine subjects and physical activity, or by reorganizing the school day to give them longer periods of time, for example. – as I said already in my introduction post – putting together free minutes, free time and that kind of thing to have physical activity there. So let's try carrots first. We're going to use the National Centre of Competence to work on food, health and physical activity at school. These include: Disperse good examples. We have launched a large research project that is a pure efficacy study, which is to say something about physical activity and how it affects the learning environment. Then there have been different interpretations from different parties of how to understand the suggestions they're in, and then it might be nice to gather about what everyone's agreed on, namely that there's a chance today to get more physical activity on school day. It's not possible, as I said, to say that we're dropping mathematics for just having physical activity, but it's possible to learn from, get inspired by and use all the schools that get this done, and all the municipalities that get this, that say today we're moving math education outdoors, and then we have both math education and physical activity for the students. Finally, it is quite correct, as was pointed out here, that the previous government introduced two new school hours of physical activity at the intermediate stage, and it “borrowed” well to an interpretation that when it was in the proposal about one hour of daily physical activity, there was an effort from the Workers’ Party and the Swedish Labour Party to build on what they had done in the previous growing-up period. If that was misunderstood, I just have to regret it, but it was at least an honest interpretation based on what the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1674	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1677	The representative Thorsen was up and reminded us of the proposal they made in 2013, and I can refer to that, because it sounds like: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals from the autumn of 2014 to introduce one hour of physical activity each day for primary school students, with a corresponding increase in the frame-hour.’ So Thorsen argues that they are voting against today, that it was not equivalent to what the Progress Party had that time. That must mean that if this proposal had been promoted today, the Progress Party would therefore have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1687	I think the last post to the council was of far higher quality than the previous ones, and it was very clarifying, because he describes very well how it is quite possible to get to physical activity at school every day. I notice that he misunderstands ‘one hour’ of physical activity’ in the proposal from the SV and the Workers' Party, but believes that a completely different interpretation is used as the basis for the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. It gets the Christian People's Party and the Center Party take as a compliment, but it's not a very constructive way to find broad solutions. The only thing we didn't get the answer to is the volume, but I guess now it's really just one hour that's the intersecting point between what the government wants to introduce, and what's now at the root of the hall. I note, however, that there is now – yes, there must be – unanimity here in the Chamber to facilitate the physical activity of the students every day, and we have to say that, on the part of the proposers, is half a victory, at least, and a long step forward if we can get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1694	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1708	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1715	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for constructive and good cooperation in dealing with this proposition in the context of the revised state budget. In this proposition, the government presents various issues in road, aviation and rail transport. The measures being promoted are important, and I am pleased that we can now participate in and implement many of these actions. The Proposition covers the separation of Svalbard airport for aviation purposes; for road purposes, it opens up the extension of the collection of local funding grants on fuel in Tromsøpakset 3, the allocation of E18 Varoddbrua in West Agder, the continuation of E 39 Rogfast, the merger of Norwegian Road Museum and Norwegian Vehicle History Museum and the organisation of Road Safety. Furthermore, the toll collection on Rv ends. 23 Oslofland compound. Special transport measures include the organisation of travel planning and electronic ticketing tasks. For rail purposes, the ERTMS project is taken up, reduced tariffs for public travellers outside tariff cooperation and status in the work on rail reform. Request Decisions 52, 53, 54 and 80 are also followed up. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the Ministry is following up the work on environmental requirements in the public sector to ensure that new investment in the sector is made sustainable. I would also like to comment on some of the issues raised in the proposition. As mentioned above, we are now further committed to ensuring the progress and development of several important road projects in Norway. Furthermore, we agree that the toll collection on Rv is now completed. 23 Oslofland compound. The project has been disbursed, and that a while ago. There is no longer any basis for maintaining the collection. Having said that, I record the concerns of several local politicians who are concerned about a potentially increased traffic volume, and thus a risk of an increase in the number of accidents in the tunnel. I share this concern, and I am pleased that the Committee, together, agrees to return to action if this is a challenge. I am also pleased with the clarification that this must be done in cooperation with neighbouring municipalities that have to deal with these potential challenges. Furthermore, I am pleased that we are now getting a clear start on the process of merging Norwegian Vehicle History Museum and Norwegian Road Museum. By doing this, we ensure that we take care of important Norwegian history and make it even more accessible to the public. It's important. I would also like to comment on some of the important projects mentioned for railway purposes and specific transport measures. The size today helps to ensure that we finally get on with the ERTMS project. The proposition suggests that we grant 26 billion. kr to this project. This is a historic initiative – that we finally have a government and now a big deal that ensures that we are going to put new signalling systems in place on the railway. Many years with just a look at the aftermath are now turned into action and results. In connection with this, I have to comment on the establishment of the Route Bank AS and 20 pst. discount on period tickets for NSB outside tariff cooperation. We are now getting a company that is going to ensure a uniform ticketing system within the different collective solutions we have, so that through this we create a much simpler travel everyday and continue to create good incentives for collective use. Furthermore, this is reinforced by the fact that we now also give discounts to commuters who live on the outskirts of our big cities. It has been relatively expensive in the past, and I am now delighted that we can have a carrot to get more people to choose public transport. The above-mentioned issues combined with the progress of the rail reform, which is also addressed in the case, mean that we are now on the way to a much stronger rail service. The NSB recently launched very good results and high traffic growth. This is very happy and shows that the bet produces results. Now we're reinforcing this. Finally, I would just like to mention that I have registered some criticism in the comments of the Central Party and the Labour Party on some of the above issues. I assume that they will convey this in the debate itself, and I look forward to a constructive debate. Finally, I would recommend the proposal the committee promotes as IV, where we ask the government to come back to the Storting with an assessment of what it will mean for the overall collective offer if the tariff difference between the NSB and the collective societies is harmonised.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1749	As a general rule, the Transport and Communications Committee has been given the so-called joint proposal for consideration at this time of the year. It may not sound so exciting - but it's wrong. The government here presents a number of important and sometimes important issues for the Storting. This may particularly apply to the setting of a cost framework for one of Norway's largest investment projects over the next 15 years, the development of the new rail signalling system, ERTMS. However, the proposition is primarily a clear reminder of how the government works and what the government is struggling with. Firstly, several of the issues in this proposition show that we have a government that lacks action and implementation. In the past, it has been said that a desire to further the ERTMS project has been expressed. There's little trace of the staging proposition, rather the opposite. And even worse: Things have obviously taken so long that we can now eliminate the possibility of installing ERTMS directly on Follobanen and on the new railway projects in Bergen. And when you read how the government is dealing with the crossing of Oslofjord, it's probably just the consulting industry that rubs its hands. A day-to-day matter of the strongly razed section of the Arna–Voss can be mentioned in the same letter. While the Stoltenberg government started the arrangement that was supposed to lay the foundation for choosing the trajectory on this route, today's regime spent more than a year discussing what was, of course, for most of us. Secondly, things are becoming more expensive and expensive in the transport sector. It gives this proposition clear samples. The ERTMS project governance framework is now 23.4 billion. kr, against an estimate of 15-20 billion. kr. In the case of the route of experience on the Eastfold route, costs are also increased here. Varoddbrua is now 880 million. NOK 750 million. kr in the Swedish Road Authority’s action programme. Today, we also have a couple of toll propositions to treat, and the same story is repeated there. Third, the government follows a track about splitting up and creating new devices. The revised budget refers to the creation of three companies and, in the aggregate, we hear about the separation of a new subsidiary in Avinor. A few weeks ago, there was a warning about a private parking control. I'm not going to chat with the last one, but I think it's a little special that new supervision is created under a State Council from the Progress Party. And especially the reorganisation of the railway sector shows bad political craftsmanship, when it becomes clear that the government is proposing to sign the first traffic package only days before the roll-out elections in 2017. Finally, I would like to bring up the matter of toll winding up on Rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Outside, the Minister of Transport has sold this as a cause of joy for the motorists. And yes, in isolation, it's fine for the cars that now don't pay tolls from August. We just have to make sure that the concerns of the municipality of Buskerud when traffic increases in the tunnel are taken seriously. The case spokesperson was also involved, and that's what we're gathering. I'm very happy that everyone supports it. However, even if the Council of State is trying to present this as a good case, it is also about the government not being able to obtain a decision-making basis before the deadline that the Stortinget has seen. It's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1768	The government has put forward a joint proposal on some transport issues. There are important issues even though they vary in both cost and scale. The rapporteur has now made a good statement in his statement, and I have therefore chosen to comment on a range of issues. There are two proposals for any extension of the advance collection of tolls. This applies to E39 Rogfast and Rv. 23 Oslofland compound. In the first case, it is a new project which has been authorised to collect tolls in the ferry link Mortavika-Arsvågen. The funds were to be used for planning and design up to 3 years before any decision on construction. Work on KS2 started but not finished. It is therefore necessary to extend the period of prior recovery. The right-hand side supports this. Pre-recovery provides reduced financial costs, and there are no alternative solutions for this road project. The second project concerns the toll collection on Rv. 23 Oslofland compound. The first stage of construction was paid down in August 2013. In the same year, it was decided to continue the collection pending the construction of tunnel 2 and to prevent a large increase in traffic volumes. It is now proposed not to apply for an extension of the pre-recovery. The right-hand side supports this. However, it must be expected that free passage in the Oslo Tunnel and a strong increase in the rates of bombing around Oslo will lead to a strong increase in traffic on RV. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox It could jeopardise road safety. Three fatal accidents have occurred in the current year. 23 - No one in the tunnel. Last week two people died in traffic accidents on the same road – one in Frogn and one in Lier. With this in mind, we assume that one follows traffic developments closely, as the Council of State has explained. In the summary, the Ministry explains the price reduction of period tickets for NSB AS and the status of the work on the railway reform. This is a follow-up to the budget agreement for the current year. This means that the price of the monthly and annual cards will be reduced by 20 pst. outside areas with existing tariff cooperation between the NSB and the respective transport operators. However, it is a fact that there are some rarities in areas where such tariff cooperation exists. The right sees a great need to look into this and refers to the Committee's recommendation IV: ‘The size asks the Government of the State budget for 2017 to provide an assessment of what it could mean for the overall collective offer if the tariff difference between the NSB and the collective societies – at present. Routes, Columbus and AtB – are harmonised.’ In this context, I would like to point out that, among other things: Akershus County annually allocates significant funds to the NSB for similar price subsidies. However, from the point of view of this county, it becomes a bit strange that outside the Ruter area it is the state that is responsible for the subsidies. It is a bit incomprehensible that a transport company with an operating result of 2.8 billion. kr i 2015 – of which SEK 1.2 billion. in the case of NSB passenger services, there is no room for making such adjustments on their own. This brings me to the next element I want to mention – the railway reform. The Railway Directorate and the Railway Infrastructure Undertaking were formally established on 1 February 2016. The majority of structural changes in the railway sector shall take place on 1 January 2017. Train traffic is gradually being put at a competitive disadvantage. The right is satisfied with the progress in this matter. For rail purposes, the Ministry takes up the ERTMS project. The Ministry explains the increased costs of the project in the context of the experience sections and the increase in scope and other costs. The project means that the routes that are not currently remotely controlled will be one. In addition, existing remote control systems and installations will be replaced. I expect the department to look at the possibilities that new projects will receive ERTMS from day one. The collection of local funding grants for the placing on the market of fuels in Tromsøpacket 3, Step 1, is an interesting matter. In Tromsø, since the early 1990s, a local grant for the marketing of fuels has been required to partly finance infrastructure. This represents 97 ears per litre of fuel in 2016. This scheme is extended. It supports the Right. It may be worth noting that in other parts of the country, too, it has been assessed whether this could be an alternative to tolls. It's a cheaper way to charge money. It has, however, been stranded by the challenges of demarcation — something that is not a problem on an island.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1795	I Prop. 126 S for 2015–2016 several cases follow-up to previous decisions in the Stortinget. I just want to focus on some of them and otherwise refer to the rapporteur's good review. It is gratifying that the work to replace our dear Varoddbru from 1956 can be started in 2016. We also notice that the project has a calculated positive socio-economic net utility. Through the construction of new Varoddbru, together with the project E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal, one is in the process of implementing an important part of the new E18 development in the South. The majority of the population deliver what it has promised through the follow-up of appropriations to important projects that provide more coherent development in the region. It also provides the basis for fewer deaths and serious injuries and increased producibility. The Christian People's Party has been clear about the need to establish a roadside supervision independent of the state road system. In the same way as for rail and aircraft, it is important that supervision on the road is given an independent and independent role. This is about creating the necessary distance between the road owner and the body to ensure that road construction and maintenance rules and regulations are followed up in a satisfactory manner. We are therefore pleased to record that roadside supervision as a separate management body should be in place early in 2017. So we're taking an important and necessary step to make the collective travel offer more accessible to customers through the establishment of a national travel planner and a continuous electronic ticketing system. Seamless travel, yes, there is an important simplification that there is every reason to believe will lead to more people choosing to travel collectively. The fact that one makes a link between the state company, which was intended to play the role of sales and ticketing companies on the railway, and the corresponding task for the rest of the collective offer is considered a rational and in every way sensible solution. That way you get a system together with one actor. The replacement of old and out-of-date signalling and securing installations on the railway is a major and absolutely necessary task. Distinguished installations are both technically and economically challenging. A day-to-day train with fewer unwanted stops while increasing passenger safety is an important investment in a collective offer that we want more and more people to make use of in the future. The ERTMS project will be the largest modernisation project for Norwegian rail in recent times. We record that in the work on the railway reform, the directorate and infrastructure company will be in regular operation from 1 January 2017. Three interim carriers are established through a restructuring of NSB AS and ROM Eiendom AS is transferred to the infrastructure company. For the Christian People's Party it is important that one still has a strong NSB, a state company, which can be a central player in the Norwegian market. For this reason, it has been essential for us that NSB AS can continue as a single transport company, consisting of both NSB passenger trains, Train Company AB, NSB Gjøvikbanen, Nettbuss and CargoNet, 100 pst. owned by the State. Now, as it looks, there's every reason to believe that NSB AS will be well rusted in the competition for the announced train sections. In the process of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector, it is positive to note that after Transnova became part of Enova, Enova has established seven transport programme areas, where both public and private actors can apply for support. In 2015, it was allocated a total of 281 million. kr for different transport projects. Once the four cooperation parties have agreed to establish a new hydrogen filling station bet programme area, an infrastructure that can provide the basis for a market also for hydrogen cars, as it is established for electric cars, may be gradually rolled out. We're going to reach the goal of 50 pst. reducing emissions in the transport sector by 2030, it is important that we use all new and available technologies. This does not apply only to road transport. It's as much about planes, ships and ferries as it is about rail, where today you have diesel-powered train sections. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is also following up requirements for low-carbon technology in the tenders for the national roads. It is important that the country has a targeted and innovative strategy, which can contribute to the development and construction of this type of low-emission ferries, usually at Norwegian shipyards, and their deployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1818	It is a unanimous recommendation for a decision in the matter, but I still have some comments on some of the points in the matter. The first one concerns ERTMS, which several have visited. I'm worried that we're not going to be able to keep the progress that's set, and if it were to end up with an intermediate solution to the new sections that are under construction, it would be incredibly boring. This is important if we are to make use of the potential that the railway has for more goods on the track. It is important for increased passenger traffic that we can quickly put in place new signalling systems. And it is absolutely necessary that we manage to keep the planned progress. I would prefer that we could do it quickly, because some crossing tracks on some sections of the track are unused pending a new signalling system. Then there is a note that the Central Party and the Workers' Party have on the overruns of costs on the E6 Helgeland North, and that is a concern we have. Now some of us representatives have met the municipalities, and the situation is so demanding that the Swedish Road Administration is considering cutting off the project in order to reduce the cost framework. It is as of today’s date exceedances of 450 million. kr, and they need to have a clearance within early autumn in order not to have to start taking part or taking out road safety measures. It was by no means the intention of Stortingen when the project was adopted. It is incredibly important to provide a clarification and a solution to keep the road safety measures that lie there and to keep the part loads that were in the project, otherwise you will have major standard breaks and still have half-poor solutions. I fervently ask the Council of State to notice this and try to find a solution as quickly as possible. The representative of Rommetveit was involved in several projects that have been delayed or for which no clarification has been given. One of the projects he did not mention, and which I intend to mention, is the E39 Rogfast and the extension of the prior collection. There a joint committee said that the project was expected to start in 2015. Government funds were also expected for the projects. I sincerely hope that we get a proposition for Stortinget properly quickly, so that we do not delay progress even more – that we get a proposition, or that we take the necessary clarification in the state budget for 2017. Finally, I see that you want to split up, among other things. You do it for Avinor. You want to set up new companies. It follows the course followed in the process of rail reform, with fragmentation in several state enterprises. I'm very sceptical about the increased bureaucracy it's going to lead to, and I don't think that's necessarily the best solution. Special transport measures from the Ministry now include the organisation and tasks of travel planning and electronic ticketing. It's basically a very good thing. The size has clearly said that you want seamless travel, but do you necessarily need to set up a state-owned company to do that? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1835	The proposition follows up a number of issues within the transport area, including: discount on train journeys and a national, competitively neutral, electronic ticketing system. These are issues for which the Left has a majority in Stortinget, and for which the government is now following up. We're very happy about that. Let me first correct three incurries, where the Left has fallen out of the comments in the vote of the Committee. This applies for the first discount on train journeys. In the 2016 state budget, the left was passed on to introduce a 20 pst discount. on NSB-travels where no tariff cooperation exists. The left is pleased that the government is following up the decision. Travellers who live outside of tariff cooperation or who have a longer distance from city centres will enjoy the fact that it is now reasonable to choose rail as a means of transport. The left sees it as very important to put this system in place, so that we now ensure that even more people can choose an environmentally friendly travel day. The left wants to extend this system to include tariff cooperation, and will come back to this in the budget for the harvest. The other concerns national ticketing system. The left is very positive that the government in the proposition follows up the impact of a new national ticketing system, which we promoted through a Document 8 proposal. The left agrees that rail sales and ticketing systems should appear as equally seamless and attractive to the public even when competition on the track is opened up. It will create a simpler travel day for those who choose public transport. The ambitions of the majority to make use of such offers are well complemented by this. The left meets that a national flight planner can be realised in 2017. The latter concerns the ERTMS project. Many of the old signalling and securing systems on the national network are in the process of passing, or having passed, their technical lifetime. Substantial amounts are put through this proposition to replace old and out-of-date railway signalling and securing facilities. With the aim of allowing more people to choose the railway, this is very important in order to ensure that commuters have a predictable daily journey by rail. The left sees very positively that this work is being adjusted. To ensure that there is no error here – so there are three paragraphs in the setting where the left has fallen, and must be inserted – in order for it to be completely correct, I read from pages 3 and 4 in the setting. There are three sections, and I quote: ‘Under specific transport measures, the establishment of Routebanken AS is addressed. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are very pleased to see the establishment of a single ticketing system for collective travel. This will create a simpler travel day for those who choose public transport. The ambitions of the majority to make use of such offers are well complemented by this. For railway purposes, the department deals with the matter around 20 pst. discount outside tariff cooperation at NSB. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, are pleased that such a solution is now in place. Travellers who live outside of tariff cooperation or with a longer distance from city centres will enjoy the fact that it is now reasonable to choose the railway as a means of transport. The majority consider it very important to put this system in place so that we can now ensure that even more people can choose an environmentally friendly travel day.» And on page 4: ‘For railway purposes, the members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party note that the ERTMS project is being followed up. Substantial amounts are put through this proposition to replace old and out-of-date signalling and securing facilities on the railway. This is very important to ensure a predictable working day for commuters by rail. These members welcome the intensification of this work.’ These three sections were supposed to be on the left, but we're not in on them. Now I've at least read them out, so now we're at least in there. Finally, let me say that research into and development of new environmentally friendly technologies in the transport sector is very important in the transition to a greener society. After the Paris climate summit, there is no longer any doubt, and we must work towards a zero emission target and a green transport sector. The left meets an ambitious maritime 21 strategy, to be announced by the end of 2016. The left is still committed to ensuring a majority of environmentally friendly measures that make it easier and cheaper to choose an environmentally friendly option.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1867	Then both the president and the secretary got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1870	There's something improper about these -- what should a call it -- the lobster-and-canari-propositions coming in spring on the transport side. We get 5 minutes each to discuss the entire breadth of Norwegian transport policy. It's a little short, but that's the tradition. I would like to say that the investment on ERTMS is good, and I intend to ask a question to the Council of State. After all, railway investments were significantly reduced in the budget for this year, and I would like to ask the Council of State: is there room in the future budgets to increase the investment on ERTMS to ensure faster progress and implementation of the replacement of the signalling system than the government is currently proposing? It would be all right to get an answer. We agree with what is available about the E18, and what concerns Tromsøpakt 3, but we say no to Rogfast in connection with this setting. I am addressing the proposal that we have made on that occasion. I think it is necessary to revise Rogfast's view in the light of the climate negotiations in Paris and the climate commitments that we have undertaken, and the effort that is necessary, and to re-prioritise transport resources more towards zero-emission solutions. When looking at the whole road project, the free E39, which lies there, and at the costs of some of the gigantic fjord crossings that are there, it must be allowed to raise the question: Is it not reasonable to give priority, for example. E16 between Voss and Bergen in front of the crossing between Us and southward along the E39, which costs about the same? Is it not reasonable to take some of these tens of billions of projects and to invest in socio-economically more sensible lightning solutions, either between the west and the east or between the largest cities in the West? My and SV's answer is yes, it is. We should take the big re-prioritisation debate when we see the costs and the price tag for the free E39, but I see that the majority of the committee wants to go further with Rogfast, and we're going to get some exciting years when we're going to discuss tough priorities on the transport side of the time that comes. Then I'll say one more thing about what's on the side of the state. It is now proposed, and endorsed by the majority of the population, to create a common ticketing solution for all collectives. I see good intentions with such a grip, but I would like to point out at the same time that the experience we have so far had with large state ICT bets on the transport side, among others. on the toll collection side, is not exactly something that has been a brilliant success story. Now that we decide to have one system, as it's being added up by the government, makes at least I think it's a cross of thought whether this is a reasonable way to go. But we're only going to wish those who are going to start and do that work, good luck with the work, and hope that it's a success. We know from Oslo and the collaboration between NSB and Router that it is completely possible to do this with different inputs to common systems, but at the same time we see that the NSB has not managed to solve this around the other big cities, where there would be a need to solve that. There were some general comments from SV, we're not in the committee – and I don't intend to try the practice of Abid Raja by reading out all the comments we support, in their entirety. Then I have already mentioned the proposal that SV has made in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1883	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1887	In this case, we talk about a number of issues in which the Storting must be informed about progress, about what happens in terms of costs, etc. I think it's nice and good that there's a very big consensus, all in all, about what's suggested here. It shows good support for the line chosen by today's majority. Then I register that there is some criticism especially from the Workers' Party, who on the one hand say that it is being used too little money, while they have no own suggestions to spend more money. In the financial debate, we get a lot of criticism that we spend too much money. That's why there's no suggestion to spend more money either, one will really just create dissatisfaction. I'll take that very calmly. All in all, the things the government is doing are well on track. We are ahead of the national transport plan and the allocation of funds, in terms of the percentage of the plan, and not least when comparing the appropriations so far in this two and a half year period with the appropriations for the previous two and a half years before we took over. So there's a lot of areas where you're going to build big things, and then I think it's really good and important that the Storting is informed that we're working to keep costs down. ERTMS is one of those areas. We have a project that will cost 20 billion. kr or more. Then I record that someone is worried that costs are increasing, while they won't take the time to actually check that we get the project carried out in as good a cheap way as possible, but instead they just want to get started right away. I don't think that's a good approach. It is precisely when we see that projects are very complex, and that costs can increase significantly, that we should be sure that we choose the right solution before we start, instead of starting and then starting to beam back and wonder what went wrong. I remind you that former government councilman Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said in connection with the case of transition to ERTMS, that we should hurry slowly because this is complex. It's a little strange that the same opposition parties no longer see it as complex, but add money to everything. I'll warn you not to continue the red-green decay on the railway, which we took over. For eight red-green years, one managed to double the overall maintenance run on the railway. When we have to choose the order of where to start improving the signalling systems, it's simply because in some places it's much worse off than elsewhere. That's why a pointer on the Ofot track that some place you should start, and because it's a little easier to have control of which trains you should upgrade. If you start with Folloban – and there are many good ideas about why you should start there – it means that you have to upgrade all trains in the East to be able to run with ERTMS. It is both complex and expensive, for some of the advantages of the rail in the East are that one can alternate with the material. There is also a danger that one will not be able to open the Follobane when the Follobane is finished, because one must wait for the signalling systems to be built. Then I would rather use the Folloban faster if there are many years of difference, rather than leaving a tunnel, completed, empty pending a signalling system. With regard to the monthly rail ticket discount scheme, which was negotiated by the civil parties, we have a good dialogue and progress. It's a shame that things take time, but sometimes it's complicated to make things work technologically, but it's now getting right. I find that there are some people who are critical of us removing the tolls on the Oslofjord tunnel, while they themselves are not against removing them. We think it's important that we get rid of the collection when we can, while it's important that we take care of security, and we do. Then it has been emphasized that when the Oslofjord Tunnel was adopted in its time, it was adopted as a project that would have two parallel runs. It is quite natural that the Vegvesen has planned in line with those decisions. Now, when there's new rules that make you have problems with some of the gradients, it's natural that we take a round with ESA and others to see if we can find solutions for it. There's nothing special about this government. It's something that any government would relate to, but we have good progress on that project as well. So I remind you that in the case of Rogfast, the plan was to put the shovel in the ground in 2015 that one had control plans in place in 2013. We are now in 2016, and some municipalities are not yet completely finished with the control plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1910	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1913	It is apparent from the Council of State's response to questions raised by the Labour Party on Rv. 23 The Oslo Earth compound that it is uncertain how ESA will adjust to the exception from a maximum of 5 pst. increase in tunnels. At the same time, the State Road Service has spent 170 million dollars. SEK to, among others regulation planning of a new tunnel run. My question to the Council of State will then be: What time did the Council of State notice that ESA will be able to reject such a solution? And what kind of dialogue has the Council of State and the Department had with ESA until now in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1920	I mentioned some of this in my post. We're concerned that we're going to get a better crossing over the Oslo soil, and for me it's natural that we're trying to have more thoughts in our head at once. So now I've been shut up because not everything goes as fast as the Workers' Party and the opposition hoped, although it's actually somewhat in line with the progress the Workers' Party had planned in position. In the case of rv. 23, I have no plans to stop the planning of the tunnel that we can get, although at the same time we have to clarify what kind of action spaces are, or what problems we can get in terms of rate of climb. That's why we've also said that we have to figure out if it's a possible and better solution to build a bridge or build a tunnel somewhere else. We have that dialogue on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1927	Unfortunately, I have to arrest the Council of State when he talks about crossing «over» Oslofjorden. Here's what we're talking about crossing the Oslofjorden, in a tunnel. If ESA were to set itself aside for a parallel tunnel run to rv. 23, that means they're $170 million. kr that the State Road Service will claim for the project, and which are therefore tolls paid by the carist will be discarded?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1934	If you plan something that you can't build, you can risk any of the money being wasted, but far from everything, because it's about what alternatives we build instead. Looking at one at all of the options that have been explored for crossing, over, on or under Oslo Earth, much of the way will be useful because much of this is happening on land. Then it's the actual intersection below. What would have been interesting to hear, when the Workers' Party takes up this subject, is whether the Workers' Party believes that we should have stopped planning, and thus delayed the whole progress. Because that's what's actually indicated by asking that kind of question, that a believe we should wait until all the answers were given from ESA before we went on to evaluate what solutions we ourselves want. That kind of progress I don't recommend. I want to make sure that we get a better crossing of or on – or on which preposition to use – Oslo soil, simply because it is important to better traffic management and a better connection between Eastfold and Westfold, and rather a better bypass around Oslo than what you have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1941	In its review of the activities of the Railway Agency, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has identified several deviations which, in their view, have not been closed within the agreed deadlines. This has been mentioned in the last few weeks in both the evening post and the day’s activities. Deviations which are not closed within the time limits set may give the impression that not all of the requirements are taken seriously and create uncertainty for travellers. How will the Council of State ensure that the Railway Agency follows up the deviations pointed out by the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness and, where appropriate, by the Railway Surveillance Authority within the time limits set?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1948	Safety on the railways is very important – yes, safety in all modes of transport is very important. That's why we're taking this very seriously. We have had good contact with the Railway Agency, the supervision and others in this matter. Then I also find that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness on its website has published a text that shows that the way today's Business has reproduced them does not correspond to what the DSB actually stands for. That's why I think it's important that we look at what's real here, and not just some media headlines. After the accident of the train running running from Alnabru to the port, there has been a lot of work at the Railway Station to clean up this. They both looked at the distance where the accident actually happened, and they started working to find out if there are other areas where similar things can happen. They also initiated measures. It is not true that nothing was done until after the supervision had been present, but it is true that they had not found a solution that worked. They had tried to install a physical thing, but it did not work as planned. Therefore, this is something that they are improving, and the supervision said that they should soon be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1959	The Council of State was in its contribution a little bit within the E39 and progressing on it, but it is important to clarify when we can expect a proposition to the Stortinget on the E39 Rogfast. Could the Council of State be a little more specific than to say that some of the latest regulatory plans are awaited?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1964	This government wants to build more roads and more railways. There is no internal dispute with us, as it is in some other constellations, whether or not you want to go at all. It shows that we can have a very good progress on this. This is not a political dispute, but it is a matter of ensuring that all the necessary decisions are in place. In fact, we have progressed faster than would normally have been in this context, because normally we should not start what is called quality assurance 2 until the last regulatory plan is in place. We have already started the quality assurance work at Rogfast, just to buy us time to get the matter speeded up for Stortinget. My ambition is that we should be able to bring it in during – hopefully – this harvest, so that the Storting can make its decisions. Then I hope that all the parties in the Storting will support this, both those who were involved and put forward the previous NTP, and those who are now running, so that we get a unanimous increase in this important project. It is important that all the different parties in the policy show that one is actually behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1973	In 2008, the left-hand side received 20 pst. Discounts on collective travel in Akershus and Oslo, and we have now, together with the government, been passed on for 20 p.m. discount on NSB travel, please note where there is no existing tariff cooperation. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State of the Autumn budget be a driving force within the government for us to get to 20 pst. discount on monthly card also where there is existing tax base work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1979	I think it would be wrong if I were to start with pre-post-fects for the state budget in the autumn, and that applies both internally in the government and in collaboration with the Left and Christian People's Party. But I can see that yes, the Left has been a good driver and has received a lot of hearing in today's bourgeois majority in order to invest more in rail and public transport in general. The railway budget has increased by 50 pst, and there are over 100 more train departures from Oslo S now than when we took over. Not least the big cities have earned us a bourgeois majority, with the Left and Christian People's Party, working to increase the appropriations for public transport. Now we have signed an Oslopackak 3-Agreement in Oslo and Akershus, which is largely based on a bourgeois majority ensuring that the state should take 50 pst. the investments in new, large infrastructure projects and the fact that there is much more money available for collective activity and action than would have been done if the previous regime had continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1986	In this article too, the Council of State took up the maintenance phase from the previous two major periods, and therefore I ask the Council of State the following questions: Does the Council of State recognise that, with the alternative budgets of the Progress Party from 2006 to 2013, there would be a higher maintenance period? It's a yes/no question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1991	The claim from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is simply wrong. There would have been much more money allocated to both road and rail in the eight-year period with the alternative budget of the Progress Party than was done with the budget of the Red-Green Government – precisely because I believe both the Progress Party alone and the bourgeois opposition all the way pointed out that letting infrastructure down does not bring good socio-economic benefits, either in the short term or, at least, in the long term. We also see that when someone, for example, says: saw the number of stops on the railway. One may allow the maturity to last for a while without serious consequences, but eventually it becomes visible. One of my predecessors, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, was down on Oslo S many times, especially in the years 2011 and 2012, and had to respond to the collapse of the railway over and over again. Despite that, we saw a real decline in road and rail maintenance appropriations from 2011 to 2012, from 2012 to 2013, and even from 2013 to 2014. So one learned little from the mistakes you had to answer for yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e1998	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2003	I take the word to tie some words to the progress of E39 Rogfast. It's a very important project for Rogaland. It's a very important project for the West. It is an important project for Norway. I note that the Council of State, which was at NRK Rogaland on 26 February and promised to start construction early in 2017, now uses the word «hopefully» about how far the proposition comes to Stortinget in the fall. It bothers me. I can live with being rude. We have registered that projects that should have started in 2015 are now being marketed as an acceleration. It's hard for me to understand, all the time that I'm now in 2016. One can understand, of course, that there are many challenges to a project like Rogfast, but I thought the government should be more honest in its communication. We have now heard news that demanding mountains with high copper content have been found under White Island. What meaning does it have, when you might not be able to fill the masses in the sea, I could imagine that the Council of State commented a little bit on. So to the principle of toll financing and pre-claiming: it's something that the Progress Party has traditionally been strong opponents of. There were those opponents of when it was introduced, but now they have made the choice that they want to pass it on. It is important to note that here the government had a real choice: either carry on the pre-claim or exit the pre-claim and finance further planning of Rogfast through government funds. I wish the Council of State could say something about the extent to which any assessment has been made that we have now received a very expensive holiday offer on the route E39 Mortavika – Arsvågen, where the traffic refusal resulting from the extra tolls must probably have made the ferry offer more expensive. Can the government say anything about it? I just want to say that I think it's impressive when the Storting decides to preclaim rv. 23 Oslofordnung to be closed in August 2016. It's done, so it's a big toll for the Progress Party. It's creative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2018	It is becoming a tradition that Storting’s mandate to launch some of the largest projects in mainland Norway takes place in the treatment of joint proposals from the Ministry of Transport. Two years ago, we gave a clear signal to the Follobanen project, with a cost framework of about 26 billion. kr, which also appears to be eligible for a discount due to the exchange rate. Today we're doing it on another big project, corresponding to 26.6 billion. kr, distributed over a period of approximately 15 years. This applies to signalling installations on the railway. In the current national transport plan, presented by the Stoltenberg Government, it was established that today’s signalling facilities were on their way out by date and had to be replaced by the new ERTMS system by 2030. There's a broad consensus that it's important to get this in place. Although the punctuality of train traffic since 2011 has been improving due to the efforts of the Stoltenberg government, signalling system failures are one of the main challenges of the train running in the future. And there's probably no reason to think there's going to be anything better in the future. When the government of Solberg laid out its government platform, there were a few points about the railway, but one of them applied to the ERTMS. We could read that the government would ‘present a long-term plan for the conversion of the signalling systems to the European standard ERTMS’.» To the extent that you were to have hope that this would mean that the ERTMS project would have a higher priority, there are probably many with me who have been disappointed. Only after nearly three years in government will it now be proposed to launch the investment project. This means that we are likely to have to build so-called conventional installations – temporary installations – over-amounts, estimated at more than 1 billion. kr, which will have to be replaced by ERTMS in a few years. The goal must be to get as much road and rail as possible for the money. This is not achieved by building temporary installations for billions. So to another thing, that hasn't come into this conspiracy proposition, that maybe we've all been waiting for: it's E6 Helgeland North. There was an extra cost of 450 million. kr, which the Council of State has chosen not to come to Stortingen to find a solution in the aggregate proposition. As one representative said earlier today from the pulpit, it is beginning to become critical of parts of the project. So we're excited when the Council of State is going to come back to that matter. One last thing: it's about the creative establishment of companies. I'm recording that the Council of State is straight behind that Avinor reorganizes at Svalbard to avoid taxation to the Norwegian state.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2036	I just want to make some comments. Here, time is spent on increased costs related to ERTMS, and then there is criticism because you do not get started faster. I am pleased that we have a government council and a government that is conscious of its responsibility when it comes to how to use taxpayers' money and actually ensure quality before you start. There is no doubt: this is one of the biggest infrastructure ups of our time in Norway, and we are probably many who have been around the country waiting for the platform once because there were no trains due to signal faults. Former governments have had opportunities, and this is about delays and lack of appropriations and lack of action, at least over the last 20 years. Now something's happening. Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås claims that there is a reduction of investments in the railway. Then I wonder where he's been. For 2012, the level of ambition was not so high in the red-green government. They cut $47 million off. kr for planning purposes. That's why you can't invest any more, you can't spend any more money. In the current year, it's 1,144 million. kr, which means that this government bets on collective. Toll collection for the Oslofjord tunnel may cease. There will be no more road safety from paying tolls. It ceases because it has been paid. I'm also happy that you make qualified choices here before you decide anything and decide something. Traffic safety has been stated by both the Committee and the State Council. We have to keep track of that. But there will be no more road safety from paying for bombs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2049	I just want to comment on a couple of things that have emerged. Firstly, I think that I am beginning to recognize this attack from the Workers' Party that things are not happening, and that it is not going fast enough. We've heard that a lot. The point is that we've given more money than ever. We have progress in matters. We needed some planning resources to get it up to a decent level when we joined the government. We use those planning tools to plan the projects in the future. There is also some of the things that have been mentioned here as one of the reasons why you don't always get into the goal of starting up at the right time: the planning process takes longer than expected. Toll collection is always a bit delicate, but toll collection is okay when you know that the projects are coming. That's a sensible way to go about it. But the normal thing in other cases has been that you first built the road and then demanded the money afterwards. It's because those who use the road have to be sure that you've got what you're paying for. We have a gruesome example of Oslopackak 3 and the E18 West Corridor. Since 2008, additional tolls have been collected for the road project, which is still under discussion about its implementation. Now luckily it's over, now it's the way, and I'm happy for it. The rule is that you have to build the road before you charge the money. But at least you have to close the collection when the road is paid. And when you've been through this for some time in connection with the Oslo Earth Tunnel, it's because within a certain period -- you've given yourself three years to see what you should do -- you haven't yet fully achieved the goal of the alternative that you're going to build. So at some point you have to say, now this way is paid down. In return, we have now launched a project at the other end of Rv. 23, which also means a lot, that's what's going to happen through the drama. So there are important projects going on in RV. 23 today, and you continue the project at the other end. I pointed out in my post that when there have been three fatal accidents on Rv. 23 so far this year, it says something about the nature of the road outside the tunnels. It's actually a road that requires investment, both on the Lier side and on the Frogn side.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2062	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2076	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from the member of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2083	Let me first thank the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation in this matter. E18 Ruggtvedt – Dørdal is one of the main road links through Telemark and between the East and South. There are probably a lot of people in Telemark who are now taking part in the negotiations in Stortinget, and for many, this is a big day. Today, the Storting will give green light to build a new E18 between Ruggtvedt and Dørdal in Telemark. Many people have waited a long time for this day – someone would say that it may have been unnecessary for a long time. Today's road has varying standard, with a lot of edge construction and lots of crossings and off-roads. Along with high traffic, this leads to many serious accidents and poor performance, especially on weekends. Traffic is a nuisance to the environment for the peripherals. New Veier has decided that the line E18 Langangen – Dørdal is one of the first sections of the company’s portfolio to be expanded. This is in line with Report. St. 26 for 2012–2013 National Transport Plan 2014–2023, which provides the basis for the start of construction during the first four-year period, subject to the conclusion of a partial toll financing scheme. Local authorities have taken these decisions, today the Storting does the same. It is planned to start construction in 2017 and it is planned to open up for traffic in 2020. The road project covers the construction of 16,8 km new four-field road. In addition, 1,2 km of two-field road will be built for interconnection with today's road. This reduces the new road by a journey distance of 1,6 km. The road shall be built for approx. 4.4 B.C.E. kr, of which the toll ratio is 40,6 pst. It is a unanimous committee that today wants to put the spade in the ground as quickly as possible to build this road. Of course, the working party believes that it makes sense to look at the calculation technical interest rate on toll loans, both in this project and in other projects. It will open up lower tariffs, shorter downtime or an extension of the project, which in turn will provide more money. A unanimous increase is due today to give a signal to the Minister of Transport and the Government to look at the calculation rate. The working party will point in particular to the local decisions in paragraph 5, which clearly states that an increased economic space is desired on the part of local authorities to be used at lower rates, better discounting arrangements or shorter collection periods. We know that on the major stretch between the East and South, that is, E18, there will still be a need to do more. This is one of the country's most important transport corridors. But today it's about Bamble, Porsgrund and Telemark, and the announcement from the Stortinget is ready: put the spade in the ground, start building the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2109	This is the second of three propositions that we are now dealing with in the interview before the summer dealing with projects to be built out of the new development company Nye Weier AS. The first proposition, on E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand, was made by Stortinget on 30 May. Today we will treat both E18 Ruggtvedt-Dørdal and E6 Kolomoen-Moelv. Overall, this represents a distance of 81,5 km of motorway and projects have a total cost of well and well 18 billion. kr. We now see a change of pace in the development of four-field roads in Norway, and I have great expectations for the rapid and effective implementation of all these routes. I will not go into detail about the content of the project. It is well described in the toll proposal and well reproduced by the case rapporteur, but I would still like to highlight some important elements. The E18 is the main transport year between South and Eastern Europe and an important regional road. I think we can all agree that the expansion of the E18 so far has been too pieceful and divided. We are now facilitating more comprehensive planning and implementation by providing total responsibility and predictable funding for New Veier AS. Today's road has varying standard, with a lot of edge construction and lots of crossings and off-roads. The combination of high traffic and poor roads leads to many serious accidents and poor performance. So it's high time we did something about this distance. Within the framework of the project, funds have also been allocated for the restoration of the old E18 and the extension has been reclassified as the county road. The old E18 will go partly parallel to the new one, but it has not been considered necessary to have toll stations on the old road. We are pleased about that, and we assume that the main principle of such projects is that there should be no cross-roads bomb. Also at this toll proposition, we get a discussion of computational interest rates. Now the red-green parts suddenly became very eager to discuss a lower computational interest rate, which they did not have the ability to do very much with when they themselves ran. It is a bit striking that what was impossible when they were in government, is now quite obvious. That being said, we are pleased that this discussion is coming up. We are committed to using the space of action that is, with the most correct interest rate setting possible, while ensuring sufficient robustness in funding. In the 2016 government budget, the government proposed an interest compensation scheme for toll loans. It would reduce interest rate risk and lay the basis for lower toll rates or faster downtime. Unfortunately, this proposal did not receive a majority in Stortinget. However, there may be grounds for using a lower interest rate in determining the toll rates of this project. If lower interest rates are achieved in the market, it is fully possible to use this space to adjust the financing arrangements, e.g.: by reducing toll rates in cooperation with regional authorities and in this case New Weier AS. That authority is common to the Ministry of Transport when dealing with toll proposals, as well as in this case. I note that local policy decisions are clear that there is an increased room for action, for example: at a lower rate or increased traffic base, the benefit of road users shall be provided through either lower fares, better discount schemes or shorter downtime. We fully agree with that, and it's being made right in this proposition. The discount has been increased to 20 pst, which in itself gives a fairer pass. In addition, the Ministry will review the level of interest rates, which may mean lower rates or shorter amortisation periods. In this way, this proposition and the attitude of an overall committee meet local policy wishes. I record that the Workers' Party and the Centre are still critical of the establishment of New Veier AS in many ways. They would have to be, but it must be a crossroads for the critics that New Vejer AS is already running three major projects, with a total of 81,5 km of new road and a safe four-field road. The creation of New Roads provides us with a tool for a more coherent and comprehensive development, and we are already seeing the result. I hope so too, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. With this toll bill, we provide the basis for increased accessibility, we provide the basis for shorter travel time and reduced accident risk through the construction of a four-field, non-composite road in an area of high traffic. It's a pleasure day for everyone who uses this road and depends on it in their daily work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2128	I see the need to comment on some of the comments of the Workers' Party and the Centre's party through the examination of this matter. It becomes increasingly clear to me through such comments that the election campaign is approaching, and lines of very simple rhetoric and argument are served that initially open doors are opened and fall through. In the debate on the previous proposition, for the Arendal–Tvedestrand section, I said that it was tempting to record a rather significant change of pace in the debate on tolls from several parties in the Stortinget. Whether this is based on the need to take the Advance Party or on the fact that they've changed their position, I'm uncertain, but I'm probably rather against the first. Let me make it quite clear: the Progress Party has not changed its position on toll collection policies, but as I have just registered, it is not a majority to end this way of financing. But who knows? Maybe the trend is turning around. Once again, I dare to remind you that when the state budget for 2016 was presented, the government put forward proposals for an interest-rate compensation scheme to ensure that we get the tariffs down, and that the drivers will not take the cost of the loan, but for the road. This was only in favour of the Right and the Advance Party. Through the treatment of the propositions for Arendal-Tvedestrand, Colomoen-Moelv and Ruggtvedt-Dørdal, the Workers' Party is now supporting exactly the same. I must honestly say that it is despairing. Now it's not new that the Workers' Party is quickly changing its positions, so I guess we have to prepare for this in the future. I said during the treatment of the proposition for Arendal-Tvedestrand that it was a joyous day with this change of pace. Yes – I guess I have to say the same today. I note that claims are made that in this project there is a lower government share than in previous projects. It's just that it's wrong. The model used for the distribution of potential cost increases has been used by former transport ministers, including the Centre Party. The practice they have put in place is, in fact, the practice of the Centre Party in this matter. I am therefore pleased that the government is now delivering a high-offensive work on how, for the future, we avoid expensive cost increases and build infrastructure more reasonably. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good debate and again for the very positive trend we can now record in terms of the debate on tolls and tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2147	E18 Ruggtvedt – Dørdal is the second toll bill adopted by Stortinget to be built out of New Roads. It is very gratifying that we are now moving on to a continuous expansion of the E18 Oslo-Kristiansand route. The accident rate on the route Rågtvedt–Dørdal is too high. Over the period 2005–2014, there have been 84 personal injury accidents, 8 of which fatal accidents involving a total of 11 deaths have occurred. A new four-field road on the route will clearly be an important contribution to reducing these accidents. Today’s E18 is reclassified from national road to county road, and it would be right in our view to consider whether restrictive measures should be imposed on old E18 when toll collection starts, after observing how traffic patterns develop. Also in this project as well as for the route E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal there is reason to expect a market interest rate at a lower level than the calculation technique of 5.5 pst. Yes, with the public guarantees of this type of project, everything suggests that the level of interest rates can be significantly lower. If there is evidence of a lower interest rate without a derogation from the requirement for a robust financing plan, good opportunities can be created to meet the wishes of the county council for lower tariffs, possibly shorter amortisation periods. We assume that the department and county council will be able to agree on this. Reduced travel time in a society with increased mobility requirements helps create a region enlargement that allows you to live where you live and work somewhere else, if you want. The continuous development of a common road network in densely populated areas, as is the case between the East and the South, will mean a great deal in order to create the necessary and crucial expansions of the housing and labour market. New, better and more traffic-proof roads along with the development of good collective services create the living and working regions of the future. There is no professional evidence to claim that the improvement of road standard necessarily creates more traffic. Road development and improvements in today's standard mainly create higher road safety and better accessibility. Together with the development of new zero and low-emission vehicles that generate reduced emissions, the type of pavement development of which is part of the route Rugtvedt-Dørdal becomes an important contribution to the creation of a community that connects districts and urban regions in a functional and forward-looking way. So the Workers' Party and the Centre raise an important issue in their comments about the reasons for the cost increase the project has gone through from the NTP figures to the figures we have been presented in the proposition. Looking at the cost increase most, not all, major road projects have had in the last ten years, it is far higher than what you have experienced, for example. in our neighbouring country Sweden. There is reason to look for the causes, but not least to develop new solutions to see how one can contribute to reducing galloping cost developments. The Christian People's Party strongly believes that efforts to reduce planning time along with standardisation of the basic road development for which New Roads have become a spokesperson may be important steps to reduce costs. Making road development a form of industrial construction through several standardised solutions will, together with a well-functioning market with hopefully more and more major Norwegian players, be important steps that we believe can contribute to reducing costs. It should be a priority task to find new ways of building a road that can contribute to development in order to better control the cost increase in the future. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2164	This is a very important matter. E18 through Bamble is a way too accident-prone. There has been a great local commitment to improving the road, from individuals, filling and folding benches to Telemark. I can draw up the representative, Hoksrud, who has also mentioned the road both in time and in irregular manner in recent years. It's a big saying that the road is coming. Then I have to add some comments to what has been said earlier in the debate. The representative is wondering why the previous government didn't do anything about calculating interest rates. I want to remind you that the previous government reduced the interest rate. One also initiates processes to assess whether there was a basis for a further reduction in the interest rate. The representative Jensen indicates that it is not true when the centre party says that the state part of the project has gone down from NTP, and the toll part has gone up. Well, the toll part has increased from 38.6 pst. to 40.6. Then it's shown that this is supposed to be the Center Party's fault. I would like to remind you that there are now three major periods since the Central Party had the Minister of Transport, so that is obviously not right. The cost-sharing model to which reference is made is a model that takes effect from the decision making and during the period of construction on how to allocate the costs. There was a model, but it's the government's responsibility for the amount of toll added to each project. There should be no doubt about it. Therefore, the Centre Party has proposed that the toll part of this project should not be higher than that provided in the national transport plan. The party of progress has demanded and said, "Propose for the Stortinget, and we shall vote in favour." Now we have made suggestions in Stortinget, it will be exciting to see if this is followed up. It's hard for the Progress Party, this with tolls. This case and the next one illustrate it in a good way. But speaking is done. Toll collection records in Norway were recorded in 2014 and 2015. The total amount of tolls is increasing year by year, and new toll projects are still under way, over 10 billion. kr only today. This government and this majority of the population are behind the national transport plan when it comes to granting investment in the road. You can't talk around. That is the reality. I think it's a shame that a no-allow more money for investment in the way. New projects need to be built, roads need to be made safer, and business needs to be better promoted. I see that there is a large number of people and a mass of people supporting the proposal that is leading. The most important thing now is that construction is under way, that private contractors under this government, as under the previous government, can find the excavator and other equipment and start construction. The completion will be a big day for both Telemark and Südland, parts of the West and others using the road. With that, I'm going to bring up the Center Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2181	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2184	This is, I think, a big day. I do not understand why some dig into deep mines and am disappointed that they have not been given – I kept saying – cut tolls, which they themselves have voted against should be cut. We must first of all rejoice that the road is being built. Then I would like to see more people vote in favour of the government's proposal last summer to cut tolls and grant money to cut tolls. It is not useful first to say no to travel on holiday and then to insist that you did not join us. That is really what the Workers' Party and the Centre are doing in this case. It's a clean obstruction policy, it's just a dissatisfaction policy. Let us rather rejoice that something is happening on this road section, which I myself have been running on for so many decades and annoyed at the fact that different political colors have not been able to do anything about. It's not that it's the first time anyone's talking about this distance. It's not, and many people can take credit because they've been involved in planning it, for all things. It was probably inside the national motorway plan from 1963, too, so it's not the first time. But now it's actually decided that it should be built and financed, and that's the difference with everyone else who's talked about it. This route has not been good enough. There have been too many accidents. Too many people, families, have lost someone they're happy with. Now we get this improved. Building good quadruple highways provides security for the everyday lives of people who use them, but it also gives a better everyday life for those who use the road as their place of work, for truck drivers, craftsmen and others, who can now get a little more resty and a little faster, and with less wear on their vehicle. The discussion that we've seen in Oslo where red-green politicians say it's old-fashioned to build the four-field highway, I hope we don't get on this route – rather the next one. Making sure that a better link between housing and work regions by reducing travel time and increasing road safety is the main objective of our government in our transport policy. We're getting it to more and more places. Making sure that Telemark is even better included in business as the axis between Kristiansand and Oslo is very important to me. Valuable industrial enterprises are now able to reduce their costs. There is a lot of good labour that will now be able to expand their horizons of where they will build and live, and still find jobs that are relevant. Then I record that some people often find it so disappointing that little money is spent on road construction now. I'm a little surprised, because some of those voices have themselves been in government and have been with and proposed appropriations that were billions of dollars lower than what this year is used, an even more time to plan projects, and one so sadly an even greater cost increase in average project than what we are doing now. I'm not satisfied with the cost growth we see on some projects. That's why we're working on different solutions to cut those costs. These include: therefore we have set up the road company Nye Weger, precisely to look at other solutions that reduce price levels, precisely to see longer distances in the context. I record that in some of the comments here, this project is criticised that it is just a parcel of a long distance. That's exactly why we've set up the road company, so they'll be responsible for the entire route. Where one would not know what would happen to the route further, we can now read on construction.no that the head of this section is already planning further, precisely in order for one to be able to roll out a continuous project – instead of doing what other governments have done so often before, building piece by piece and division, while local politicians come to the government and complain that what was built 10-15 years ago is already undersized. That's the mistakes we avoid, just by looking at the whole thing, just by dimensionalizing big enough. I don't know about many debates because we're building too much highway. The Labour Party criticised the creation of New Roads that it would create a roadbonanza. They couldn't be in on that. I like that roadbonanza. I can handle that criticism. The other critic in this hall, the Center Party, could not help supporting Nye Veier because it allegedly would put Norwegian road construction back decades in time. Well, the way we are now repairing has been decades back in time for too many years. Now it also becomes forward-looking. I don't think there's anyone living along this route who experiences things being set back decades in time, when they finally, after many decades of fighting, see that the Stortinge makes decisions – because the government and the majority of today have made necessary reforms in the road sector, granted the necessary increased funds and made decisions. It's a happy day. I get to congratulate everyone, not only in Telemark, but throughout the South-East, that we are now making decisions that should have been taken a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2205	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2209	While the economic framework for the national transport plan seems to be coming up in five times from 2005 to 2016, we see that we don't get five times as much for the same money. In the current NTP, the cost of the route E18 Rugged-Dørdal is 3 320 million. kr. Now Stortinget gets a toll proposition where costs have increased by about 30 pst. compared to the national transport plan. It's serious, and I can't see that there's been any mention in the proposition of why costs have increased by 30 pst. during four years for this route. Does the Council of State think that this is immaterial information for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2216	No, it's not unimportant for the Storting. I also mentioned in my post that we are working hard to reduce the cost growth and hopefully get to a cost cut. I recall an article in the Evening Post in 2014 where the representative Magne Rommetveit, who actually belongs to the Workers' Party, said that the previous government did not do enough when it came to reducing the cost growth, a dared not to take the really tough roofs, a lot of just things scouring and walking – a little freely quoted, but the essence is correct. We've just grasped this. We've made sure to reorganize things, we've made sure New Veier AS itself has identified that much of the cost increase is due to decisions that are made early, and that one doesn't have a government plan, but one allows the municipalities to regulate, and that almost everyone who wants a cross gets a cross, and each cross costs 100 million. NOK, and in this way the increase in costs has been increased. That's exactly what you're getting at: making sure you get a standard that's as good as it should be, but where you can still pinch the money. We're going to work on that job, just to bring down the cost growth, and hopefully also the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2225	Since the Council of State believes this is not immaterial information for the Storting, I ask the Council of State to explain here in detail what this increase in the cost of the project is due to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2230	I invite Stortinget in almost all cases Stortinget deals with, to ask questions in the proceedings. It would be natural for such things to be addressed there, but it is also possible to ask written questions and get it properly documented. Some of the things that have increased costs are the general cost growth in the industry, and I thought the Workers' Party was also familiar with that. There is at least something that has been discussed in all other contexts outside the Working Party. One of the things that has increased costs is that we build a better standard. We build a standard to withstand a speed limit of 110 km/h instead of 100 km/h. I registered that when we increased our speed limit to 110 km/h, the Workers' Party ridiculed it. I think it makes sense anyway. We're going to continue building roads that can withstand modern vehicles and that are forward-looking. What is really expensive is what we experience when we travel to Eastfold and get criticism from labor party rapporteurs locally that the way the Labour Party in government has decided to build is undersized. But now that we're trying to build a road with a standard that's forward-looking, it's not just a few hundred million, but billions. It's wasted money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2241	I hear the Council of State defends the cost increase in the project. The line E18 Ruggtvedt – Dørdal is part of the expansion portfolio of Nye Veier AS. One of the reasons for the government parties to set up New Roads was to ensure a more coherent and comprehensive development, and today we have got some of the answer. Now we see that the distance from Langangen to Dørdal is not to be extended as a continuous and uniform distance, but that New Roads chooses ‘to expand the distance in two steps’, as it says in the proposition. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the intentions of a more coherent development?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2248	Many of the questions and challenges the Labour Party has served the government when the Workers' Party is in opposition bear the mark of being like the Brazilian football coach after they lost 7-1 for Germany in the semifinals of the World Cup. Even if they lost 7–1, they're scaring Germany not to win with 8-1 or 9-1. I find, therefore, that the Labour Party did not have proposals even for a longer parsell. They didn't have another option. The head of this section says in båg.no that they are also running the section E18 Langangen–Dørdal through Porsgrund and Bamble, it is divided into two parcels, ‘however, we want to see these in context and seek to achieve an implementation where we can gradually ‘roll out’ the whole route as part of a complete development. Therefore, this section now provides us with a unique opportunity to demonstrate in practice what is possible’. We are already implementing what the representative wants. But instead of waiting to have the entire stretch of land decided on, I think it makes sense that we get started where we are now ready, and then the point is just to make sure to build the entire sections that were not yet in the NTP, in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2262	My question is as to what is the background for choosing a toll component in this project, which is two percentage points higher than that in the national transport plan attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2267	I'm going to work as hard as I can to bring down the toll charges in this project, so that they get lower than what is now available. In June last year in Stortinget, we put forward a rollover proposal proposing to change the tolling system in order to reduce tariffs. Unfortunately, we got a clear signal from the majority that they would not spend money on it. Both the Labour Party and the Center Party were even very clear that if more money were spent trying to cut tolls, they would vote against it and use the money to build more roads elsewhere. That's why it's a little weird when those who didn't want to be in and cut tolls last summer, now all of a sudden they're very busy -- apparently -- that the tolls are too high. So I hope that the Central Party and the Workers' Party next time they start to get involved in the level of tolls, actually also supports the government's proposal, where we added 400 million in the 2016 budget. NOK in order to cut tolls in different places. It signaled both the Labour Party and the Senter Party that they would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2272	The simple thing is often the best, and if one wants to reduce the toll, it is to increase the government contribution into the project. What's in this case is that there's a 2 percentage points difference, that's a higher toll part with this government. So the representative Jensen said earlier in the debate that this was the central party's fault. And then my question to the Council of State is, Is there this government or previous government that determines how high a government share it should be in the issues that are put before the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2279	I think everyone knows that a government rules on the basis of the signals that a majority of the Stortinge give at all times. Today’s government tried to change those signals by presenting the toll proposition or the so-called toll reform. It didn't get a majority in the Storting. Once again, it's a little strange when some of the opposition parties try to make political coins that they mean, or give the impression that they think the tolls are too high, while at the same time they have voted against all attempts to change the system, even though they vote against all attempts to grant more money to cut the level of tolls. So I want Geir Pollestad, when dealing with the cases, to believe the same thing he thinks when the cases are not dealt with, and to support the government's proposal to cut tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2284	Some of the things that will affect the total interest cost of tolls are the timing of government funds coming in. When the company Nye Veier was presented at the NRK debate, it was shown that one would receive 5 billion. kr in the first year. The fasitator said it was 1.3 billion. kr. Is it the case that when E18 Ruggvedt-Dørdal is involved, a first toll loan is to be raised, and the government contributions from New Roads are to come to the end of the construction period, which will help increase the interest cost of the project, or will the government money come first in the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2290	It is actually up to the company Nye Weier to dispose of. Those who have the appropriations are those who have the full right to finance this within the limits decided by the Stortinge. But I notice that the representative Pollestad again starts talking about the level of interest, etc., things that one didn't even do anything special about when one was in government, where the representative Pollestad was State Secretary, but which one has suddenly become very concerned about when one no longer has responsibility or influence. The last time the representative Pollestad had very many views on this, was when we put down the tariffs at E18 through Vestfold, where the representative Pollestad's government had accepted bomb charges up to NOK 100 in total, but where today's government has put bomb charges at a maximum of NOK 57 in total. According to TV 2 notices with the representative Pollestad, this would extend the amortisation period and significantly increase interest costs. All the numbers now show that because the tariffs were lowered, the traffic has increased so much that we have more revenue than planned. Ergo: The representative Pollestad was wrong, today's government strategy was so far very correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2297	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2302	Now, when I take the floor, it's because I need to comment on the post by the representative of the Progress Party Hege Jensen and the Council of State. Both the representative Jensen and the Council of State choose to use almost their entire contribution to talk about the Labour Party's policy. I'm also going to take the opportunity to do that now. The representative Jensen obviously has such a good overview of the Labour Party's policy that it is almost tempting to invite the representative, and to the extent that the Council of State, to send a text message, SMS, to 2377 – as a new member of the Workers' Party. So the Labour Party in Stortinget voted against an interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans. It's because we think it's a bureaucratic system that has a lot more paper movement in it than it really would be just to grant money right from the Stortinget. If you want more money to build a roadway, the most appropriate way is to give money directly to the road projects without inventing some bureaucratic double-sided system. So granting money directly to the road can be done by both the government and the government. Governments have full freedom to propose a toll proposition with a higher government share if they so wish. He doesn't need the decision of the Storting to do that. For the 2016 State Budget, the Labour Party proposed to allocate 500 million. kr more to go than the government does – to the highway. Then the money for Nye Veier is not part of it. We also proposed to allocate 600 million. to the county councils in order to provide them with more money to operate and maintain the county roads. It is that the national roads get 1000 kroner per metre for operation and maintenance, while the county roads get 133 kroner per metre. It's developing an A-layer and a B-layer, the highways and the county roads, because the government's failing the county roads the most. So the working party will give more money to highways and county roads than the government does. I am still happy that this route in Telemark is now being built. But there is a need to clarify some facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2311	The previous speaker said it was important to clarify some facts. I believe that, too, because I believe that previous speakers should take a phone call to their own party rapporteur in the municipality of Bamble on the issue of postponing construction in order to wait for the entire Langangen-Dørdal section to be expanded. Then I think she gets a clear answer that no politicians or people living in the municipality want a postponement of the E18 Ruggtvedt-Dørdal. For this reason, the local population, politicians and everyone else at the local level are very happy that the decision is now being made to extend the Rangvedt–Dørdal route, and that it has been clearly stated for the first time that the Langangen–Ruchtvedt route should also be extended. There is nothing concrete about it in the NTP that the red-green government adopted just over three years ago. When you try to talk about money, about how much you've given, and why it's cost growth, I think this distance is a good example of how things can happen. When you decided to add this to NTP, you added 3.6 billion. kr for the entire distance from Langangen to Dørdal. So now the cost of just this distance is probably less than half the cost, because you also have to build a bridge between Langangen and Ruggtvedt. At that time, the cost was 3.6 billion. kr. Here's a project for almost 4.5 billion. kr. I would like to see this project be built without tolls. That's what the Progress Party wants, and that's what we're working to do, but there's a large majority in this room who want it to be tolls. I think it's good to remember that from the red-green government, a 50/50 solution was created on the projects where it was possible. So here it's 40 pst. It's a decrease. In addition, you get a more traffic-proof road than with the red-green government, because they would have 100 km/h, and they would have narrower road debts. I am glad that this government does not bet on the road project of the past, but actually bets on the road project of the future by building real standards when you first do it. I have been on the local council for 24 years, it is 22 years since I first agreed to deal with this matter. Today, after 22 years, we're going to put an end to this and make sure that the expansion is adopted. That's crazy good, and I'm really glad we're there now. There has been an accident-prone distance, there has been a lot of queues – now the solution comes, now you get a solution. This is a day of joy for everyone who uses this way. That's why I'm glad we're now getting this decision on a really modern, forward-looking path.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2322	I'll just point out some obvious strange things. The Labour Party believes that we were just talking about the Workers' Party. That's enough to be a little self-absorbed. We spent a lot of time, at least I think, talking about how important this road is for the development of infrastructure. But we pointed out some things that are not related to the Labour Party's criticism, and it's possible it's the only working party that can hear. But I think it's a little strange when the Workers' Party says that now it's developing an A-layer and a B-layer on the roadside. The A team are the highways, which are thus being reduced for the first time in many decades, while the B team is the county roads, where one cannot reduce the maturity, according to the Workers' Party. Well, with a little bit of historical insight, one could say that now we have at least an A-layer on some of the road sections. When the representative Tung's party was in government, it was obviously only B-layer, because then the decay increased on both highways and county roads. So it's not like that money was taken from county roads and given to highways, but the maturity increased in all sectors, including on the railways, when the representative Tung's party was running. Then it's a little interesting to see that as soon as you get a bourgeois majority in the Grand Council, you can make the highways a "A" team. Maybe we should have a civil majority in a little more county municipalities, so that the county roads were also made an A-layer. Because it is now the case that the appropriations for county roads above the State budget are higher than those provided by the Workers' Party in the National Transport Plan. This does not mean that less money is allocated than the Workers' Party had planned, it is granted more. I'm glad it's now a confession that there's at least one A-layer now, on the highway side. Then it is also very fun that the Workers' Party in the opposition has seen the need to adjust the appropriations for the road. But I find that while a person in the Committee on Transport gives the impression that suddenly a person has a lot more money for this, one sits in the Finance Committee and complains that the government spends 60 billion dollars. NOK too much oil money into the Norwegian economy. Then I wonder where to cut the 60 billion. The entire travel budget in 2016 is 60 billion. kr. That's exactly 20 billion. kr more than the last budget adopted by the representative of the Government of Tung – 20 billion. kr in increase – but it's 60 billion. kr that is used too much if the Workers' Party had been given control. And then it's interesting to see how much of the monopoly money disappears, not only in the transport sector, but also in the health sector, the justice sector, the school sector, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2337	I am very pleased that there is Labour Party-rule and red-green rule in very many of the county municipalities around. Because it turns out that after the county councils assumed responsibility for these roads, the county councils invest 146 pst. more to the county roads than when the same roads were state-owned. This shows that the red-green politicians around the country take a considerable responsibility, even though the government is far from giving enough money to the county municipalities. Yes, the government allocates more money to the states, but you don't grant so much that you take pay and price increases into account. Ergo must actually cut it in the county municipalities. More money is not spent on the operation and maintenance of the county roads because the government grants money. More is used for the operation and maintenance of the county roads because the red-green politicians out there take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2344	Some try to present it as if you think it's not a happy day. Of course, we all think it's a pleasure day when we can start new road projects. That someone is trying to tell another story, doesn't last, based on the case as it exists. Then there are some claims here that I also want to comment on – and we can take a long discussion about who is self-absorbed with regard to discussion about the road, without going any closer to it. First of the project Nye Weier AS. The Labour Party is still insisting that it is a red tape, that it is costly. We received a response to the latter when it came to the management fees – i.e. 30-40 pst. higher than if we had organized it in the state road system. There's nothing to suggest that New Roads couldn't have been solved that way the Workers' Party said it, without creating a new company that's outside political democratic governance, because that's what's the fact. Then you stand here and boast that you see results from New Roads. There is nothing to suggest that these projects could not have been solved if you had not had New Roads. So that's also a statement. So Hoksrud tried with a populist case that we're capable of doing a project where we only have 40.6 pst. toll financing. That's exactly what Pollestad said: originally, it was 38.6 pst. It was not that when we presented our transport plan, all the projects were there with 50 pst. toll financing – on the contrary. It could be 80 pst. It could be 10-15 pst. So it's also a direct crazy statement made in this debate. So it's like, if you like it or not, that after all, it's about. 600 million. kr more in tolls on this section than was planned throughout this project. You can't get away with that either. Then I think the representative Jensen when we discussed this matter, should look into where the Workers' Party stood when it came to calculating the interest rate. I think she mixes things up a little bit about what's going on, and what's going on about interest compensation, like Karianne O. Tongue so clearly explained that we were against, and why. In the case of a calculation technical interest rate, there is no hocus pocus. In the projects that were solved before, and that are being solved today, the sum is the same. That's just the way we demand it, which is different. For then and so many dollars are going into a road project, and if it is taken in over a few years or many years, the sum is going to be the same in relation to the rate. What happened before is that if there was more traffic, the projects were closed earlier. That was not how the drivers had to pay more. But we've said all the time that we're taking down interest and releasing funds, it has to be possible to see if it's wise to use these released funds more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2361	This is a joyous day for those who use the road, and for those who need the road in order to travel safely. But it is also a joyous day for the Advancement Party. We experience a solid political shift. So I look forward to discussing toll reform again in Stortinget later – where the Central Party and the Workers' Party now agree that we have to make it cheaper for the drivers. I really look forward to that. The party of progress has won. We have been alone in the fight against tolls for many, many years. Now it seems like it's getting closer to a majority who don't want to get tolls. Karianne Tung from the Workers' Party says she is happy that the red-greens rule in the counties and municipalities. I am from Westfold County, and we can take a little refreshment: Under the red-green government it would cost 116 kroner to drive through Westfold. A red-green garnish felt it was completely ok. There was then a civil assembly that negotiated with beaks and claws against the red-green government, and got the bet down to 87 kroner – during hard fights. With new blue government, civil government, it costs 57 kroner. Had we had red-green rule there, it would have cost 116 kroner – for it seemed to be quite okay. The most important thing now is that the Center Party and the Workers' Party have a touching interest in discussing tolls, and we are pleased about that in the Advancement Party. We welcome future debates. I'm glad that these parties take the drivers seriously and make it cheaper for business and people the most, so that we can finance roads in other ways. So a little bit we should bring with us the facts before we discuss whether you're happy with one thing or another. I'm most happy for the drivers and for the future that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2374	I think it's important to bear in mind that the cost growth that has been coming was also from the NTP that the red-green adopted, and up to the action programme, and practice under the red-green government was a 50-50 distribution of the costs that went beyond what was inside. So here the government hasn't done anything worse than what the previous government did. What I think is okay to bring with it is that someone is trying to pretend to be after eight years when you put yourself in government, now all of a sudden you've become very concerned that things should be built coherently, more completely, etc. It was many times during the eight years we challenged and wondered where it was of this continuous and more holistic expansion, and it actually didn't come at all. Just to make it clear how you have been doing: When we discuss this matter, it's okay to keep in mind that it's a happy day, and I have, as I said, been with you for 22 years and worked to get this case settled, and therefore it's very good to be there and adopt this today. But 20 years ago, about this time, Grenlandsbrua was built with one lane in each direction, and it was to be a forward-looking extension. So now you have to do that project again because it wasn't very forward-looking. It took eight to ten years, and then the traffic was so big that the road would be built like a quadruple road. That is why I am pleased that the red-greens are not sitting and are making a decision on this decision today, because then they had built a road that could only have a 100 km/h speed limit and with half a metre of road debt. Now you have a government that's both concerned with being forward-looking, and that's building a road with 3 meters of road debts, except on the bridges and in the tunnels, because it's getting a lot more expensive, and many have been busy with costs here, but that means we can have 110 kilometers per hour of speed limit and four-field highway standard. It's forward-looking, it does this government, and I know that I can stand here saying that the previous government would not have 110 km/h speed limit, because I myself asked questions to former Prime Minister Marit Arnstad who did not want to have a road that was forward-looking, at 110 km speed limit. I record that the representative tongue does not want to respond to what I challenged her, if she had contacted her own local politicians, when she was challenged that the Council of State should say that we should extend the entire route from Langangen to Dørdal, then it would mean a postponement on Rugtvedt-Dørdal. I'm glad you don't get a postponement, and in the case of future projects, I know that we have a government that looks at the possibility of expanding more holistically and more long-term into larger projects to reduce costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2387	The progress party reminds us all the time that they're against tolls, but they can't vote against tolls now because there's no majority for it in this room. In the last period there was also a majority in this room for tolls, but at that time they voted against tolls. So why in the world can't they keep doing that? The representative, Bård Hoksrud, and I were on the Transport Committee for four years, and I think in every toll case we had in the four years, he stood on this pulpit and said, "You're skinning and driving the cars." So my question is now: Is it like this that you no longer rip and rub the car lists in relation to tolls, or is it different when the Progress Party is in on it, or when they're trying to make it like they're still against it, but they still vote for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2396	I note that the representative of Hoksrud is so impressed with the offensive transport plan as the previous Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad said that he even called him Prime Minister. It's worth noting. Today's case is not about what happened when the toll reform was dealt with. It's not about what the previous government had to mean about tolls. It's about one thing: it's about a proposal from the Center Party here that wants to increase the government contribution by two percentage points and reduce the toll part by two percentage points in this project. It is true that if the government party – as has now been said that they are tired of bringing the Stortinget – votes in favour of the proposal of the Central Party, then there are multiples in this Chamber. The point is that the Progress Party must stop debtting everyone else. The progress party demands more toll than it has ever been in the history of Norway. Tolls indebtedness increases. There are new projects, and one is the most busy with flakes and stories about e.g. E18 through Westfold and some $116 toll bets, which were never close to becoming a reality. It's a good thing you've brought down the tolls on that project, but it's not possible to just extend the toll requirement more and more to reduce the rate. The easiest step is to increase the state contribution. That's what the Central Party has proposed in this case, and that's what we invite the Progress Party to adopt. They've been in government for three years. Now it is time to take responsibility for the policy that the government is pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2406	I'll try not to prolong this debate more than I have to. We get into a lot of themes here that go far beyond the toll proposition that is on the table. This applies, inter alia, to: the highways and their maintenance. I just notice that we are more there under this government than what was added under the previous government. I record that the Workers' Party and the representative Juvik are still critical and sceptical – to say it carefully – of the company Nye Vejer. I think it is remarkable that one has no new ideas and new ideas about how to organise the road sector when we see that the planning period is long, we are plagued with piecewise and divided development, the cost growth has been high, and it has been a long extension. Then it might be time we found new ways to think and new ways to organize this. I have great faith that New Veier AS can be such a tool that will actually give us faster both planning and development of important road projects. Now we start with three toll proposals before the summer, over 80 km by four-field road, road safety and long-distance long-distance road. This project is one of them. In addition, the project director of this project in Nye Veier has said that the remaining part of the Langangen-Dørdal route is under regulation and planning, and will be a natural continuation of it. Here's what it's all about to do for total expansion. Let's start now. We're not waiting for everything to be clapped and clear on the entire distance, but we're taking it in two steps. That, I think, is a sensible approach. A little to the calculation technical interest rate. It's a theoretical interest rate, as it is in the word. It was 8 pst. until 2012, so I have to correct myself a little. The previous government reduced it in 2012 to 6.5 pst. Now we've further reduced it to 5.5 pst. The theoretical interest rate does nothing but provide the basis for a proposal for a financing plan for the project to be submitted. What really matters is the actual interest rate – the interest rate that the project achieves in the market. If it is lower, we have the basis to either pay down the project faster or reduce the rates, or if it would be possible – or desirable as we saw on the Arendal–Tvedestrand section – look at the possibilities of actually adding further to the project. In this case, I hope that we get an interest rate in the market that actually gives us the opportunity to meet local wishes, namely to reduce toll charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2417	As telemarking, I have to say that it delights my heart that there is cross-political consensus in the Storting about the importance of expanding the E18 through Telemark. It's a long-term project, and it's a necessary project for accidents and not least traffic accidents, which that road represents, especially in the weekends of summer. So it's a pleasure day, and it's a great start that one starts with the distance that's inside. So there's no disagreement in the hall, and it's very good to note. I hear in the debate that someone is a little surprised that one allows himself to discuss a little bit about tolls in that situation. It's not that weird. Based on the promises of the Progress Party in the run-up to the elections, it is strange that a consensus is reached in the Stortinget on the development of an important road map, where one does so through a – let's say – proposition that facilitates toll collection. I haven't had anything against it in the past and have nothing against it now. I think it's very good. But I think it is important that the representatives of the Progress Party do not seem to be surprised that someone chooses to address it in such a case as this, because the Progress Party has one mantra for all that is evil and difficult, and that is the ‘period 2005–2013’. And in the autumn of 2013, before the election, the Progress Party knew very well what they were going to choose, and then they went to the choice that they guaranteed a toll-free Norway. I think it's in their place to remind them of that election vow every time it's made such a proposition. Even though the Progress Party is trying to cover up the fact that they do not have a majority in the government, it was nevertheless a guarantee and a promise that had no reservations about it, and that was full and complete recognition of a promise that they have not followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2424	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2427	I don't think I'm going to go into that debate – in one minute it's hard. But I want to give praise to all those who have stood on and worked hard to get to this project. There are many I would like to mention, both local politicians, state politicians and not least the local population, but I also think it is important to bring forward one of the action groups that have worked to really keep the pressure on this route: the E18 action group. They have also done an amazing job to ensure that this project finally comes into place, and they have wanted to get this road in place. And then at least it's good to know that the starting point for this government is that the old road is going to be toll-free, and that was also one of the challenges that there was discussion about when the proposition came along. But now the government has decided that the idea is not to collect tolls here, unless there is a very special need for it. I would like to thank all those who have really stood by and made sure that this road is now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2434	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2448	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from the member of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2455	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its constructive and good work on this proposition. In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport presents a proposal for toll financing on the E6 Kolomoen-Moelv route in Hedmark. The road section is 42.7 km and its extension is to be carried out within an economic framework of 9.5 billion. 2016-kronor. Within the framework there is a risk premium of 11 pst. The expansion will take place under the direction of New Veier AS. New Weier AS was established last year as a new state infrastructure company, and the mandate is to look at how we can build infrastructure in a reasonable and efficient way in the future. The Column–Moelv is one of five assigned sections in their portfolio. The Colomo – Moelv is fully regulated in the municipalities of Stange, Hamar and Ringzag. The development of E6 can be started quickly by New Weger AS and the route is planned to open up for traffic in 2021. This is an important main roadway northwards towards Trondheim, which connects the South-East to the Middle and North Norway. This is a trafficked road bill how much freight and short-distance traffic will enjoy increasing capacity and efficiency. Development will increase capacity, but will also ensure social security – this is because this road section is currently subject to an accident burden. Since 2005, 17 people have been killed in traffic between Colomen and Moelv. It will be very good with four-field road versus today's two-field with middle parts. As it is today, the two-field path provides some challenges for the call-out vehicle and the blue light state. In the proposition, the ground four-field standard is added to the entire distance, at 110 km/h, except for the intersections between Kåterud and Vien. The Committee agrees that a uniform speed limit throughout the route is a better option than 110 km/h, 100 km/h and 110 km/h. New Veier AS has confirmed that all requested deviations are approved for the speed limit of 110 km/h between Hamar and Ringsacks, and this facilitates the speed limit of 110 km/h throughout the route from Colomen to Moelv. The Committee endorses the proposal's toll approach, but the majority clearly states that the government is requested as soon as possible, and at the latest in the 2017 government budget, to assess other alternative devices in order to achieve lower financing and collection costs in line with the intention of the toll reform. Reduction of the calculation technical interest rate and assessment of government loans for established and new toll projects are part of the assessment. Point 5 of the local policy decisions makes it clear that, in the event of an increase in the scope for economic action, this is desirable to be used at lower rates. The Committee shares the local policy position and believes that any increased scope for action on the project will benefit the drivers – it will be through lower tariffs or reduced amortisation time. In addition, the Committee is aware of the fact that the general rule of the ministry that no cross-roads bombs are to be set up is the basis. I am therefore pleased that through this we send a clear signal that, if the traffic leak becomes too high, action should be considered in retrospect. In view of this, it is therefore very important that we make it clear that we will open up the possibility of removing the proposed toll sections on the side roads if it is desirable to do so locally. The municipalities guarantee the loan, and it is therefore important that this be done in dialogue with them. On behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right, I would like to make a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the county council, which is the guarantor of the loan, in order to assess the need for side-by-side bombs. 84 at Snaud and Rud Heights.’» Finally, I recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2488	The representative Hege Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2491	Let me begin by thanking the members of the Committee and the rapporteur for a good and constructive cooperation. E6 Kolomoen–Moelv in Hedmark is one of the main road links between the East and Middle Norway and also further up to North Norway. Today's road has varying standards, and unfortunately there have been many serious accidents on the route. Since 2005, 17 people have been killed in road accidents involving E6 between Colomoen and Moelv. Twelve of these accidents, i.e. 70 p.m., were meeting accidents. Unfortunately, the size can't do so much with what's happened, but hopefully we can do a lot for those who are going on this route in the future. In addition to high passenger traffic, the route also consists of a lot of commercial and freight traffic. All of these will have great joy in increasing and improving the capacity and efficiency of the route. The road shall be built for 8,5 billion. kr, of which the toll ratio is 52 pst. It is a unanimous committee that today wants to pave the way for the fastest possible construction of the road. And to all those who have stood on this road, it's time to say, "Congratulations with the day!" Of course, the Labour Party believes that it makes sense to look at the calculation technical interest rate on the toll loan, both in this project and in other projects. It will open up lower tariffs, shorter downtime or an extension of the project, which will provide more money. A unanimous increase is therefore due today to give this signal of a lower calculation technical interest rate to the Minister of Transport and the Government. In this case, in the event of an increased economic space, the Workers' Party will pay particular attention to two aspects. Firstly, local authorities have a special desire to look at the level of the bomb tariffs if that is the case. Secondly, a lower calculation technical interest rate also provides an opportunity to remove the boom on the cross-roads, e.g. 84 At Snarud and Berghögda, which the working party of the Stortinget supports. We know that there will still be a need for more on the main route between East and Middle Norway and further up to North Norway. In fact, in the current national transport plan, the size has placed great emphasis on continuing the development of E6 as a non-conference road northwards from Colomoen. This is particularly important because large parts of the route on the existing two-field road between Oslo and Trondheim have low safety. In this context, the Labour Party will therefore also take the opportunity to point to the needs of E6 south of Trondheim. Ergo will not be the last time we have issues about E6 for treatment in Stortinget, fortunately. But today it's about the distance from Colomo to Moelv, and the message from Stortinget is ready: Start building a road. The Labour Party will also support proposal No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party, to assess the need for side-by-side bombing Eighty-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2512	Then we're going to deal with the last toll proposition on this side of the summer. In the same way as E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand and E18 Ruggvedt-Dørdal, as we dealt with in the previous case, E6 Kolomoen-Moelv is a project to be developed by Nye Veier AS. With the risk of repeating myself – this is probably an important motorway project that, together with the other two projects on E18, represents a total expansion of over 81,5 km by motorway, at a total cost of 18.6 billion. kr. The development company Nye Veier AS is doing well to deliver on the start-up portfolio, and we have great hopes and expectations for the rapid and effective implementation of the projects. I record, not least from the previous debate, that the Workers' Party and the Centre are still very critical of Nye Veier – and opposed its creation. In a recent press release, the representative Rommetveit called this an urgent reform that is poorly investigated. After all, it must be a cross-reference for critics that important projects now have a faster start-up and implementation than was foreseen in the national transport plan. E6 Komoloen–Moelv was planned in the National Transport Plan 2014–2023 until Brumunddal. Now we're building Moelv. The project was not fully funded during the current NTP period. Now it has to be done in 2021, so before it was planned to start under the red-green rule. This shows that it's useful to think new. The project, as described in the proposal, is extensive. It includes 42.7 km of continuous construction of a four-field road with a centre part and a speed limit of 110 km/h. This will mean a reduction in travel time, improved accessibility and increased road safety – to the delight of all on the road. I will not go into all the details of the project, but I will comment on some important issues. In the proposition, there was a base bomb on the lateral path, i.e. fv. Eighty-four. It is to avoid traffic leakage and loss of income. As a general rule, we believe that we should seek to avoid bombs on side roads, but see that it may be necessary in some places. As an alternative to putting a bomb on fv. Therefore, we ask the Ministry immediately to assess whether it might be appropriate to expect toll collection on a side-by-side basis, and rather to follow the situation closely and assess the need when we see the extent of traffic leakage. Such an assessment must, of course, be made in close dialogue with the county council, which will be the guarantor of the toll loan. In the light of the opinion delivered by Hedmark County, it may appear that there is a basis for such a scheme. However, we cannot support the proposal of the Centre Party in this matter. Since the professional authority recommends a side-by-side bomb, a possible alternative solution must be established in a dialogue between the department and the county. I have trouble understanding that the Center Party wants a different practice, all the time it's actually the county municipality that's going to guarantee the toll loan and that's taking the financial risk. We have raised questions about the number of departures and crossings planned on the route. Just past Hamar, five exits are planned. We therefore believe that the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with New Vejer AS and local authorities, should assess whether it is appropriate to reduce the number of off-roads and crossings. It will be an important measure to reduce the costs of the project, while providing for more efficient traffic management. At the same time, it is important that such an assessment does not weaken the progress of the project. If it was to be demonstrated that any reduction in the number of off-runs affects the progress in the negative sense, the project should be run as planned. In this proposition, too, we're going to have a discussion of the computational interest rate. That being said, we are pleased that this discussion is coming up, and that there is a large number of people who want to contribute to lower rates and shorter downtime. It is quite common in all toll proposals that the Ministry of Transport is empowered to agree more closely on the financial instrument. Should it show that there is a basis for using a lower interest rate than the one used in the proposition, it provides an opportunity to look at the toll rates. I record that this is also in accordance with the local requirements. We provide this proposition with a good basis for the rapid and effective implementation of the E6 Colomoen-Moelv project. The project has been expanded in relation to what is contained in the national transport plan, and with this organisation we ensure a previous start and a faster opening of a new and secure four-field road.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2538	The proposed extended route Colomen–Moev on E6 is a very important trajectory for both nutrition and movement in general. The route has had a very large number of serious road accidents, and since 2005 17 people have been killed on the route, most of which have occurred as a result of meeting accidents. It is therefore gratifying that this 42.7 km route can now be expanded as a continuous four-field road, and, as already pointed out, with completion in 2021, the route is opened before it was actually planned to start up in the NTP. We thus get a significant acceleration of an important project. Also in this project, as well as in the Tvedestrand-Arendal section of E18, there is reason to expect a market interest rate lower than the 5,5 pst calculation technique. – yes, with the public guarantees of this type of project, everything suggests that the level of interest rates can be significantly lower. If there is evidence of a lower interest rate without a derogation from the requirement for a robust financing plan, good opportunities can be created to meet the wishes of the county councils and the municipalities concerned for lower rates, possibly shorter amortisation periods. We assume that the department and county councils will be able to agree on this. Then there is reason to reflect also in this project on the cost development that road development has been over the last ten years. It is therefore necessary to look at the possibilities for reducing costs in all major road projects in the future. That type of assessment should include, inter alia: the number of crossings as well as other measures that can make road development more cost-effective. There is reason to recall that while costs have increased sharply in Norway, our neighbouring country in Sweden currently has a clearly lower cost of comparable tillage development, although it is easier to build a road in Sweden. That assessment has also been taken into account. Therefore, it is important, in the Christian People's Party's view, that New Veiger is able to achieve a tribal road development that can help to dampen the galloping cost development we have had over time. There is a need to look at several measures that can contribute to a lower cost increase. Therefore, it is important, in my view, that New Roads also have the tools at their disposal to enable the company to build the road in the most cost-effective way possible, e.g. in the future. the possibility of adjusting approved plans in cooperation with the counties, municipalities and departments concerned in order to implement them in the most rational way possible. It should be part of the opportunities and tools we give the company. The location of side-path tolling stations shall have specific reasons for providing understanding and legitimacy, and no one disagrees that the general rule is that, as far as possible, it should be avoided. When one still opens here to be able to do it on fv. 84, it is about the rejection power that E6 toll stations could generate with associated increased traffic and road traffic challenges. If you choose to place toll stations on side roads, which can be the result here, it is important that you also spend money on actions on this side road, which can help to increase road safety on which the boom is placed. The Christian People's Party believes that it may make sense, as we write in our remarks, to consider whether the measures on the sideways of this matter can be assessed after the opening of the new route. That is why the Christian People's Party also supports proposal No. 2, which has been promoted by High Jensen on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2555	When the Central Party got the Minister for Transport in 2005, it was a high priority for us to develop E6. The then Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete went in and overthrew the Road Directorate and began the road development from the Colomoes in the north and from the Gardermoes in the south. And then it stayed a little bit in the middle, because it wasn't fully regulated. Then there was a big discussion about the route that was going to go between the two built-in, but a common project – one was to build up the Dovre track in parallel with the construction of the four-field E6. It became a huge project, when one sees the two parallel. This has led to the opening of the double-track railway, 17 km in 2015, and to the expansion of the E6. The fact that you saw it together, that you saved a lot of money, because you moved a lot from E6 down to the railway. What was amazing when that debate went on in December 2011 was that the Right wanted to postpone the whole case and wanted all objections to be re-examined. Then one lost that vote, and then they tried again, the same day, to put the matter to the test. Had the Right got through for it, the route had not been built, and it had not been completed now. So I think it's good that the Right now has been occupied with progress. The progress party then wanted to take out the double track, and that one would just be betting on expanding the E6. It would also be very unwise, but the fact that you did it together has given us a much cheaper and much better project. For the projects we had from Gardermoen to Minnesund, there is no bomb on any side road. Neither is there a bomb on any side road from Minnesund to Colomoen. Until now, there has been no crossroads bomb in this four-field E6 project, so for the first time in this north-facing development, there will be a side-way bomb. It's when the Progress Party sits in government and Tor André Johnsen sits in committee, that we start getting tolls sideways. It's very strange, when one sees what the Progress Party promised in the election campaign, and what was also promised in Ringsacht, by the fact that tolls were called highway robbery by the representative Johnsen in the election campaign in Hedmark. But now there's tolls on the side way. Even when the red-green fell, there was no toll on the sidewalk. So there's something new that's invented by the Right and Advance Party. That is why we included in the vote that we did not want that way of withdrawing money. In particular, one in the proposition sees that at the toll point on Berghögda only, according to the proposition, a reduction in annual traffic of 100 cars is to be achieved. So it's a clean collection of money, but it has no effect on traffic base. We think it's unwise. That is why we are going to support the alternative proposal to the Right and the Progress Party, even if they would not support us, where we in some way rejected the whole issue, but we are going to go further in favour of the Right and the Progress Party's proposals. Then there's another thing that's important in this debate, because it was promised in the election campaign that you could build this toll-free. If one reads the proposition now, it's going to cost $8.5 billion. kr to build the four-field road from Colomen to Moelv. The proposition states that ‘gross toll revenue is therefore expected to be about 8.7 billion. kr’. So if one reads the proposition, there's a expectation that toll revenue is going to be higher total when one takes the collection costs, than it's building the road. If I had accused the Party of Advancement of that in the election campaign, they would have said that it was fraud and terror propaganda, but that is what is now the proposal of the Progress Party and the policy of the Progress Party. So actually, the Progress Party should apologize for having tricked all the voters in Hedmark, because they promised something completely different. Then we in the Center Party are very happy that one gets built four-field road, we think it's right to build four-field road, and we've been a pusher all the way to building infrastructure northwards, which we think is a wise decision, but we think the results that lie here, that we want to burden sideways harder, are completely new in this project, and we think it's an unwise policy. That's why I hope there's going to be a new round, and there's going to be a majority for now, at the last minute. At least that's positive. Then it's good for our county that we see big and heavy transport investments and traffic through Hedmark, and it was Liv Signe Navarsette that started. I take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2570	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2573	I think there were many good points from the previous speaker, which represent Hedmark in an excellent way. But we would like to submit and promote another proposal for the vote later today, because we believe that we should start a three-field road with the middle parts instead of a four-field highway. I want to say that in terms of the distance from Hamar and northwards – I have a wife from Moelv – I know that route well, I know both the route and the route in a proper way. My honest opinion is that building out four-field roads the way we do now, in places where there's no need for it, is wrong. So it's like we end up in the rather sad situation that we're now giving full priority to the highway, the four-field highway, northwards past Hamar faster than we have the rollout of double tracks northwards to Lillehammer. We also see from the transport modes that it is not obvious that we get that progress on the intercity development northwards to Lillehammer, which was a very clear assumption from the previous round. It's great if the government can comment on what he thinks about it, if he doesn't just say that we have to come back to this in the national transport plan. My opinion is that if we had made sure to build more wooden roads instead of four roads, we would achieve two important things. One thing is that of course we had saved money. Of course, if you build a cheaper path, if you choose to build a cheap solution instead of an expensive solution, you have one of two results: either you will be able to build the road further for the same money, or you will be able to reduce the toll collection. This is why I believe that the Council of State is the king of tolls, because when you consistently choose the most expensive solutions to all the expansions and don't make sure to bring down the toll, you end up with a much, much higher total toll collection. Therefore, annual toll records are also set under the Progress Party Government. I think it was polite points from the previous speaker when he went through the budgets. I really don't need to say anything other than this. This is how Stortinget connects in many ways to some of these projects. We have the national transport plans, but very, very many of the decisive choices made by the government before they come to the final decision here now, and therefore I feel that the right way to show what we mean is by promoting an alternative proposal for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2584	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2588	This is probably an important road map that is now finally being adopted. Many here have already pointed out that people have been waiting too long to get the road in place — the greater the joy of making the decisions. It is important to improve capacity, increase road safety, reduce travel time due to shorter travel distances, but not least to increase the speed limit and thus improve accessibility. Connecting housing and working areas strengthens business. At the same time, it is not stated that this would always happen. The previous speakers just showed why things didn't have the progress they should have, because while today's majority agree that four-field highways are good, it's obvious that internally in the previous government college it wasn't given – on the contrary. It also explains why one spent four years arguing about where the road was going – would it go through a nature reserve area or would it not? Even when one decided to do so, one opened up for new four years with discussions about how to replace the area of nature reserve with the area outside. The internal eternal seminars cut through the majority of today and made sure that the decisions were taken and extra money was allocated to speed up planning, just so that we can stand here and make the decisions. There are too many road plans that have remained just that – road plans. In fact, the 1962 national motorway plan is a key example of how one has had an offensive government, but which did not implement what it was supposed to do. Now we get the decisions, and that's good. It means something to the business community and to the population when an infrastructure that works, when one has turned decades of decay on the roads to actually now that the roads are in better condition at the end of the year than when the year began. It does something for the sense of security, it does something for the will to invest in business. And we're going to keep doing that. I am also very proud that we are now starting to see the clear results of having better organized the road sector, that we have enabled the Road Administration to make faster and clearer decisions, that they have better means of making many good priorities, but also that we have got a company, New Roads, that can become a specialist in building these types of road sections, and that does it by thinking about longer distances. Then we'll get more for the money, and over time we'll have to do something about the cost increase that's increased too much for years. I fully agree with those who say that we should avoid tolls on side roads, yes, I represent a party that wants to avoid tolls altogether. But I find that those who are now most eager to say that they are skeptical about tolls are the parties that also assumed that this route should have the toll financing that we now have, and who voted against when the government proposed changes to the tolling principles, precisely because we wanted to reduce the toll level, but did not get a majority in favour of it. It would have been very nice if there was a link in the budgetary procedures each year with that one also argues for when the individual road section is adopted. I note that some representatives from the opposition do not understand what it means to compromise. When the Progress Party is in government, we have actually signed an agreement where everyone gets a say in it, but where one also has to adopt and accept things one is not for. It may be interesting for some of today's parties with which the Workers' Party is trying to smear, if the Sønsterud's approach to reality is going to apply, where no compromise binds anyone. We are proud of what we get from the Progress Party, because this government has managed to build both more roads and more railways than one has done before, and with a lower toll ratio overall than what was originally planned. We're going to work on it. We do not need a separate decision in Stortinget, but I am glad that Stortinget still confirms that we have powers to try to reduce toll tariffs and see if it is possible to do anything about where toll stations are put, not least on side roads. But then I also hope that the parties that now argue not to have tolls on side roads will make sure that their state politicians support it, because when we have tried to move to toll stations on side roads on E16 to Kongsvinger, the local politicians of the Workers' Party have stopped it, because it is those who are responsible for the guarantee. So I hope there's a communication between national politicians and state politicians in the parties that are now showering with the springs, and not that it'll once again be a thing where one in this debate is trying to annoy today's government with making reminders without even fighting for it. It's a lot more tidy if you get a political debate where one argues in line with what one also fights for, instead of being against cutting tolls, but argue that others should make it clear. It's about securing a majority. But today I'm glad that we're actually getting another project adopted, even more motorway, even better regional development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2607	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2610	The size is currently dealing with several large toll proposals – and that is good. In these toll propositions we see that tariff class 2 is treated differently from the proposition to the proposition. At the E6 Kolomoen–Moelv, a truck pays twice as much as a passenger car, at the E18 Ruggvedt–Dørdal, a truck pays three times as much as a passenger car, and on the Arendal–Tvedestrand route, the corresponding fare is two and a half times the fare of a passenger car – i.e. three different loads for the same truck depending on where you drive in the country. My question is this: why does the Council of State deal with commercial and freight traffic in this way, and why does the Council of State not coordinate the tariff system more closely in the propositions it makes, when the Storting has actually decided that that should happen? And I make it clear that we are talking about the present and the future and not about the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2617	I understand that the representative does not want to be reminded of historical facts about what his own party has done when they put in government. We've tried to coordinate as much as possible. We have presented a toll reform to the Stortinget, which the Labour Party unfortunately chose not to support. However, there are basic professional estimates as to what the level of tolls should be, and what tariffs should be on different routes — depending on what the willingness to pay is, and depending on what kind of re-routing options exist. That's what's at stake, and it's not that much different than what it's been before. I want to change it, so that the level of tolls goes down, because we know that having tolls is building an economic barrier that makes part of those who should have used the road choose not to use it. It's exactly the same principle that the Labour Party in Oslo uses to prevent people from entering the city, when they increase heavily the tolls here. So I think the Workers' Party is aware of the mechanism. I represent a government and a majority who want to reduce the toll burden on the drivers, and I hope that the Workers' Party will be there to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2626	I stress that the Workers' Party is to coordinate the tariff and discount systems, so that's what they say. I almost have to ask again: why does the Council of State not use the opportunity to coordinate the tariff system in the propositions for which he himself is responsible and submit to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2633	I just explained that. I pointed out that the Road Service did its calculations and made its recommendations. What's interesting, on the other hand, is that the Workers' Party asks a lot of questions where they give the impression that they disagree with what is being adopted, but they don't have any alternative suggestions themselves. It would have been interesting if the Workers' Party actually promoted their views and argued for them instead of adopting all that others are suggesting, but nevertheless give the world the impression that they would want things to be very different.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2640	Yes, we do not agree to adopt everything else, as the minister himself has pointed out. Road freight transport represents a significant part of road traffic and, in order to ensure that toll collection is as efficient as possible and that we get as much money as possible, a mandatory toll bar with advance payment is an important instrument. The Council of State even participated in the transport conference at Lillestrøm last week, where he supported the introduction of a pre-payment of the toll. My question is then: When can this pre-payment be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2647	Prepaid bombers – if we first have tolls, it is important that everyone in the business world pays, so we avoid competitive advantages for someone compared to others. Making sure you get a better system is something the Progress Party has fought for too long, even though we've had as our primary point of view that the tolls should go away. We have recorded that under the previous government we got nowhere with this. During today's government we have made sure that we get a setup that actually requires bombing on all commercial vehicles. Then we have explained many times, both in this room and in debates where the representative tongue has been present – and I hope she has noticed it – that we want to do it as quickly as possible. But there are actually some technical challenges in the system, as I've also explained earlier, that have made us not actually got a new computer system in place in line with what we wanted. We can't actually conjure up a computer system when those who were going to program it for us have not been able to do it for themselves. But we're going to get it in place as soon as technically possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2654	Do I understand correctly that the Council of State is opposed to what he has put forward in his own proposition that there should be a side-by-side bomb on Bergshögda and Snarad?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2659	I am proud that we are a government that will have lower toll tariffs in general. We've reduced the toll percentage. We're also open to being able to further reduce it. At the same time, this is also the case, and I think the representative Schlagsvold Vedum knows after sitting in the government itself, that there are a number of professional reasons why, when a first person should have, for example. tolls, how to do so so as to minimise the burden and make it feel as fair as possible. If I get a majority in the Storting, I'm more than willing to remove tolls both here and there. I record that so far, the representative of the Battle of Vedum and others have voted against granting money for toll cuts and voted against the toll reform we presented. But we feel ourselves, and we've probably been confirmed by suggestions, that we've been given powers all the way to see how we can reduce the toll burden. Some of the majority of today did relatively quickly after the government change, was just laying down some toll stations that the representative Battle Violence Vedum had been with and set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2666	If we go to one side and the toll point on Berghögda, it says in the proposition from the Council of State that it will have a traffic rejection of 2 pst. So it's going to go from 5,000 with bombs to 5,100 without bombs, it's going to be in the prototype. That's 100 that's going to be gone. It has no effect on local traffic, according to the Council of State's own proposal. Then it just becomes a mere collection of money. Does the Council of State think it wise to have a toll point on a side road where the traffic rejection is only 2 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2672	It has to be seen in the context that if one takes away the income it represents and does nothing else, then one has to increase the fares on the other roads considerably more, and then a few other effects can. So there's a context here in the total economy. I think it's very good when the centre party in the individual debates gives the impression that they would more than like to remove a toll station, but they don't do anything here to compensate for the lost revenue. That was what the government proposed both in the budget in 2016 and in the toll reform last June, to increase government funding for road projects in order to remove the toll point or to reduce the tariffs. We didn't get a majority for that. There has to be a relationship between what one argues with, and what one is actually willing to grant. I'm recording that that context doesn't exist when the Center Party argues here. Then it's only about being populist against toll stations like themselves, when they put in government and worked with the national transport plan, intended to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2677	The councils are standing here bluffing. The council stands here and says that the Workers' Party has not proposed mandatory pieces. I guess it was the previous government with the Workers' Party that worked hard to get it done, and it's also in the transport plan. If I am not mistaken, the Progress Party actually voted against the advance payment of these pieces. It actually proposed the Workers' Party when they were to be introduced. I remember very well from the marking outside Stortinget that the government was strongly criticized for not participating in that arrangement. It is a pleasure now if it is such that the government and the Council of State have turned around in this matter. But is it not correct that there was something about this in the transport plan, and that the Workers' Party proposed prepayment when this scheme came into place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2682	Before the President-in-Office of the Council of State Solvik-Olsen gets the floor, the President will only point out to Juvik that accusing a government council of bluffs from Stortinget's pulpit is not appropriate. That kind of expression can he use outside this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2685	I take it with a crushing calm, I've heard it many times before from the representative Juvik. The fact is, however, that yes, it is correct that the Workers' Party has said, but the point is that the Workers' Party has not done so. Norway’s Lastebileier-Federal Association has pointed out that for many, many years during the previous government they called for a pre-paid toll bar, but it was never delivered. It is a little strange that as soon as the Workers' Party is out of government offices, this is all of a sudden very simple, even though they know very well that today's government has started work just to get this in place. Unfortunately, when a conflict ends between the order and the supplier, where the pieces are technically not created and programmed, it is a little difficult for a government council to create a new computer system. All the way, our intention, and we have also started contracts, has been to get this delivered, precisely because it has been important. I wish the Workers' Party had started this order many years ago, if they themselves now believe it is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2692	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2697	I am pleased that today we are adopting the development of E6. That's good for Hedmark. The road is important for inland and an important transport year for Norway. It is – what to say – interesting to hear how the Progress Party and the Right now are brilliantly pleased that the road is being built further northwards. I was the author of the case when Stortinget adopted the joint project E6-Dovrebanen on 16 December 2011, the project was also mentioned in the statement by the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum. Since we have a Minister of Transport who is very concerned about history stories about the red-greens, and uses most of his posts in this room on it, I can also recall the development of that road, from Minnesund and northwards. It would not have been completed if the Advance Party and the Right had got it as they would – and I can also bring the Christian People's Party and the Left on board. The joint project, which had been planned, would not be part of the Progress Party. They wanted to go for a new round with the railroad track. And after ten years of planning, the Right stated that all objections and allegations about the matter should be discussed again. It was about economics, plan assumptions, other forms and the environment – and they got the Christian People's Party and the Left on their postponement proposal. Now we can all be happy that the proposal did not get a majority, and we can well conclude that this major transport project has been very successful. The progress party in Hedmark, which is today represented by Hege Jensen, who is also the rapporteur on the matter, was very confident in the election campaign, and guaranteed, without reservation on election results, the county's voters that there would be zero dollars in tolls only they came to power. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was totally inappropriate to go into a government if this didn't become a reality. For this, the main issue of the Progress Party was – more important than school, health and kindergartens – to mention something. So now there's more toll than ever before in the county. Then, in the previous debate, I got along with myself that the representative Jensen almost produced it as if the Workers' Party were a little bad for the Advance Party, who could at all criticise them for running from the election promises. I still allow myself to remember a couple of promises from the Advance Party in Hedmark in the election campaign: it would be a quick extension of the four-field road from Rena to Hamar. A continuous expansion of E16 from Klöfta to the Swedish border was also promised, and it was to be completed in 2017. At present, no one metre of road has been built in this landfill period, and even if the latter road is included in the NTP, it is now uncertain. Finally, the Council of State makes it clear that the Labour Party does not know anything about compromises and is not concerned about them either. That claim falls on its own unfairness. If the Council of State had followed in other debates and matters that are going on in this House, he would have soon discovered that the Labour Party is taking compromises much more seriously than the representatives of the Progress Party are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2710	Today is a great day for us who are excited to see new roads being built, and for all those who have worked to get E6 to move from Colomo to Moelv. E6 through Hedmark is important to us who live and work there, but it is also very important for anyone who goes on to both east and west and north and south. E6 through Hedmark binds the country together. This decision will make it safer to travel, speed up the pace of business and bring the regions closer together. Jobs are created in the construction phase, and domestic competitiveness is strengthened and all of us who use the road are quickly and safely returning home. This road section, as I said earlier, has had a very large number of fatal accidents. 17 people have lost their lives this way in the last few years. These are great tragedies for the families that are being affected, and it puts its mark on those who are walking on and around this road, which is so accident-affected. The number of meeting accidents has fallen since the introduction of a temporary system of middle-parties, and a new road is a completely necessary investment to improve road safety here. In addition, gamers are now in place, which is also important in our part of the country. A complete expansion of E6 Colomoen–Moelv has been a great wish for many of us and is one of the first projects to be built by the road company Nye Weier AS. The calculations in St.meld. No 25 for 2014–2015, On the right track, the routes Kolomoen–Brumunddal and Brumunddal–Moelv are two of the most socio-economically profitable routes to expand into the New Vee portfolio. In the NTP, which was presented by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV in 2013, this project was divided into two. The first stage, from Colomoen to Brumunddal, was not calculated to be fully financed until 2023. Now it's going to be done in 2021. The last eleven kilometers until Moelv wasn't prioritised in the same NTP at all. And now it's going to be done in 2021. This is a good example of the right and the government being right about the need for new ideas and better solutions. New Weier AS is such a new idea that provides better solutions. Now more comprehensive and coherent is being built, planning time is going down, and the budget for transport has increased dramatically. Believe it or not, we actually have queuing problems in the interior as well. Ringing stuff is Norway's largest cabin municipality, with Lake Süsjön. In addition, we are so lucky to have Trysil, Hafjell, White Mountain and other large cabin and tourist destinations. Today's decision means a comprehensive and strongly accelerated deployment of E6 through Hedmark. This is also a good example of how to organise road construction in a much better way than what we did before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2731	I would like to make a minor correction to the proposal tabled by the Right and the Advance Party. It shall be ‘Snarud and Bergshögda’, not ‘Snarud and Rudshögda’. So I'm asking that it be corrected. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to thank you for a very good debate on this matter – we have a cross-political agreement on the underlying. To what the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, tried to tell me, that we should go out and apologize for having tricked the voters in Hedmark: it is now such that the Progress Party is in principle against tolls. Therefore, in the proposal we have together with the Right, we have asked that the government go ‘in dialogue with’ the guarantor of the loan, the county council, ‘to assess the need for a bomb’. Of course, it is also about having respect for democracy and the local political decisions that are taken. For many years, it has been important to put in place a fully-fledged development plan for the E6 Colomoen–Moelv, not only for those of us living in the Hedeland but also for those who run goods, and for the rest of the world. The red-green and changing governments failed E6 simply. They were good at making plans, but not good at implementing them. Already in the 1960s, there were plans for four-field E6 for Lillehammer. The road was due in 1980. It's been a long process. It was necessary for the Progress Party in government and a Progress Party Council to clean up and ensure its implementation. Now it's going to be a four-field road. The red-green built the E6 slowly and irrationally. 66 km from Gardermoen to Colomoen took seven years, approx. 10 km per year in pieces and divided – in many parcels. Now we are building 42.7 km in a project. It is simply a joy day and a joy for all of Norway and the industry and the drivers – all – who might have to use it in the future. This road section has the red-greens had a lack of focus on, and it has been a scandal for Hedmark and Ringsakes. When Ringing matters are mentioned, it is precisely because the plans they had stopped in Brumunddal, and it was uncertain whether and when E6 might be implemented until Moelv. Failure to implement beyond Brumunddal would also result in all developments in Brumunddal being put on ice, since the adopted regulatory plan for E6 and Brumunddal were coherent. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2746	Time's up. The ‘height of the rod’ is then changed to ‘height of the mountain’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2751	There's an old script here -- it's not worth using the same thing, it's too boring. Just a small comment to the representative of the Battle of Vedum. I don't have any relation to the story he had here, but I'm dealing with what's adopted in the Storting. Adopted in Stortingen, the national transport plan is the national transport plan, and in the national transport plan it is close to the end of the current ten-year start-up of the Colomen–Brumunddal project. Now we're building from Colomoen to Moelv 42.7 km of four-field traffic-proof highway. The fact is that this project was not fully funded during the current 10-year period of NTP. What we're doing now is starting it up, and it'll be done before it was initially thought to start, based on the red-green NTP. So I can see nothing but that this must be a good story to tell the inhabitants of Hedmark. Now we're building four-field roads further, faster and more coherent than what was foreseen in the National Transport Plan. Unlike the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, who does not want to have a four-field road, I am pleased that we have three propositions adopted before the summer now to build a motorway – over 80 km with a four-field road – both on the E18 and on the E6.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2766	The next speaker is the representative of Tone Merete Sønsterud. And we've got the whole farm business and the reindeer agreement in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2771	I'm also here for a reason, and I also like to use this pulpit. It's almost impossible to believe when representatives from the Progress Party go up to this pulpit and say that the red-greens have failed E6 northward. So, as I said in my post, the Progress Party and the Right set in December 2011 and voted to postpone the entire project. If they had a majority, the way on which we're going to build now would not have been there once. Talk about failing, and talk about using big words. And even though the Advance Party likes it very badly – in Hedmark too – it is true that they have failed their voters, and they have broken all election vows in view of what was said and promised when it came to tolling and collecting them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2780	As a matter of fact, no more has asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2794	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2801	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive and good consideration of the issue of the agricultural agreement for 2016-2017, which is being debated here in the Stortinget today. The agreement was concluded between the State and the Norwegian Confederation on 15 May 2016. Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' Teams broke the negotiations. The agricultural statement in 2016 relates to appropriations above Chapter 1150 for the calendar year 2017 and to reallocations within the adopted budget for 2016. Furthermore, the settlement includes target prices for the period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 and some other provisions. The most central political basis for the negotiations is the government's political platform, the Stockholm Summit's treatment of Innst. 285 S for 2013–2014, Innst. 385 S for 2014-2015 and the Agreement between the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties of 28 May 2014. The state’s supply prioritises increased production where there are market opportunities, increased quality, better use of Norwegian grass and grassland resources through increased subsidies to cereals and reduced incentives to produce grass in cereal areas and increased investment efforts to meet the need for investment in plant and soil. In addition, the provision of climate change priority is given to research, investigation and advice. The agreement facilitates an increase in income per year. annual work of 18.75 p.m. from 2014 to 2017, or at the lower edge of 6 pst. per 1 % years. The normalised accounts of the year show that the trend of income in agriculture is likely to be higher than in other groups. Farm development with quite equal opportunities will vary. This is because farmers, like other private traders, make their choices based on an overall assessment of the opportunities offered by the industry. Data at enterprise level show that there is a significant variation in average income, both in production and between uses with similar conditions and assumptions. There's a lot of optimism and investment in the industry. Less use is lost, and fewer farmers leave the industry. For example, the distortion of the grant from the area to the production is due to: a balanced production of lamb meat, and one estimates that the under-coverage of Norwegian beef will be reduced when the quality premium for beef is almost doubled. Changes in some allowance limits also facilitate greater use of economies of scale in output. At the same time, structural and district subsidies have been maintained, which means that the level of aid is relatively higher for smaller producers. Growth and Founding Plan Garden as a resource – the market as a target, Report. St. 31 for 2014–2015, promotes a number of measures to improve the utilisation by individual farmers of the farm’s total resources in their activities. In the last decade the total volume of agricultural production has increased by 2.8 pst. The production of livestock products has increased by 6,5 pst., while the production of plant products has fallen above 5,5 pst. After several years of reducing self-sufficiency, it has increased by 3 percentage points from 47 pst from 2014 to 2015. to 50 pst., especially because the cereal crops have been good. It is essential that the agricultural policy pursued provides safe and safe food, agriculture throughout the country, increased value creation and sustainable nutrition. Productivity trends in agriculture have been higher for many years than in other industries as a result of increased yield and performance per capita. unit. Technological improvements and structural changes have also led to reduced labour input and improved earnings. In the period 2009 to 2014, more than 97 400 Decar area was authorised for re-growing. Approved area for new cultivation increased by 4,015 deer from 2013 to 2014. In 2004, a target was set to reduce the annual redisposal to less than 6000 deches. This target was achieved in 2013. The re-disposal of cultivated land is now at the lowest recorded level since registrations started in 1976. Trade is fundamental to economic growth and development. International trade cooperation is increasingly developing between countries. Developments are in the direction of reduced trade barriers and increased trade. The government will balance different considerations in the national administration of import protection. The processing and placing on the market of agricultural products is mainly outside the scope of the Agreement on Agriculture, but agricultural and commercial policy conditions, market mechanisms and price developments on raw materials are nevertheless of great importance both for industry and for trade. As a result, agricultural policy must have all stages in the chain from land to table as a perspective. I would like to recommend the Committee's position, and I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2838	There are several of us who in recent years have been excited about what kind of direction Right agricultural policy actually takes. In the opposition, we wanted to cut budget support and cut food prices, and now we see a budget where budget support is increasing, and that is good, although many of us believe that it should perhaps be more, and we are also taking the initiative and putting on the table an increase in food prices. I also see that a joint committee, including the Right, says in the vote: ‘In order to ensure recruitment and income opportunities for those who use all or most of their labour in the industry, it is important to reduce the income gap between agriculture and others in society.’ How does the rapporteur feel that this gap in income between farmers and others in society can be bridged, and will one in this way take the initiative in the next agricultural settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2850	We don't disagree that farmers should have income in line with other groups, but we disagree that it should only happen via larger government transfers. The State may not provide income, but the State may facilitate farmers to take advantage of the income opportunities provided by the framework. The peasants are not State employees, but self-employed, with a great opportunity to influence their own income. The normalised accounts of the year show that the trend of income in agriculture is likely to be clearly higher than in other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2855	I want to follow up on the same theme. It is the right of the representative, Mr Foss, to say that it is about transfers, and it is about prices in the market. But all of this is part of the income of agriculture and is dealt with in the agricultural sector. The percentage of similar developments will contribute to increasing differences. Here I see that the Right is involved in the comment on reducing the income gap between agriculture and others in society. My question is whether that means that right in the future indicates to me that it's a goal to reduce the chronic difference measured per. annual work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2860	The starting point is that the growth of income is measured as a percentage in all income statements. There is no majority in the Committee to amend it. Then it remains to be seen whether those who talk quite loudly about this now in opposition, will deliver on it if they get in position again. Although the data base changes over time, it is worth recalling that the total calculations of the year show that the agricultural income in 2006, i.e. under the red-green regime, was 47 pst. of the income of other groups, currently 66 pst. of the income of other groups. It clearly means that there are better times for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2865	It's true that it's common to measure income development as a percentage, but when you talk about an income gap, it's not about a percentage. A gap is made up of heads. If you want to close the gap, you have to reduce the difference between agriculture and other groups. My question is: when the Right has chosen to support the fact that it is important to reduce the income gap between agriculture and others in society, does it not mean that the Right believes that, in crowns, agriculture should in future be given a higher level of development than other groups do, in order to achieve what a collective committee says, simply to reduce the income gap?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2870	As I have previously replied to the representative of Storberget, of course, the right does not disagree with the fact that the farmers will have a income in line with other groups, but we disagree with the means that will lead to it. For our part, we're busy lowering taxes. We are committed to simplified support schemes, to provide opportunities for those who want to invest by embellishing allowances and regulations so that they can defend investment and exploit the farm's overall resource base. By this we believe that we are facilitating farmers to get income in line with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2875	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2879	Norwegian farmers produce very well, they produce the necessary goods, and they are in what I see as the middle of the transformation society we actually live in, and the middle of the society that needs a green shift. In this way, the Labour Party is very pleased that – at least in part – it has been possible to negotiate an agricultural agreement which at least one of the trade unions has joined. I find reason to stress this, because from the point of view of the Workers' Party, we believe that the negotiating institute and the possibility that Norwegian food producers have to take this round in the spring is a benefit both to society as a whole and not least to the food producers as a whole. It is not certain that one would reach the same distance if one were to enter more ordinary budgetary processes and defend one's interests against all other good needs. One should not have been involved in budgetary negotiations for as long as one understands it, either inside or outside the government. Norwegian farmers are among those who in recent years have really shown that it is possible to convert production activities in Norway, and in many ways they have made a shame of all indications that this is a type of industry that is about to rot. Fortunately, it seems that both the population, political environments and almost all political parties – and I also want to say the government – see that point. In fact, it is absolutely necessary to be able to get a good green shift, continued growth, increased production in mainland Norway. Norwegian farmers, both small and large, will then be among the most important players to play in the future. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it is particularly important that we do what we can to settle the spring party, which ensures increased profitability for those who are in this industry. However, on the part of the Labour Party, there is reason to point out that we believe that profitability still needs to rise, and that it is not like the case rapporteur, the representative Foss, said in the change of line: that there are almost entirely different conditions that should help increase profitability than what we politicians have. There is reason to point out that in the last three years of the red-green government – I have listened to the debate on transport this afternoon and found out that I have to talk a little about the red-green years, I too, since it was such a hot topic there – increased budget transfers by over 1 billion. In the last three years, there has been an increase of approx. 145 million. kr. There is a significant shift in how we view what we perceive as a future industry – obviously. If you really want to be able to close the revenue gap, it is the Workers' Party's view that we also need to use more of the budgetary instruments that we, as big-scale representatives, are set to rely on. We perceive that the position that is now on the table is a clear message to the government, and that it actually involves a parking lot of what I see as an attempt and appeal to liberalist agricultural policy. This setting makes it very clear, in my opinion, that the revenue gap has to be closed. It makes it very clear that the investment needs of Norwegian farmers must now be taken into account, not just in relation to a future – albeit far-reaching – unbundling requirement to be implemented, but that there is a significant need for increased access to capital. The comments also include a majority of those who say that the negotiations that the government is now in the process of implementing in relation to Article 19 of the EEA have to protect Norwegian agriculture as much as possible. There is also a clear majority who say that a varied use structure and production needs to be maintained throughout the country in order to be able to increase Norwegian food production, and in order for us to be able to increase profitability. And there is also a majority in the committee that stresses that it believes that the government has not followed up the work to protect more of our food soil, which is an absolute prerequisite for – I kept saying all – both this and future agricultural settlements. On behalf of the Labour Party, we would also like to support the proposal that I understand the representative of Lundtigen has made today early.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2896	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2899	The representative mentioned some steps that the Workers' Party would take to improve the situation of the farmer and not least to increase Norwegian food production. Can the representative Storberget briefly provide a three-four good solutions on how Norway can become more self-sufficient in food?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2904	I'll try my best. First of all, I mean, as I said in my main post, that we have to increase profitability. Then, in my opinion, the government has to do more than today back on the line on which the red-green government was on, using the budget more actively than what you actually do. I also believe, as I also said in my speech, that it is a prerequisite for increasing Norwegian production that we need to be more able, including from the political side of the Grand Duchy, to look at ways to raise investment in agriculture – and that is a broad perspective. So I am of the opinion that the soil protection strategy that was adopted is totally dependent on putting power behind it – especially the positive tools that were called for by the Stortinge in order to take care of more food soils. Finally, I would like to mention that if we are unable to mark very clearly in international negotiations that we need to protect Norwegian agriculture, I am afraid that production in Norway will fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2917	This government has combined rates in animal subsidies, introduced common quota ceilings for all types of dairy businesses, liquidated the separate co-operation legislation, removed the amount of the livestock premium and removed structurally differentiated rates in the area grants – and much more. When the Workers' Party calls for greater differentiation of instruments and a reversal of liberalisation, does that mean that the Workers' Party will reverse the changes made in the last two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2924	Where there are budgetary reasons to do so, but also where one actually has the opportunity to do so, it will be necessary to consider reverse changes — especially those relating to structure. It was a significant criticism from the Labour Party and more here in Stortinget that in 2014 it went too far when it came to structure. If you're going to do what the majority says, namely increase Norwegian food production across the country, I don't think it's right to move on this way by having such a structural development that we saw indications, but that I actually think this agricultural business is moderated somewhat. To the extent that you want to make drastic changes, for example: in the case of milk quotas, milk quota schemes and county divisions, the Labour Party is of the opinion that these changes may be difficult to change if they are made, but it is very important to maintain the structure we have in Norwegian agriculture and production throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2931	The representative of Storberget said in his speech that the negotiating institute benefits society as a whole and the food producers. The representative also referred to the government’s budgetary conference — there are only some who have experience from there, but it may be worth noting. In the nations, we have had the pleasure of being able to read the statements of the representative Storberget that, in the event of a breach, it was possible for one party to have a greater impact on the Stortinget. Does the representative Storberget think this is building up under the negotiating institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2938	In the event of a total breach of both trade unions – if that is what the representative is thinking about, the situation we are looking at, among other things. had in 2014 – I believe that you can’t expect the Stortinge to automatically acclamate the state’s offer. It would really be to set policy aside. There is a limit to how far to accept the negotiating institute. With a government made up of the Right and the Advance Party – i.e. the extreme right – that has marketed so clearly that it is necessary to tear down what I see as central to agricultural policy, at least no guarantee will be given by the Workers' Party that we will support the government's offer in the event of a total breach. This is a balance. I am also very anxious that, as a special interest and an important interest in Norway, farmers benefit very much from having this opportunity to engage in agricultural negotiations – which I see as a reasonable reality, and where results have actually been achieved this year, which is better than what would be achieved with another alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2945	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2948	Then we are still in front of the processing of the agricultural settlement here in Stortinget. I have enjoyed myself as much each time after the Right Party and the Advance Party came into government. I am pleased that we can again present an agricultural settlement that will benefit Norwegian farmers and Norwegian consumers. In 2014, there was a breach of settlement and treatment ended in Stortinget. The size took the necessary steps to improve the situation of Norwegian agriculture. Among other things, the bulk of the population – consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – decided on the time to increase the quality grant, the slaughter grant, on sheep because we had a shortage of sheepmeat in Norway. It was done. As a result, we are now self-sufficient in sheep meat in Norway. From 2003 to 2014, the number of sheep use in Norway decreased by 5,500. From 2014 to 2016, this trend reversed, and we actually received 200 new uses in Norway. So we increased the number of uses, thanks to this government and our collaboration parties. There must be something to rejoice for, even for the red-greens, although they did not succeed in the years they sat. We are now self-sufficient in sheep meat in Norway. We've increased the production of sheep meat. We've increased the farmer's earnings. We have done so that it is more profitable to produce Norwegian food on Norwegian resources in Norway. With the agricultural settlement we now have for treatment, we go in to increase the quality premium for cattle. We have a deficit in cattle slaughter, so we want to do something about it. By increasing the quality premium, we make it more profitable to produce good quality Norwegian meat, on Norwegian resources, for the benefit of the Norwegian consumer. This, I think, is going to be as successful as the increase in sheep production was. It is important, as several have now mentioned, to ensure that the Norwegian farmer receives a good income that can be proud of. We've done that with this settlement, with the previous settlement and with the previous settlement. There are no groups that have increased their income percentage as much as the Norwegian farmer. At the same time, the percentage increase has been so large that the revenue gap has actually been reduced. There's something the red-greens might be able to bring on in the debate, and something the red-greens certainly couldn't do in the eight years they sat with the power. But this government is clear. In the end, I will be allowed to mention one thing that was so far taken up in the previous article. We have a contract institute, and the majority of Stortinges have agreed to keep that contract institute. Then I am a little surprised when I read the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, which asks us to send the entire agricultural settlement back to the government and ask it to come with new things, new grips, which SV can be satisfied with. We should have confidence that the state knows what it is doing when negotiating the agricultural settlement, but we should also have confidence that Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers teams have a bearing on what they do when negotiating the agricultural settlement. As I see it, this is a mistrust of the state – it gets to be – but it is also a mistrust of Norway's Bond Team and Norwegian Bond and Small User Teams. Because what the Socialist Left Party thinks is that they can't negotiate well enough, so we have to tell them what to negotiate about, and how to do it. At least the Progress Party will not be in it. I don't think the Right will agree with that, and I doubt that anyone else in this room will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2965	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2969	It sounds as if Ørsal Johansen is very pleased with the Progress Party in government. It seems that it has never been so good to run agriculture as after the Progress Party came into government. But let's go to a concrete thing. The Progress Party is in government, as has been said, and through the agricultural settlement, food prices have been increased for consumers and the budget has increased. That is a little interesting, given that the Progress Party has always been concerned about saying that it is going to reduce budget resources and bring prices down. So you've done the exact opposite of what you've said before. Then I'm just wondering if that means that the Progress Party has left the old stuff of thought that they brought into the government and got a new policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2978	Of course, I am pleased with the Progress Party in government – it should just be missing. When you look at what the Progress Party and the Right have got together in government, we have to be satisfied. Actually, I think that both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the others in the opposition are satisfied – they're just a little dissatisfied that they haven't been able to do the same thing we've done. In the case of agriculture: Yes, we believe that some changes can be made in agriculture to cut budget resources. We've started a process to make some simplifications and improvements. In the agricultural sector in 2014, 26 simplifications were adopted. We still have that trend. In the year's settlement, there were fewer. And before we can cut as much as we want, we have to do these simplifications: make sure that, among other things. Bureaucracy is getting a little better, making sure that we make it more effective to manage Norwegian agricultural policy. So we can start cutting. But that doesn't mean we're going to cut the farmer's earnings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2985	The progress party went to the elections to halve the transfers, reduce food prices, cut customs protection, and remove the negotiations. Then one came into power, and then one of the extra transfers, the food has been more expensive, one has made itself completely dependent on the cheese toll and customs protection, and now we've experienced that the Progress Party has failed to respect the negotiations. My question is, has the Progress Party realised that their policies have not been tolerated by reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2992	I refer you to my previous reply, which was to the representative Botten. We have an intention to make some changes in Norwegian agricultural policy, but we have realised that the Progress Party is not in the majority alone in this Chamber, and we must deal with that. We're working with other parties, and I think that's been pretty good. We've made a lot of changes, a lot of simplifications, which means that eventually we can maybe go in and cut something off on the agricultural transfers. It may also mean that Norwegian food prices can be slightly lowered — without compromising the farmer’s earnings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e2997	It is obvious that Ørsal Johansen has very much respect for the negotiating institute. There is something that I think the representative has a kind of sacred relationship with. I have all respect for that. The state is part of many states, many negotiations and many negotiating institutes around, and it got me to rush over how the Progress Party is dealing with the other negotiating institute. Is it only this time that the Holy One is so great, while in others it is not? Then I thought, "What's the matter with social security for the last ten years, where the Progress Party has come up with a lot of minority proposals and has wanted to go against this negotiating institute? So I'm just wondering if the representative Ørsal Johansen can clarify for the Stortinget and the people otherwise what is the relationship of the Progress Party with the negotiating institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3006	I am a little uncertain about whether I should go in and say something about the social security scheme. It's not exactly my field, but I can say something about the agricultural settlement and the negotiating institute there. The party of progress is in a government where the government platform says we should keep the negotiating institute and that that is what we are building the agricultural negotiations on. The progress party wants to remove it – there is no doubt about it. It's our policy. But as long as we sit in a government that has a government platform that is ready for us to keep the negotiating institute, we do. It's that simple. And then we defend the negotiating institute. But I think it's strange that the representative Knag Fylkesnes comes up with that criticism when he himself performs to make suggestions in this room that would break and destroy the entire negotiating institute. It surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3013	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3016	The current day's setting is a setting that points towards the current day. It reaffirms the agreement between the Lander and the State of 15 May 2016 and provides guidance for future agricultural policy. The negotiating partners have told us that there were demanding negotiations. A day and a half in overtime, but in good time before the flags were to be lifted on May 17, the agreement was in box. This year's agreement provides for increased production where there is room for it in the market: cereals and cattle. And then a budget spends in a targeted way by, among other things, to increase the operating aid by NOK 8 000 per dairy farm, which was also done in 2014, when we had negotiations here in Stortinget. One chooses to increase the support for suckler cows up to 40 cows, one increases the animal premium up to 16 cows and the same for sheep, up to 100 sheep. These are devices that are in line with the Christian People's Party and I would also like to say with the intent of the Storting. As Norway has been created, we need a varied use structure that is consistent with the resource base across the country. At the press conference when the agreement was in place, the director of the Farm said that this is an agreement that guarantees diversity, ensures increased food production, and ensures increased value creation. Furthermore, it was said that this agreement ensures better development than if we had not accepted an agreement. The Christian People's Party has respect for the negotiating institute. We have respect for the process that the trade unions have for the demands that are being made, we have respect for the offer that is coming, and for the negotiating situation itself. It's a consensus that's come into place. I think it has been both sweat, night hours and a text message, but now we are here, and with the negotiated agreement on the ground, Stortinget confirms this today and makes the necessary changes to the state budget for 2016. Today’s suspension also provides important guidance for future agricultural policy. It also belongs to the negotiating institute. An overall committee says that we should ‘reduce the income gap between agriculture and others in society’, that ‘it is essential that farmers should be able to have income development and social conditions in line with other groups’, and that ‘the farmers who are self-employed can influence their income development’. Then there is also a majority in the committee that says that the agreement ‘will contribute to a balanced development of income by allocating budgetary resources with a structural profile that balances the revenue possibilities for small and medium-sized applications’. [[...]] Income is also important for recruitment. We see from the numbers from the Coordinate Recording that it's 20 pst. greater agricultural and livestock research this year than last year, and we also see the trend in secondary school, with 16 pst. increase. It's a pleasure. No decisions under the Paris climate agreement can be taken without taking into account the agreement of the climate agreement. The climate report prepared as a result of the 2014 agreement, between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, shows that Norwegian agriculture has a potential to cut 20 pst. emissions while maintaining production. This is precisely the cloud itself: being able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while maintaining food production. In agreement between the Land Layer and the State, the unbundling requirement has been postponed by 10 years. Farmers think from a generation perspective, but they are also concerned with sensible and practical ways of making such large investments. I noticed in the message from the director of the Bondelag at the press conference that increased investment is as important as before in order to increase investment in the future. This is a clear message to the government that investment in agriculture needs to be increased. In addition to this year's settlement, the government also sends the price equalisation scheme for milk to the Stortinget via the proposition we now have for treatment. The government will have one roof per actor. The industry wants a single roof. In the light of competition within the Norwegian dairy sector and external competition, an overall committee has provided for a grant of 50 øre per litre up to 115 million litres, a scheme to be evaluated in 2018. But we believe that this is a good arrangement until then. This will increase competition and also enable us to use milk produced in Norwegian soils and Norwegian cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3048	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3051	Reducing the revenue gap is important in the future, according to a single committee. Now we see both in the media and in the line change here that the government parties put a little different interpretation into what's in this. In fact, I almost understood the representative Ingunn Foss in the line change here as if she did not believe that it was the actual gap to be closed. What kind of expectations does the Christian People's Party have for the follow-up of the government? And what will the Christian People's Party itself do to the cooperation parties towards the next settlement at this point, which the representative was also very concerned about in his post?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3058	Thanks for the line. Yes, the setting is at this point, as at very many other points, good. We have a double-sided formulation of income: both to reduce the gap that farmers have against other groups, and also to have equal development. There is the right step and direction for this setting. It is known the policy of both the representative of Omland and the government that the Christian People's Party has stood on it and believes it. Today, a joint committee says this, and there is a clear message to the government and our partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3066	This year's agricultural policy increases, according to the proposition, the income gap by NOK 2000. Therefore, it is very gratifying that a Joint Committee has said that it is important to reduce the revenue gap. In the 2014 setting, there is a wording that points to current income targets, which will be a percentage equal to development, i.e. an income target that will increase the income gap. So my question to the Christian People's Party is, when the Christian People's Party is now behind a remark to reduce the income gap, does that mean that the 2014 wording is no longer applicable?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3073	Now we're debating today's attitude, and that's what we're dealing with. The Christian People's Party has said that we should both reduce the income gap between farmers and comparable groups, and that there should be a development in line with other groups in terms of income and social conditions. So it is that we came as far as we came in 2014, and now the Committee – with the Central Party on board, with the Workers' Party on board, with SV on board, and I expect the Green Party also to support this, even if they want to send the matter back – that what is good for agriculture is good for us who are concerned that the farmer should have a good income to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3080	I'm happy with that clarification. I think I might have a little bit heavy on it, but I want to challenge even more concretely: is it so to understand that in order to reduce the income gap and have a wage trend in line with other groups, does future data have to be at least equal to chronic income trends as other groups measured per year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3085	I have never thought that the co-representative Pollestad has a hard time doing that. I believe Pollestad can read both the current settings and the 2014 setting. I think Pollestad knows both the Christian People's Party's programme on this and the Right, the Progress Party's and Left's programme. Pollestad knows where there are nuance differences, and the representative also knows very well what is in the current position, that one should reduce the income gap, and that there should be a development in line with other groups. Then the farmers are self-employed, it's been important for the Christian People's Party, and I think that's important for the Center Party, and then there's also other income bases that the majority of the Committee points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3090	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3093	The centre party has a knocking heart for Norwegian food production. We want to use the resources we have to increase the production of Norwegian food. We want large and small gardening in the whole country. We will have proud farmers and facilitate recruitment for the peasantry. We disagree in the government's unilateral effort to increase the use of large and centralize food production in Norway. Where the government envisages quarter by quarter, year by year, the Centre Party has a generation perspective on agriculture. Family farming is the cornerstone of the success story of Norwegian agriculture. The centre party maintains that an agreement has been reached between the state and Norway's Bondelag. When you look at the last three figures, there has been a total increase in the budget of 145 million. kr. In comparison, over the last three years of the previous government, there was a growth of more than one billion. There is clear evidence that it means something about the Storting that governs agricultural policy. The most important thing about today's treatment of agricultural policy is to point out a direction for the next year's data. I am pleased that one in the committee position thinks it is ‘important to reduce the income gap between agriculture and others in society’. This is a formulation which, in my opinion, is not misunderstanding. This means that agricultural income trends in kronor per year have to be higher than for other groups. The centre party has put forward an own proposal that would have removed the interpretation will. That is the proposal. It is also important to say that a ‘strengthen the differentiation of the instruments’ in order to ensure a varied use structure. I hope that the Council of State in the debate will confirm that he also perceives that this is a new course compared to the government that has now had. Furthermore, the centre party believes it is very important to secure investments on all types of use. For this reason, we also have a proposal for an investment package for agriculture specifically aimed at investing in small and medium-sized enterprises. The suspension of the detachment requirement must not become a sleep cushion in order not to renew the operating appliance in Norwegian gardening; on the contrary, an investment effort should now be made. It is quite clear that a non-increasing Norwegian food production by increasing the size of the population is not possible. Today, too, there is a loose proposal from the representative of the Central Party of Per Olaf Lundtigen. I want to make some comments about it: it's an important proposal. I think it is very necessary that the Storting is clear about what is involved in the topic of ‘increased food production in Norwegian resources’. The proposal is entirely in line with the comments made by the Central Party, and it is also in line with the Vice President of the Central Party, Ola Borten Moe, said in Political Quarter at the NRK earlier today. So, of course, the whole group of the Central Party will support that proposal. I have to say that I am a little disappointed that the Christian People's Party and the Left have such a passive attitude towards agricultural policy that they have found themselves in being braked for a blue-blue policy for three years. At times they have slowed well, but now it is time for the Christian People's Party and the Left to take advantage of the time up to the agricultural decision to discipline the government. And I would like to encourage them to use the debate today to conclude that when one wants to reduce the income gap, it is not possible with annual data that adds up extra differences between the agricultural income and other groups, which are specified by the year. With that, I will address the proposals behind the Central Party, and look forward to a fresh and clarifying debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3114	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3117	Never before has there been such optimism in agriculture as we now see. Investment is high among farmers, the number of applicants for agricultural training is very high, food production is increasing, the income of the farmer is increasing, and the gap against other groups is being reduced. There must be a steady downturn for the Central Party to see that the government's policy is working and that the objectives of agricultural policy are being achieved. This policy has led the farmer to be more free in operational adaptation, and there are many farmers who now feel that they are being closed. Under the red-green government, there was a very centralisation and structural change in Norwegian agriculture. There was a reduction in the number of farmers. I wonder if it is this success with the government's policy and the increase in agricultural optimism that is now making it possible for the Central Party to set a specific objective in the forthcoming big business message to keep up the number of farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3122	I thank you for the question. Of course, I enjoy the arrows that had to point the right way, but I think this is not a completely true description of reality. First of all, I think the government is measuring things too short-term. It is clear that it is happy with a good grain year, that it is fine weather and sun, but that does not mean that the government’s policy works – that means it was good that year. The SSB's figures show that meat production falls in Norway. When we look at numbers for the degradation of food soil, the positive downward trend that has ours has turned upside down. But the government party – in its creativity – uses some average measurements that make their numbers appear positive. In fact, the arrow has turned around. And as I said in my post, 145 million. Agriculture has received additional budget support over three years. The corresponding figure under the previous government was 1 billion. kr. So I think the safest thing for food production is to change government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3127	A joint committee wants to reduce the pay gap, and we see that the last three years, i.e. from 2014 to 2017, the agricultural settlement has given a income increase to the farmer of 19 p.m. It's about 6 pst. per year and well above the others. So the question is, how does one think in the center part if one is going to decrease the gap further? Do you think a country that has the most expensive food should have an even stronger import protection, or should it send the bill to the consumer? Or how does the Center Party think, when in this period we've managed to decrease the gap more than one claw in the red-green reign?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3132	The most expensive thing we can do is not bet on Norwegian food production. Looking a little behind the numbers that were referred to here, it is primarily from 2014 to 2015 it was a very positive development – NOK 42,000 came that year. The following year, a lower income development in agriculture is expected than for other groups. This is described in the proposition, where, among other things, is referred to the reduced interest rate and market balance for pigs as contributing causes. The market balance for pigs has been achieved due to a good barbecue season – good weather. There are no limits to which the Right and Advance parties take the honor. What I think the Right and Advance Party should have done was to ensure an agricultural settlement that made the income differences go down and not go up, as the year's agreement states.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3138	A few minutes after the agreement between the League of Bonds and the State was concluded, the Nations could refer to the following: ‘In my view, this is a weak agreement,’ says Geir Pollestad, a central party representative and head of the Business Committee at Stortinget. He criticises the government not to bet on agriculture in an attempt to counteract the economic decline in the country.’ In today's Political Quarter, we heard Vice-Chairman Ola Borten Moe actually criticise the Council of State quite directly to do too much, because the Council of State of the Progress Party does not follow the Progress Party programme. So we get a discussion about it. We know the Center Party as a party that likes to ride two horses. My question is: is this really what the representative is now trying to do – a party leader who says that the Progress Party is doing too much, while Pollestad says the agreement is too weak?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3152	What my nest leader did in Political Quarter was as much as I did in the past during the line change. It was to be seen that the policy of the Progress Party is different from that of the government, and that the Progress Party's policy has not been tolerated by reality. When it comes to my comment that this is a weak and bad deal, it's because it says in the proposition that he wants to increase the income difference by NOK 2000. That's what I think is a bad deal. But I record that the leader of Norway's Bondelag said this was so far one coming. I record that one sticks to the political plurality that is leading, and concludes and evaluates agreements based on it. I would also like to maintain that the right to negotiate confers on the Lander the right to conclude bad agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3159	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3162	The left is pleased that the Lander and the State reached an agreement in the agricultural negotiations this year. It is important for agricultural organisations to be able to negotiate with the State each year on important framework conditions for industry – apart from the regular budgetary processes. In the context of the 2014 agricultural negotiations, the Left, together with the Christian People's Party and the Government Parties, negotiated an agreement which laid the basis for the agricultural policy pursued in the future. In the agreement, government parties recognise that the operating conditions are different in different parts of the country and that it is therefore important to maintain a differentiation in the instruments. For this reason, district agencies are central. The left is concerned that it should be attractive to grow for the farmers who want it, where it is appropriate, but it must be balanced against the fact that it should be attractive to be a farmer with 20 cows as well. Therefore, it is important for the Left with differentiation of the instruments, so that we maintain a varied use structure and ensure sustainable production of agricultural land throughout the country. It is essential that the structural arrangements of the instruments are designed to provide profitable operation at different sizes of use. The left therefore welcomes the fact that in the agreement of the year there is a movement towards strengthening small and medium-sized applications and that the increase in budget support is largely geared towards improving the profitability and operational basis of small and medium-sized enterprises. To achieve the goal of increased food production, the whole country needs to be used. I would like to underline the importance of contributing to profitable food production in what can be called marginal areas for agriculture, while at the same time facilitating volume production – at all a production that ensures the availability of high-quality raw materials to the food industry. The left is pleased that this year's agricultural agreement strengthens the grant for grazing in the pasture, for both sheep and cattle, in order to make better use of Norwegian grass resources. It involves strengthening rural agriculture, improving animal welfare and maintaining the cultural landscape. In addition, I have noticed that in order to stimulate organic production, the contracting parties are increasing the organic livestock production rates and the areas used to grow organic vegetables, fruit, berries and potatoes. It is positive and necessary if we are to achieve our goal of organic farming. In climate action, it is important to prioritise further efforts towards R & D and advice. I am therefore pleased that the system of subsidies for drainage is continuing as today, and that funds for the sustainable use of pesticides are prioritised for agricultural purposes. It is important for the Left that agriculture contributes to achieving the ambitious climate objectives we have set ourselves, and in this respect I would like to recall the climate report of the party-based committee of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Association of Forestry, the Confederation of Bonds, the Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers and the Eco-Foundation Zero – a report that was presented earlier this year. It shows that Norwegian agriculture has the potential to cut 20 pst. the emissions, while maintaining production. Investment in climate-smart operating methods must also be worthwhile and the instruments must be designed to provide sufficient incentives for business operators to invest in climate-efficient and climate-friendly operations. In order to facilitate the financing of investments in climate action, a tax advantage fund scheme based on the Forest Fund Scheme model should be considered. The left has no sense of delaying the requirement for unbundling until 2034. The unloading requirement has been known since St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003 on animal husbandry and welfare. All Norwegian dairy farmers have had at least 20 years rehabilitating their operations, and many actors have already built new farms. I believe that a postponement of the ransom claim is unreasonable to the farmers who have complied with the applicable legislation and took on large loans to rebuild or build a new one. Specific investment needs are required in order to meet the requirement to operate in cattle holdings, in particular for small and medium-sized applications. I therefore believe that the investment instruments need to be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3194	In the course of last year's settlement, the Left took part in a majority comment on that 20 million. kr for cantrudging in the West should not be part of the agricultural settlement. In fact, this year's proposition says that one is adding up to an annual reserve of 20 million. kr for this purpose. This year, the Left is not included in this note. Has Left changed its vision, or has it bowed down to the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3199	This has not been a central point for the Left in the course of the year's treatment of the agricultural agreement. We have made a balance that means that we have landed where we have landed in the course of the year's treatment. As the representative of Omland has probably also come with us, we are involved in a lot of comments together with the Workers' Party, but we have chosen to put in the pot a little bit of other things this year, without having changed our vision for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3204	I think the most important thing in the vote is the Committee's remark that it is important to reduce the income gap between agriculture and others in society. So my question is, in the view of the Left, does this mean that the current income measure is percent equal to income development, or is it chronically at least equal to the income development of other groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3209	The left has joined a common note here now, which is related to reducing the income gap. That means that for the Left, it's been what's been most central this year. But then we're also involved in other comments that are based on the fact that we're going to have a development similar to other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3214	My impression is that the left in agricultural policy is considerably closer to a potential multiple than the majority we have in Norway today. We would have a completely different development for Norwegian agriculture if the Left had changed sides. If one reads the comments, one sees that it would be entirely open-minded a much better income development for the farmers of the Left along with the Christian People's Party would have chosen a different course in agricultural and agricultural policy. My question is simply whether it is because there are other political areas that are important to the Left, that they have it working with the Right and the Progress Party, or is it because they have had an impact on important parts of their own agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3221	I think you'll see from what the Left has contributed to the agricultural policy that we signed the agreement in 2014 – I'm now sticking to the agricultural settlement, that's what we should be talking about here – that we have, together with the Christian People's Party, in a way, drawn the government parties well towards the centre, towards which the Left wants agricultural policy to lie. I allow myself to say that agricultural policy as it is now is quite close to what is the basic view of the Left in agricultural policy. I don't think anyone can surprise me saying that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3226	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3230	Norway is a state of affairs. We have a tough and harsh climate, and we live spread. It requires us to use the tools and tools we have to ensure food production where possible. The agricultural settlement is the annual review of how we're going to control the means of action, and whether we're at all following the course we've decided to follow. Perhaps the most striking thing about agricultural policy is that we have many objectives and little target management. The size has adopted many objectives, but it is almost impossible to see how these have been operationalized through the agricultural settlement. Where EN in other areas of society thinks there is too much target management and too little trust, we think it is the opposite of agricultural policy. It might be a back-end reason why we're in the situation we're in right now, where there's a big gap between what I'm talking about, and how the government has followed up these goals through the agricultural settlement. Perhaps the measure and direction of the Size are not clear enough for the government. Maybe the painting cracks in all directions, maybe the goal is really a big menu that allows the Minister of Agriculture to act quite freely. Before we start discussing the content of the statement itself, and apart from ideological differences, I think we're all lit up with a much more operational target structure for Norwegian agricultural policy. This is the background for SV to suggest that the government returns in the fall with a model of target structure with concrete, limited, verifiable targets that can provide the basis for management and performance measurement. We ask that the parties consider supporting it. So to the policy: The Norwegian agriculture target can be summed up in that we want to increase food production by essentially using Norwegian resources ecologically throughout the country. I think it's hard to see that these paintings have been leading the country's agricultural policy. Increased feed imports, reduced land use, the weakening of small and medium-sized uses, increased income gap, centralisation and no migration plan for organic farming mean that Norwegian agriculture is moving in the opposite direction to the objectives. One might say that, in order to paraphrase Hemdal from the Christian People's Party, it might be good that the offer was not presented on May 17. It may not be that when the agricultural policy to the government moves Norway in the wrong direction, the Stortinget shall sit under the cover of the negotiating institute. There is no one other than the Storting in this country who has overseen the responsibility for Norwegian food production. When the captain sees that the ship does not follow an agreed course, he asks the mate to adjust the course. It is both our responsibility and our duty. What are we going to do when it doesn't happen? I think writing annotation is not the right way to go. Thus, SV proposes to send the given data back to the government as a whole. Between 1999 and 2015 there has been a reduction in the total agricultural area of 537 000 deches. There's a decrease of over 5 pst. of the agricultural area. The reduction in full-grown agricultural area is particularly strong in Telemark, Agder and Western counties, with more than 20 pst. in Hordaland. My home state, Troms, is one of the highest in terms of reduction. If we're going to be able to reverse this development and really mean something about using the whole country, we have to use a completely different set of tools. We suggest increasing the feed price and making it more lucrative with grass, pasturage and cereals. We will change the distribution of income in such a way that small and medium-sized uses are significantly improved, and we propose the introduction of an operational handicap in the agricultural negotiations in 2018. All in all, we think this is going to be very safe arrangements to counteract land take-off, re-growth and reduced biological deficiency in use with difficult operating conditions. Some people value food needs as arguments for increased food production through feed imports. This is a strange argument, because increased imports of feed also increase the use of the soil in other countries. The forage is grown in a place that does not only appear on the berth from the boat from Brazil. Although imports increase in some parts of Norwegian food production, food production in the world is weakened. The global argument put forward on radio by the Minister of Agriculture this morning, thus meets the requirement for misrepresentation or misrepresentation in Arne Næss's terminology. Maybe we'll be glad to hear it again in a few minutes. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to raise the SV's proposal that we have made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3253	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3258	The approach and the agreement ensure that Norwegian agriculture is based on increased food production across the country, with small and large quantities. It also provides security for those who have invested in agriculture. The agreement facilitates an annual growth rate of almost 19 p.m. from 2014 to 2017, or at the bottom of 6 pst. annual, well above the others. Less usage is going to be reduced, actually we're going to increase the number that we heard earlier. Young people are investing in new collective feathers, and we are maintaining operations on the same volume of land as before. We produce enough eggs to meet our own needs, we produce enough sheep to meet our own needs, and we approach cattle. In other words, we have reversed the negative development we saw over the years with red-green governance, and we think that the Small User Team, if that's what SV is concerned about, has broken six of the last seven years. The question is: does this SV want to return to if they want to send the agricultural policy back?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3265	I'm not sure what the representative meant by wanting to go back to, that is, back to the Farm and Small User Team. If I understand the representative's question correctly, he will first mention the 19 percent. That's what I think I'm pretty good at refuting the previous line inputs here. Much of the increase in the income base for farmers can be explained by the first year from 2014 to 2015. When it comes to the fact that the arrangement of the government has led to greater use of the country: No, that's not true. We see that agricultural land around the country is being laid down, and that the income system for small and medium-sized applications is being weakened in order to increase the income of the large ones. In the future, one will have a situation in which one reduces both the Norwegian food security and the Norwegian authority to produce food. I'd like to remind the representative that the reason organizations break negotiations is because one is disagreeable. That's what one might have to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3272	The representative said we have a qualifying country. That's probably partly correct, but in this poor country we produce incredibly good food, food of very good quality, thanks to the good Norwegian farmers. SV has presented a proposal here in the vote, a minority proposal, in which they, among other things, Norwegian agriculture is the use of land in Norway, which means that the land must be cultivated where it is located. I agree with that, but does the representative Knag Fylkesnes have any examples of growing land where it is not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3279	If I have been so unfortunate and said that it is cultivated land where it is not, I will immediately withdraw the designated one. But there are a lot of examples of the earth not being used in the whole country. It is only to look at the huge decline that has occurred from 1990 to today in the reduction of land around the country. I expect that the representative Ørsal Johansen agrees with me that it is sad that this has actually come about through politics. One could, therefore, prevent this through politics. If one really wanted to use all the different, scattered areas we have around the country, we could have done it. That may be what is at the heart of the discussion between the right and left of the Norwegian agricultural policy. How far is one willing to stretch as a large-scale society to ensure that the whole country is put into operation, both through the income development of farmers and various types of support schemes that make it profitable to have agriculture, for example. in my home state, where there is a good deal between the different agricultural spots.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3284	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3287	While agricultural settlements after agricultural settlement have been concluded and passed in the Stortinget, one in five Norwegian farms have been closed in the last ten years. A few decades ago, we used 25 pst. of our income on food. Today we use 10 pst. The share of the government budget used to support agriculture has fallen from more than 8 pst. ten years ago about 1 pst. in 2016, and adjusted for inflation, the real value of agricultural transfers decreased by approximately 900 million. NOK 3 years. Of course, it is good that people can afford to buy the food they produce. It's good that the state doesn't have to use 8 pst. of the State budget for agriculture, and that farmers do not have to go with shorts in steep lizards to scrape together the winter fodder. It is good that technology and efficiency have increased productivity. But much of the efficiency gain has been derived from cheap food, less use and increasing economies of scale and centralisation. It has been economically rational and apparently necessary from the point of view of many governments. The price for this is reduced food security in Norway, fewer district workplaces and a use structure that is gradually detached from the resource base in Norway. It's Storting's task at regular intervals to ask ourselves if this is a development that we want and that we need to continue. Have we distributed the benefits of productivity development as we really want? The comments of the Industry Committee over the years indicate that we do not have it. Farming is then a natural time to discuss such issues. The Greens think it is time to ask the question: what kind of agriculture can we get if we stop reducing aid every year, and instead start to concreteize expectations about food supply, quality, local resource use, jobs in large and small uses, animal welfare and environmental and climate action? Agricultural development is not in line with the overall objectives of food production, resource use and housing that the Storting regularly expresses. The agricultural policy negotiated by the government and the agricultural organisations this year will further strengthen this trend in the large picture. That is why the MDG, like SV, today proposes that the Storting send the settlement back and ask the government to submit a new offer to the agricultural organisations, following the overall objectives of food production and self-sufficiency based on Norwegian resources. Let me stress that the Greens respect the negotiating institute, like all other parties. We do not want the Stortinget to come forward and send the settlement back. But there has developed a gap between the negotiating results and the large majority of the overall expression. The government's offer does not reflect the overall view of the Stortinget. The offer made this year is based on a very far-reaching market-oriented policy in relation to Norwegian resource reality. Now, of course, it's the government's privilege to offer exactly what it wants, but if the Storting disagrees with it, the Storting must also consider whether they should vote for a result that deviates from overall objectives. The Green Party is at least as busy as all other parties that food has to be produced in a world of increasing numbers of people. Food production in the earth is the sum of the food that can be produced in each country, based on their own resources. Norway’s contribution to world food production is food based on Norwegian resources. The world does not become more saturated by the fact that fewer cows eat Norwegian grass and more eat Brazilian soya. The Green Party has nothing in principle against us and others exporting and importing agricultural products. When we replace food production based on Norwegian resources with food increasingly on imported power feed, we can also import the steaks directly from Argentina and find something else to subsidize from a food supply perspective. The Environment Party of the Greens therefore proposes a gradual reintroduction of the top boundaries removed by the government in 2014, increasing cereal prices, grazing subsidies, roughage supplements, target prices and access requirements for local feed resources in order to receive support for initial investments. We also support Mr Lundtigen's loose proposal, and we do not, of course, support the proposal to postpone the discharge requirement. I refer to the proposal that we have promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3308	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3313	When the history of agricultural success is written once in the future, I believe that the agricultural negotiations themselves will be a very central theme. Why, the President may wonder — well, because this is history of how an industry in close dialogue with central authorities takes on national responsibilities in important areas of society. This system is, fortunately, highly political in nature, although some governments in time and time express themselves strongly against it. Anyway, I think, agricultural negotiations will be a very appropriate tool in the future too, but of course it has led to the negotiation institute being used, and not least to respect the outcome. Therefore, I ask the Environment Party and the representative Hansson: does he not see the open father, that by sending back the negotiated agreement, he will help undermine and put into play the whole system?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3322	Thank you for a good question. First of all, I fully agree with his entire description of the importance of farming. As I stressed in my speech, the Greens have the greatest respect for the negotiating institute. But there must also be a point that the outcome of the negotiations is at all about Stortingen. If it were such that it was exclusively a formality, we would not have had to spend half an afternoon discussing an agricultural settlement that we have predetermined that we should still sign and accept. I believe that it is Storting's sole responsibility for each agricultural settlement to decide on the content of the settlement and decide whether to vote for it or against it. Most of the time, the Storting should respect the outcome of the negotiations, but it must never be certain that the Storting will do so, because then the role of the Storting will be lost, and the pressure on the negotiating parties to reach responsible conclusions will also be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3334	I actually have a short and straightforward question. Is it a goal for the Greens to increase the production of Norwegian beef to meet demand in the Norwegian market?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3339	Thank you for a question with a double bottom. For the Green Party, it is not a separate objective to increase the production of Norwegian beef, for the simple reason that the total meat consumption in Norway should not increase. On the other hand, it is an objective of the Green Party to increase the production of beef based on Norwegian resources, based on Norwegian grass. What becomes the exact volume of production of such a merger can be discussed, but it is a development we will support. But we don't want to see it as an independent and isolated goal of increasing Norwegian meat production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3346	There was an answer with a little bit of a double bottom, so I think I'll try to clarify the question further. If the Norwegian market demands 100 kg of meat, does the Environmental Party of Greens mean that it is a goal that Norwegian agriculture should produce the 100 kg of meat, or does one mean that one should reduce it to 70 kg – and rather import the last 30?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3353	The answer to the question is again: No, the Greens do not believe that it is an isolated, independent goal to produce as much meat as the market at any time. It's of course because market demand to a very large extent is a product of marketing, just like the demand for Sunday-open shops and a lot of other strange things are. As the representative Pollestad is well aware, the state is involved in the massive marketing of meat to Norwegian consumers. Without such marketing, there is a good possibility that the demand for meat to which the representative Pollestad refers will prove to be significantly smaller and there will be more room for green and fruit and other healthy foods that the Norwegian market can offer. It seems that the Greens would be a healthy development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3360	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3363	The agricultural agreement of the year has been concluded at a time which is necessary for Norway. In the last few months, the size has spent a lot of time discussing the situation associated with unemployment and other factors affecting the Norwegian economy. Several of the parties that today think that we should spend more money on agriculture have criticized the government for spending too much money. Today it is time to say that one of the last three years of the red-green period increased the number of permissions by 1 billion. kr, while one today – over three years – has increased by 145 million. kr in budget support. That's right because we have a government that's more busy with results than how much more of the taxpayers' money we've spent on the agricultural sector. I would like to thank the Norwegian Association for actually showing responsibility, even when it is necessary for them to enter into an agreement with the State. The whole paycheck this year is characterized by moderation. It was crucial to reach an agreement that agriculture also showed a real willingness to enter into an agreement based on the economic situation in which it has been. I think that the Storting should reflect on when we're going into new discussions about what we're going to spend the big money on the next few months. What the agricultural agreement actually responds to are the fundamental challenges that agriculture faces in the future. We're going to increase production, and we're going to increase it based on Norwegian resources. That is why we are strengthening the commitment to pasture more in this agreement than agriculture required, because the state also believes it is important to facilitate the use of our land resources. So it's cheaper to send the animals out to the pasture to sank the grass than to sink it on its own. It's reasonable, useful and part of the agreement. We give priority to productions where there are market opportunities when it concerns both cereals, vegetables and beef. It is decisive that one builds up production without disrupting the market balance of the other productions. It is a decision and part of this appointment. In fact, we are strengthening the basis of the geographical distribution of production. I'm very pleased with the signals that the Storting is giving today, that they're busy that we're going to use our grassland as optimally as possible. It tried the country, but it didn't get a complete breakthrough. If one is to use grass resources as efficiently as possible, at least the first thing we have to do is to subsidize the transition from grain land to grass land in the areas you can grow grain. It's the whole idea to increase the level of self-sufficiency that we produce grain where we can. It's decisive that we get that. We came about halfway – from my side – in this statement because the Bond Layer would not go the same way. So we're strengthening the basis for increasing the quality of the food we produce when we strengthen the quality of our food. In addition to doing that, we are making sure that there is a better economy in producing heavier animals and with it also increasing the production of beef, which we are importing today about 16,000 tons of. But the most important thing we have done with this agreement is actually to ensure that those who have made the decisions that the Stortinget made in 2014 when a decision was taken on the agricultural agreement in the Stortinget – those who made the agreement that we were about to conclude in 2015 – could feel confident that the state had set up and said that the basis on which they invested must be established. Rematches on devices that have laid the foundation for the investments that are made, we do not accept. It has been the whole foundation that has enabled those who have invested, and those who want to invest in Norwegian agriculture, to feel confident that the state will stand up and take care of the interests when they look into deep debt to produce our food for the future. It's the very decisive thing that we've got. Then it is important that Norwegian agriculture will be exposed to more competition over time. That's why it's important that we strengthen competitiveness, and it's an important independent point that we're strengthening competitiveness instead of just talking about how much money we spend on the agricultural sector without being just as busy about what we get back for the money. Reduction in take-offs, increased self-sufficiency, increased Norwegian production of power feed and a number of other factors that draw in the right direction: I am pleased that we have reached this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3387	I brought the Nations with me. It must be fantastic for the Council of State to achieve as much for Norwegian agriculture as the government boasts, by granting more money, which the party of progress does not want, by increasing prices, which the party of progress does not want, by keeping the concession law, which the party of progress does not want, by maintaining price control, which the party of progress does not want – at all the opposite of what the Council of State has signaled, that it wants to liberalize. In the nation today, I see that the young farmer Tor Jacob Solberg challenges the government council on what he said at the Bondeting, namely that you want to liberalize – through the future big shots. I have two questions: Does the Council of State feel that it is possible, based on the political situation, to liberalise, when he sees the majority of the population acting? The second, to follow up on Solberg's question: is there really any other successful European country to refer to that which has gone along the path pointed out by the Council of State, but which is clearly opposed by the majority of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3403	I have a notice on the agricultural sector to come to Stortinget. I'm going to deal with all the questions related to alignment and individual suggestions then. But we don't even need to go abroad to find success stories. This government, in cooperation with the parties, is committed to liberalising the agricultural market, in 2014 and 2015. What we see is that, together with other factors, such as a defensive economic policy, which gives interest reductions, which give rise to investment will, in fact, increase the profitability of agriculture. It does because people see the basis for investing and investing and finding profitability in their own production. Therefore, we do not even need to search out of the country to find a good example of liberalisation working. Among other things, we can do that. look at the grips this government contributed to in 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3408	I think there'll be a lot of disagreements here in history. Many would think that the very effort made under the red-green government, in particular through the budgets adopted, is what is doing today to ensure that, after all, you get as good as you do in terms of income. I have recorded during this debate that the goal of sealing the revenue gap has been expressed by most parties in the Stortinget today as an important objective of agricultural policy – to move from percentages to crowns, and that it is the crowns in the pockets that finally count. And my question is: Would this have any meaning for the Council of State when he next spring, hopefully, perhaps, will design offers to the peasants of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3416	I am glad that the Labour Party hopes that I will design that offer next year. I'm also glad that the Labour Party is expressing that we're all in a state where many come out well. Basically, if we're going to recruit the agricultural sector, and if we're going to make sure that someone chooses the farming profession because it's valuable to produce food, there must also be profitability at the bottom. I find that more and more farmers are afraid to tell me that they are making money. Few things delight a sunmer more than that it is possible to spend money on their own business idea. But income trends over the last three years have been foreshadowed by agriculture. 18.75 p.m. is the analysis on which normalised accounting is based for the period 2014-2017 – significantly more than for other groups. In fact, other groups have forecast an income development for these three years of NOK 41 400, while agriculture is NOK 56 600. I think NOK 56 600 is more than NOK 41 400.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3423	On 8 December last year, Stortinget adopted the soil protection strategy. The government had one mission for this spring, to provide positive instruments for municipalities that make it easier to avoid the degradation of cultivated land. The government writes that the municipality, through its role as local land authority, is the main actor. And that is why the Committee put this at the top of the wish list, in order to get good action. Governments and governments deliver by strengthening the guidance already available to municipalities. The government also refers to NTP. The Committee knew well about NTP when we dealt with this matter in the autumn. We have set an ambitious target for a redisposal of less than 4,000 deches per year. But with respect to reporting – is it to strengthen guidance to municipalities the only positive instrument that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has been able to achieve in one of the main inputs to increase Norwegian food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3430	The government has been asked to provide measures regularly, for the first time in the revised national budget, later also in the budget, which will allow us to reduce the number of rural agricultural land targets to 4000 by 2020. Everything is not done overnight. I need to be honest with that. After all, the main responsibility for regulatory processes lies in the municipalities. I believe that this government and the Christian People's Party have as a common basis of value. One makes the best decisions when they're tight as people live. This means that strengthening the competence of the local government sector, which makes these assessments, is something that a non-gender shouldn't, I think. At the same time, we have pointed to other measures, including: That we're going to follow up on this in NTP. But we will also, in the future, be working on several other proposals, and I am now working closely with the KS to help continue to strengthen the work to achieve this goal in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3435	The government party is happy in the evolution from 2014 to 2017. We may be some of the speakers: 56 500 kroner, 42 000 of these are from the years 2014 to 2015. After that, there is a poorer crown growth than other groups. In his hearing, the Council of State stressed that he regarded a percentage of the same trend as the current income target, as I have understood him. Now he has an attitude that says that a joint committee is behind reducing the income gap between agriculture and others. Does the Council of State still think that the percentage of income development is the current income target for agriculture, or does the Council of State perceive what the Storting has said, as the Storting has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3442	The income target on which this government has based its policy is the same as the Central Party based its policy on the eight preceding years. That that goal is suddenly irresponsible, I thought it was worth noting, also for the other parties that put in that government. I see the comment that Stortinget has given in this setting, and that one asks me to discuss it in the agricultural message, which will come later this year. I have an ambition to do that. At the same time, it is absolutely crucial that one be measured by the results that one actually delivers — not by the Central Party’s perception of the political results. And agricultural income trends are remarkably good, and if we're going to be able to recruit people into the agricultural sector for years to come, the Centre Party should talk about the value of that happening – not down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3451	The majority of agricultural income comes from market revenue, fortunately. And one of the things that's happened in recent years is that market revenue has increased, and in the last farm business, the Progress Party has also increased the target price of more products. We see that one of the biggest income drivers for agriculture is, among other things, that TINE has had a large surplus and has paid Norwegian dairy farmers after 900 million. kr. It's been very important. However, in order to obtain market incomes, Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry depend entirely on the proper functioning of customs protection. We see that there has been a fall in European prices, and these are major challenges, while we see that in the Norwegian market there has been stability, and that money has been made, which has benefited the whole country and the entire Norwegian agriculture. The party of progress strongly criticized the improvements in customs protection that the red-green government did in the previous period, and for which I was at the forefront. The Progress Party has said in the past that it is an objective to reduce customs protection, and then my question to the Council is: Does he also see it as a goal to reduce customs protection, or does he think it is good to have a well-functioning and good customs protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3462	I think that my main task is to enable agriculture to face a situation where an increase in international competition. The majority has decided that Norway should liberalise its agricultural market over time – not without having to do so, but still: The majority has decided that we should liberalise the agricultural market. If we're going to take it over, we also have to assume that it's going to go into a situation now and believe that we can wall ourselves inside, is to trick ourselves and the peasants, one by one, gradually, over time, to meet up with increased international competition, and it's absolutely decisive that this government is able to facilitate that more capable of meeting that competition. For this reason, it is so important that we are able to use the market mechanisms in place to strengthen both production potential and profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3467	In a large number of areas, there is broad agreement between the members of the Committee, both as regards the comments made and in the discussion which has taken place in the Committee. But there is one area that is not very upswing about, but that we, from the Left – also SV – have been concerned about, and it's about drifting loose. In 2008, the Ministry of Agriculture’s Working Party concluded that loose farming improves animal welfare in cattle farming. As I mentioned in my main post, there is a significant investment need to meet the demand for cattle-holding unemployment, especially for small and medium-sized uses. Therefore, the investment instruments need to be increased. It may not be such that by postponing the unbundling requirement for a period of 10 years, one will have a slack in the rate of investment. The tempo must be kept up. The question is then: how will the Council of State contribute to keeping the pace of the transition to the loosing compartment higher than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3474	Norwegian milk production will take place in the future in bulk. I'm completely overly overly perplexed about that. What we've been doing with this agricultural agreement is that those who otherwise had to give up the operation actually get a few more years to change, so we can bring them with us to produce food all over the country, which I feel left is busy with. In these agricultural negotiations, the government was required to increase investment firms by 17 million. kr – common to agriculture. In the supply we gave, we suggested an increase of 26 million. kr, i.e. more than what agriculture demanded. We did so even if we put the operating requirement on the table. It says something about my willingness to help us get through the wave of investment that Norwegian milk producers – and to the extent that some other producers – are ahead of us in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3481	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3486	Following the agricultural settlement two years ago, then Minister of Agriculture Sylvi Listhaug stated that the changes made at that time were the biggest changes ever in Norwegian agricultural policy. That change in course was supported by the government from both the Christian People's Party and the Left, and in retrospect it turns out that the Council of State was right. We have seen that the largest uses have received the very largest part of the cake, at the expense of small and medium-sized applications. Such a priority, in the view of the Labour Party, will contribute to a failure to achieve the objective of agriculture across the country. Agricultural negotiations would offset some of these distortions in the year’s settlement, but the country’s first offer did not. The farming team says that they stress that through the agreement, they were able to negotiate arrangements and ensure the diversity of agriculture better than what was offered by the country, and that is good. The Workers' Party has a tradition of supporting agreements concluded in agricultural settlements in order not to contribute to weakening the negotiating institute. We will, as mentioned earlier, do that this time as well. However, the Economic and Social Committee provides the government with marshalling land in several areas for future settlement and for the forthcoming grubbing-up notifications. An overall committee stresses that the revenue gap should be reduced, even if there has been some confusion on the part of the government parties in the debate on this matter. In addition, a majority of the Committee shall agree on a number of areas which will contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out earlier by the majority. I mention the importance of strong agriculture across the country, based on Norwegian resources. This also ensures a good climate profile. The need for increased development capacity must be followed up with adequate access to investment funds in the years to come. It is important to strengthen the differentiation of instruments in order to maintain profitable operation and a varied use structure. The channelling policy is also climate-smart. Where export aid is phased out, compensatory measures must be implemented. I mention the importance of a reduction in the levying system for milk. This scheme helps to ensure milk production across the country. I hope that the Council of State has noticed and taken into account that the negotiations in the EU, the so-called Article 19 negotiations, must protect Norwegian agriculture as far as possible. These, I believe, are involved in taking Norwegian agriculture in the right direction. It will then be exciting to see whether the cooperative parties manage this majority well to the government in future settlements and in the notified agricultural notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3513	It feels good for a right-wing representative from the farming community Nord-Trøndelag that agreement has been reached on this year's agricultural agreement with the Bondelag. Achieving unity is no obvious thing. First, there are many different interests — from geographical location to different productions — and within organisations. Once these interests have been coordinated, they shall be negotiated with the State, which shall shape its agricultural policy objectives. This is a work of which there is great respect, and for which there is mutual understanding. Driving a profitable and innovative agriculture is based on experience and knowledge. The holder is the self-employed owner who needs to be given new opportunities, inter alia. by simplifying legislation and reporting, which in a single-man enterprise can be a costly time thief. Here I must claim that the government with its supporting parties has delivered. A little bit of control, as we say in Trøndelag, when it's going on, but no one wants to go back to more regulation. Improvements are best achieved in good dialogue with the parties and provide predictability. This shows that developments in Norwegian agriculture are moving in the right direction. It is particularly pleasant for the industry when it is politically decided that Norwegian food production should be increased. In the right, we call this new opportunity for the farmer and the food industry. Remember, this industry is going to feed the Norwegian people at least four times a day. For an opportunity! Although we've always known that it's like this, it feels best when demand is greater. We remember many years of overproduction and frustration, where one had to pay to keep production back. Now the market has turned around. We've become more nordics. Now we pay to produce more food – in line with Stortinget's wish. In this way, production is increasing according to national targets. In Norway, the emphasis is on food quality and health. We're going to take care of that in a clean environment. In conclusion, one should not weep over what one does not get, but rejoices over what one sheep does. Therefore, Stortinget should be happy more than crying in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3528	The agricultural organisations promote their claim, the State of the negotiator Leif Forsell responds with an offer, the distance is great in terms of both the device, the use of instruments and the financial framework, requirements and offers represent two different realities. The outcome of the negotiations is disputed, and there will be many subsequent opinions that are not credible. This has been going on long enough now. Now it has to be over. It is the responsibility of Stortingen to establish a new, honest culture in which the entire negotiating system is restored. The agricultural negotiations between the State and the two agricultural trade unions, the Landelag and the Lande- and Small Farmers Team, are preparing for the Stortingen's treatment of the annual agricultural operations. Both requirements and offers shall be based on the majority will of the Storting and the figures for the negotiations shall be agreed between the parties for the year to which the negotiations shall apply. It's not like that today. The main agreement of 1950 for agriculture states in Section 1 what the purpose of the agricultural negotiations is: ‘The purpose of the Agreement for Agriculture is to regulate measures suitable for the promotion of defined objectives for agriculture.’ There is no doubt that Stortinget has a maritime responsibility to decide on the outcome of the negotiations, cf. NOU 1988:10 on the main agreements in agriculture. When some large-scale representatives say that it is only to vote in favour of the proposed proposal and that something else would be to weaken legitimacy or be contrary to the contractual institution, this is a constitutional error. The situation today is this: while the Stortinget says that agriculture should increase food production on Norwegian resources, the actual situation is that Norwegian agriculture's ability to produce food with Norwegian resources is weakened every year. The approval of previous agricultural settlements by the Storting has led to a development in Norwegian agriculture that is not in line with Storting’s objectives. This fact is otherwise pointed out by the National Audit Office. There is nothing new that there is a conflict between different objectives for Norwegian agriculture, but rarely has it been more visible than today. Over the last few years, these target conflicts have been prioritised in order to reduce the main societal task of agriculture, namely the national production of sufficient and safe agricultural food that we can naturally produce in Norway. The cereal price provides the basis for the feed price and the feed price determines the value of the grass produced. The price of power-feed is determined in the farm. Today’s extremely low feed price leads to more and more ruminant animal production based on power feed and less and less on grass. The majority of the population have expressed their desire for increased maritime supply. In that case, the same large size cannot facilitate the prices of milk, meat and power feed and the costs of grass making the use of imported power feed more and more profitable for farmers. Norway is growing again. When we are familiar with the confusion that exists in the agricultural debate, it is important to clarify what is meant by the goal of increasing food production on Norwegian resources. In this context, the following proposals for decisions are presented: ‘The size suggests that ‘increased food production in Norwegian resources’ means that plant production in Norway needs to increase and that cereal imports need to be reduced.’ I'm dealing with my proposal no. On this basis and with this article, it is also natural and necessary for me to vote against the approval of this year's agricultural agreement, and I will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3556	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3559	Agriculture blows lives in our country. This is what we are going to build on and improve, and the Norwegian model of agriculture with agricultural negotiations and cooperatives, customs-based import protection, budgetary support and property regulation are important building blocks separately, and crucial for putting together. The right-hand side has often over time pointed out that you want to build down this model, which actually works. The right-wing Party government would prefer to cut budget support, but had to go through the negotiations in the agricultural settlement. So all the honor and praise to the Farmers' Team, who have taken responsibility and agreed on this year's agricultural settlement. Nevertheless, the government of the agreement continues the direction of the former agricultural settlement under the Solberg Government. In 2014, there was a turnaround in grants for greater use, leading to an increase in the income gap between small and medium-sized uses and wider use. In the year’s settlement, arrangements were negotiated to ensure that the diversity of agriculture is improved according to what was offered by the country. One hundred million. Budget support is now targeted at small and medium-sized rural applications. The majority of the population, without the Right and the Advance Party, are clearly aware that it is important to strengthen the differentiation of the instruments so as to maintain a varied use structure and ensure sustainable production of the agricultural area throughout the country. The same majority believe that the government has not sufficiently followed up the soil protection strategy. Although this settlement has focused more on small and medium-sized applications, it is worth noting that in its three years of power, as the representative Storberget said, the government has only gone in with 145 million. kr, compared to the last three red-green years, where we went in by 1 billion. the increase in budgetary resources. With this settlement, the government has crossed its own policy of sending a greater bill to consumers, by increasing target prices and increasing budgetary resources, despite its own promises to reduce them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3574	There may be different opinions about the agricultural contract institute, but I choose to believe that most people agree with me that a consensus on the agreement is the best starting point for good cooperation further. I therefore take the opportunity to thank the Lander for constructive cooperation and contribution to a good agreement that provides the basis for a forward-looking agriculture. It is also gratifying to read in the United Nations on 26 May that the number of bankruptcies in agriculture has halved since 2011. The agricultural bank manager of the SR-bank points out that the largest producers, who were previously most exposed to bankruptcy, were well-counted in the agricultural settlement in both volume and grant terms. In addition, the economy in general has improved due to a longer period of higher prices of food and increased subsidies to agriculture. Good grass crops also contribute to the growth of production. Farmers run a healthy economy, have good financial management and produce high-quality products. Compared to other European countries, we have a very healthy animal strain. Highly low levels of antibiotics are used, and Norway is perhaps the country that has invested most in serious breeding work. In recent years, there has been record investment in agriculture. The government has increased the investment funds by 26.5 million. SEK to nearly 600 million. kr. As a member of the board of Innovation Norway in the South-Trøndelag, I can confirm that these are funds for which there is a large request. Investment funds are particularly targeted as younger people invest more than older people, and those who invest do so to facilitate the next generation. Nevertheless, there are the many good feedbacks from the farmers I choose to listen to about the times in agriculture. In ten days I will pack the practical car and drive the veterinary surgeon for three to four weeks. In my work I meet many different farmers. What pleases me the most is to see and hear that they thrive in their profession. It is to be admitted that there were heavy years ago when those who had invested in new plumbing and operating equipment had a difficult financial situation. For those who have invested and invested in the future, conditions have improved considerably, such as: the distortion of the grant from the area to the production. It has stimulated increased production and better use of resources. Nor should we forget that there has been a raging development in the technological field of agriculture. The milking robot, feeding machines and automated harvesting lines help to have more animals and to operate larger areas with fewer annual works. The working day of a farmer, similar to the working day of many other occupations, has become quite different in a few years. As in other industries and professions, we must welcome technological developments and improve efficiency and not try to put the brakes on, as I feel that some other parties here are trying.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3591	It's not cigarettes people most die of," said Gunhild Stordalen when she opened the EAT conference in Stockholm on Monday morning. Furthermore, she said that there is no terror either, no wars, no car accidents, no falls in the bathtub. It's the food that gets to have on us eventually. Sometimes people die of too little food, elsewhere of too much. About two billion of the world's population have too little to eat, while almost the same number are obese. Malnutrition accounts for one third of all child deaths in the world. As a health policy, I would like to say that food policy, that is a major policy. The main societal task of Norwegian agriculture is to ensure sufficient safety and variety of good quality food. However, agriculture also contributes to settlement and business life across the country, environmental goods such as the conservation of biodiversity, cultural landscapes and the carbon stock function of forests and soil. Agriculture provides living communities. And agriculture contributes to our common good. In a world with a growing population, agriculture is a national responsibility of most nations. The Labour Party believes that there is reason to pay tribute to the League of Bonds, as several from my party have said in this debate, despite all the fact that they have had an agreement negotiated. The majority in Stortinget, with the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have supported the change in price we have seen in recent years, with a redistribution of subsidies from small and medium-sized applications. We have noticed that the Minister of Agriculture believes that this year's agreement continues the lines of the last two agricultural operations, and this is a change of course, the Workers' Party has not supported. Although the agreement significantly continues the profile of previous settlements, we see it as positive that in this year's agreement there is movement towards strengthening small and medium-sized applications. We believe it is necessary to achieve the Storting's goal of increased food production based on Norwegian resources. The setting in the case is a clear message to the government. The decline in agriculture on which the Government of the Party of Advancement and the Right has tried to do so is quite categorically refuted by the majority of the population at the time of the year’s settlement. The responsibility for safe food production is other than the government that has taken so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3606	It is a very important and superior principle that all countries manage their own resource base in such a way that one has food production to feed their population. National food production is a solidarity in a world where many people are starving. Norway does not have a large food production area. We have plenty of mountains, forests and water and little cultivated land. What we have of food soils must be used to produce grain where it is based, and otherwise to grass production. The large grazing resources in the valleys and mountains can only be cultivated by ruminants such as sheep, goats, cows and other cattle. Then we have to have a high number of animals in Western states – Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal. A lot of work and high knowledge is required to drive livestock, milk production and meat production here. Large parts of the area in these states are small and steep by nature. They border on fjords, water, rivers, and streams, road, hammers, and mountains. For those who think heads and ears, the area is heavy and inefficient, but that's this country we have, and it's these areas that need to be driven. The agricultural agreement currently being discussed by the Stortinget shall provide the basis for whether or not these western land should be used economically in the future. But everyone who knows the West sees that large areas are being used less and more and after a quarter are growing again. This is contrary to the people's understanding of Stortinget's multi-territorial will to increase the self-sufficiency rate of agricultural products. This negative development is a result of the choice of the individual garden users within the framework and prospects that one sees for the use of its own garden. Large areas in the West are driven, not by, but by current agricultural policy. It is the Stortinge that is responsible for clarifying what is going on with agriculture in the West. On a self-evident basis, the size must decide on the outcome of the negotiations, whether it is in line with the agricultural policy which benefits the country or not. In this setting, the Storting double communication in this area is clearly shown. But if you don't want a varied use structure with profitable operations also on many of the small and heavy-powered areas in the West, you have to be honest and say it. According to the programme of the Centre Party, I believe that one must support the proposal to increase food production on Norwegian resources, which means that plant production in Norway must increase and that cereal imports must be reduced. It must pay to produce grass in the West – quite simply.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3621	First, I would like to join all those who have expressed joy at the fact that there was agreement between the League of Bonds and the State also in the course of the year's negotiations. It is important that a large majority in the United Kingdom join the negotiating result. It is important for the negotiating institute that the parties agree to be adopted. I want to comment on some points. The Committee stresses that the main task of agriculture is to produce food. In the interests of preparedness, resource utilisation, value creation, employment and climate change, it is important that Norwegian agriculture produces the food that it is natural to produce in Norway and to an extent that can cover domestic demand and profitable exports. I noticed that during the debate on the review by the National Audit Office of the work of the Governing Boards to achieve the objectives of organic farming, the representative Per Olaf Lundteg asked the question: What is most important: to increase food production or to operate organically? His conclusion was that increased food production had to go ahead, and I am inclined to agree. But my further question is: is it not also relevant to other factors where the production target is contrary to other agricultural objectives? I have some points that I want to point out. The first is, it's worth producing. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party point to the fact that the distortions in the grant schemes to stimulate increased food production and more efficient farming from 2014 to 2015 are also taken into account for the agreement of the year. This provides predictability for agriculture and facilitates farmers who want to invest and invest in Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production to continue to have good opportunities through this agreement. Secondly, it must be allowed to bet. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, further points out that there is great optimism and investment in Norwegian agriculture. It is important, not least for recruitment to the industry, that it is possible for the individual farmer to modernise and further develop all types of use. Thirdly, agricultural policy must embrace both large, medium and small uses. If we are to achieve the production target, we must give all uses an opportunity to develop the potential of each farm and be effective. The government has set up a policy in which farms with large areas and large production are also paid for their additional production. On the other hand, I would like to express my joy at the fact that the unloading requirement is being pushed out in time. I think any requirement that triggers a need for significant investment will lead to the automatic liquidation of many uses, not least where you are close to a generation change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3638	There was agreement between the State and the Norwegian Bondelag on the agricultural agreement for 2016-2017. That's good. The Workers' Party is committed to maintaining the system of annual negotiations between agriculture and the State on important framework conditions for the industry. The negotiating institute is important both for industry and for consumers. We see it as taking part in the responsibility for food production in the world. We have the goal of increasing production by 20 pst. It is possible to do this if we use the whole country and correct the instruments so that not only the main uses are met. In 2014, there was a turnaround in grants for greater use, leading to an increase in the income gap between small and medium-sized and larger uses. It's going in the wrong direction. It is important for the industry that this year, through the negotiations, the Bondelag has generated 100 million. kr in increased budget support, specifically targeted at small and medium-sized applications. That's going in the right direction. This is important. Our country is organized in such a way that in many places there is only a basis for many small uses that cannot be easily combined into one large one. Then we're going to have to take the consequences of it, base it on the structure we have, and on the local resources in terms of grazing and access to roughage, and address the support measures to a greater extent. In this way it will also be possible to reduce imports of feed. The Labour Party wants agriculture all over the country. It strengthens scattered settlements, and it creates living communities. If we are to succeed in maintaining and developing agriculture throughout the country, there must be incomes to live on. It is necessary to build up the profitability of agriculture, also targeting small and medium-sized uses, in terms of both operational and investment resources. If young people are to bet on agriculture, it must be predictable and possible to live from it. So finally, the pressure on the food soil for other purposes is strong, especially near the big cities. It's worrying. Such a small part of Norway's area is suitable for cultivation soils, so we have no more to cover for other purposes. The food soil is busy. I would say that the food soil must be locked for the use it should have, it has been developed over many generations for its purpose and will not be used for anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3651	The government is committed to stimulating increased food production and facilitates it through the grips of the year’s agricultural agreement. The framework of the agreement provides for farmers to be re-represented as higher income growth than for other groups of society. With a frame of 350 million. DKK, of which 100 million. New appropriations for the State budget facilitate an increase in revenue of 3,1 p.m. for farmers in the coming year. It must be described as a good development of income at a time when large parts of Norwegian working life can expect moderate increases in income, if any. In view of the strong growth of incomes in agriculture over the last two years, this really has to be described as particularly good income trends. The structural changes made in 2014 and continued in 2015 are also fixed in this agreement. As a result, the government continues to stimulate food production and efficient farming. It has been important to ensure that the framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture are kept predictable over time. At the same time, this year's agreement prioritises new investment funds of 575 million. kr in investment aid. The government also strengthens grass and livestock production in those parts of the country that have the prerequisites for this, and grain and plant production where it is best suited. This strengthens competitiveness for both small and larger uses across the country, and a greater proportion of production can be made with Norwegian resources. In total, this year’s agreement provides good conditions for those who want to invest in producing food in Norway, and a good basis for a modern Norwegian agriculture for both today’s and next generation farmers. Under this government, the income growth of farmers has been formidable and significantly higher than that of other groups in society. Investments are increasing, the search for education is good, and the rate of closure is falling. This signals that the optimism is higher than under the red-green ones. Now the arrows are pointing up – it deserves Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3664	Norwegian agriculture is a major success story, and especially now, at a time when we see a decline in the labour market, it is important to remember the ringing effects of Norwegian agriculture from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. Only directly in food production and in the food industry is it up to 100,000 annual works, and then you have to think about all the ringing effects as well. So the agricultural policy that we have pursued has created great values over a long period of time, and it provides the basis for unique and good food production. We have had an agricultural agreement that has given stability and predictability to the industry, we have a cooperative system that has enabled us to deliver goods throughout Norway – it has given stability and security to the producer – and we have had a well-functioning customs protection. All three have been premises that we have been able to develop the food production we have. The main funding for this year's settlement is that we have a well-functioning customs protection. There have also been the last two settlements, and it is therefore strange when the Council of State says rhetorically that we cannot wall ourselves in, when the Council of State itself uses the space for action in customs protection to increase prices. And what has been the success in Norway in the last year, as opposed to agriculture in our neighbouring countries, is that there has been stability in commodity prices. In Denmark and Germany, commodity prices for milk are now down to DKK 1.70 per litre, while in Norway there are over DKK 5. Who wants to lose the most if you reduce customs protection? Well, it's the biggest manufacturers that are absolutely most vulnerable, as today's government says they're going to bet on. For another milk producer who would then be able to obtain e.g. A little over 3 kr less per litre, and they produce 900,000 liters, which is the dream goal of the Advance Party, that is 2.7 million. kr less in market income. So the policy you pursue must be overdue, because if you want people to bet, build big chickens and invest between 10 and 15 million. kr, as many people do, those who invest must know that there is predictability in it. Because if you reduce the customs barriers, it is not profitable to produce, for example. It is so much cheaper to import milk in Norway, because it is so much cheaper to import it from Germany or from Denmark. And therefore, the Council of State of the Chair should be clear that, of course, a Norwegian government wants stability for Norwegian producers and for the Norwegian food industry, and then one should not hide behind a rhetoric and say that it is about walling in. It is about providing stability for Norwegian food production. So my call – and challenge – to the Council of State now at the end of the debate is that he goes up and makes clear that we have nothing to give in customs negotiations with the EU, that it is wise that we have that customs protection. It has given stability, it has given jobs, and it gives values that benefit the whole community that we have predictability in that system as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3674	Since the issue of the Agricultural Agreement Institute has been debated during the debate, and in particular from the representative Lundtigen, I find at least reason to say, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that we do not regard it at all as a constitutional breach, or to be contrary to the constitution, that we believe that it is important to have a high threshold before intervening in a negotiated agricultural agreement. We have our constitutional right and duty to take both the law and the decision to grant it, but at the same time we also have a duty to do it as we see it as the most politically beneficial society. I just have to repeat: we believe from the Labour Party that it is absolutely essential if we are to be able to increase Norwegian food production, that we are able to take care of the negotiating institute, which in many ways gives manufacturers a good round in the spring. I honestly believe that the industry would have lost a lot if we had lost that opportunity – in the historical sense. So you could say it would have been more this year, but it's also part of the constitutional obligation and the choice you make. Then I would also like to stress very strongly that I do not think that the government and the Council of State have come very well from it, linked to their devotion to liberalistic thought goods in the case of Norwegian agricultural policy. There are several who call for both good examples of this and perhaps even countries. But what's sad is that we use, and have used, a lot of the three years that have gone by, to reverse liberalistic advances and actually have very little to discuss what kind of instruments are beneficial to politics and food production. And I have to say that something particularly liberalistic sucks out in the population or in the farmers or in other actors, I do not feel that it is related to Norwegian food production – rather on the contrary. So my thin invitation to the Council of State at the bottom of the debate must be: use now when writing this big message, to write about what is actually the bulk of the population involved, namely to increase food production – that it should be climate-smart, that this should be the answer to the future related to green industry, that we should be able to continue to recruit, that we should have instruments that help us to invest in food production, and not least what is at the root of Mr Lundtigen's proposal: that we can use even more of the plant resources here in Norway. I believe that one of the key elements of future agricultural policy is strengthening the Norwegian cereal economy. If we could get a big message and a big debate on these elements, and not just one – I was saying – demonstration related to some kind of liberalistic thought, then we could take good political steps forward to increase Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3683	This year’s agreement facilitates an increase in production on Norwegian resources. It prioritises productions where there is the greatest potential for increase by taking market share from imports: cattle, cereals and the green sector. It stimulates the increased use of land resources and reduces the incentive to move to grass in typical cereal areas. It is important both to increase the aggregate production and to reduce the imports of raw materials into power-feed, because it provides the basis for higher cereal production than otherwise. The agreement also takes into account the small and medium-sized users, combined with the firmness of the grips that one did with respect to them with the largest resource base. We don't help the little ones by preventing the big ones from getting involved and contributing, for over 80 pst. agricultural production comes from use with more than one annual work. If production is to increase, everyone must have the opportunity to increase their output, and then on the basis of the resources available to them. So the setting and agreements ensure that Norwegian agriculture is based on increased food production across the country in small and large – and large is good. The agreement also provides security for the many young people who have invested in agriculture and provides a security that we have not seen before. The agreement also provides for an increase in income per year that we have not seen for a long time. As many people have said, it generates an income increase of 19 pst. from 2014 to 2017, and the number of use actually increased. Young people are investing in new common poultry, and we're keeping up the operation on the same volume of land as before. It shows an optimism like it's been a long time since we've seen it. We produce enough eggs and sheep meat to meet our own needs. Some call for this with import protection. I agree with the council when he says, "It doesn't help to get inside." We live in a world where Norway is particularly dependent on trade in the outside world, and then the solution is not to build walls around us. Finally, when one hears the red-green parts complaining about the result that has now emerged, the small user team has broken for six of the last seven years. What does that mean? This means that these parties have not provided any particular advantage in relation to the negotiating institute. On the contrary, the blue-blue government has managed to deliver better than the red-green manage ment of the time they put with responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3698	I feel that we have had a rather clarifying debate, but there are many numbers – and a lot of information – that are used in creative ways. It is claimed that income differences increase under the red-green government. One is very busy with income growth from 2014 to 2017, without wanting to say that the big growth came from 2014 to 2015. One avoids telling you that the soil protection arrows have turned around, and Oskar J. Grimstad's last post here could almost get the impression that the year's data implies a reduction in income differences. It says in the proposition that income differences increase by NOK 2000 per year. Then I think we should stick to that. The same Oskar J. Grimstad indicated that the Small User Team has broken for six of the last seven years. He might as well have said six out of the last eight, but such a sense of reality does not fit in openly. Then the Center Party is the first to rejoice over things that go well in Norwegian agriculture. First of all, we're a little pleased that we've got a new government council in this area. The party is the same, but it's much easier to have a reasonable agricultural debate. I think that's positive for agriculture. The other thing we can rejoice at is that we have a peasantry that is robust enough to stand up to four years with a blue-blue government. And if the crops are good, it's like we're happy about it in the centre part, either we're sitting on the tractor, or we're sitting in the main hall. When it applies to the income measures, it appears that there is significant confusion between the Right and the Progress Party. I am pleased that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have been so clear that there will be a close gap here. When it comes to strengthening the differentiation of the tools, it is obvious that here the Right Party and the Progress Party have understood what it says, because they are not on that note. It's just as full a plural comment. It must have consequences. When it comes to the representative Lundtigen's description of the constitutional aspects of the agricultural settlement, I mainly share it, but I wish that after the 2017 election, the Progress Party and the Right vote for concluded agricultural agreements, even if they feel that they were too good. The annual discussion is also relevant. It was shown that the majority of production takes place in gardening over one year. I don't have the impression that there's this type of use the government is talking about, when a person talks about making the big ones bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3711	The leaders of the centre party challenge me specifically on customs protection. There will always be a debate and a necessary balance between customs duty and duty-free import quotas. Under the Central Party in the Government, the duty-free import quotas – through Article 19 negotiations and the agreements they obtained at that time – increase, but the Centre Party may feel confident that this government is negotiating with a view to upholding Norwegian interests in the Article 19 negotiations. Two things that surprise me, or at least I think it is necessary to sum up in this debate, is that everyone wants more food production, but no one wants it to pay off to produce more. I don't think we get wages in production and more food production unless there's incentive to produce more. And why is it wrong – in agriculture, unlike in all other sectors – that if you deliver two liters of milk, you are paid twice as much as if you deliver one? Why is it a problem that this is the case in Norwegian agricultural policy? I think it's obvious that it's worth producing more. One must be paid twice as much if one produces two litres of milk as if one produces one litre of milk. I think that when more people are talking about increasing grass production and less feed imports, there has to be one final result, namely that it will be less profitable to produce grass in cereal areas – as I first laid down in the country’s supply – because it is the only thing that can end the production of grain domestically. If this is the signal I'm going to take with me from this debate, it makes me calm. But to all those who think that increasing the feed price is the only blessing, I ask myself, how do they think it will turn out for the pig producers and for the chicken producers? Is not the production they contribute to, important for Norwegian agriculture? Is not their bottom line important? Should we just increase the feed prices, which makes them less competitive? And then there's always a discussion in Stortinget relating to soya and importing it. I wanted to wish that we had climatic conditions to produce our own protein – but we don't. When we couldn't help using fishmeal and meat-and-bone meal in our feed, we had to replace it with another protein source. All those attacking imports of soya have in common that they do not point to alternative protein sources for Norwegian feed. This means – if one is going to take them seriously – less competitiveness for those industries in Norway that are totally dependent on the fact that the feed has a price that makes it possible to produce in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3731	A few comments on the statements made in the debate. The Workers' Party and the Centre Party stressed that they spent 1 billion. kr on agriculture in its last three years of government. That's a lot of money. And what did we get for so much money? Yes, almost 40,000 uses were dropped. Re-disposal of cultivated land was historically high, food production decreased, imports increased, and there was poor recruitment to the industry. I also remember very well the protests and demonstrations under the red-green government, even though it was the Center Party that directed the Ministry of Agriculture. During the last government period, it was said that the Workers' Party was not the easiest negotiating partner in terms of money for agriculture. The working party also talks about differentiation and structure and will actually reverse the changes that this government has made. In this context, it may be worth remembering that it was actually the Workers' Party that speeded up the structuralisation of the Brundtland government in the 1990s, because they clearly saw that it was necessary. This is quite detailed in Per Harald Grue's memoirs, volume two, which I have on the night table. The Labour Party's policy was then quite similar to that of the Right Party Government today, and the parties actually had many common proposals during that period. In fact, the working party has had in its programme that they will strengthen the role of farmers as self-employed workers, they will reduce detail management and have increased use of market signals. It has been said that the incomes of individual farmers are the result of a number of factors decided upon by the practitioners. Then it remains to be seen whether the Workers' Party has really undergone such a big change as it sounds today. Thank you for a long and good debate. We are pleased that the government has received a majority for large parts of the position, which we hope and believe will continue and strengthen the positive development that we see in agriculture today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3748	I am happy to have a discussion about the cereal and feed policy, because if you don't have it on your care, you don't have the rest on your care. The price of power-feed is determined in the farm. The feed price defines the value of grass. Low feed price gives low value to grass. The low feed price results in a high consumption of feed, resulting in increased imports of feed. That's what the Council of State knows, and that's why we're at a key point. When the Council of State says that the pig producers are seriously affected, it is wrong. Pigs are among the most efficient in processing feed for meat. It is most pronounced for sheep and lambs and then for cattle – just those animals that have the ability to eat grass. Increased feed prices have been discussed in Norwegian agricultural policy over all years. There have been disagreements about this, but it is important to clarify here that it is a key to understanding that Norway is growing again. Low prices of power-feed result in Norway growing again, resulting in excess of round-balls, because it is not profitable for farmers to use it grass. The use of power feed is more profitable. The second point I would like to make is that the State Council of the Progress Party is proud of the agricultural policy of the Advance Party. Let's do a little blood test. The Party of Progress will weaken the protection of imports. The right is not working to have any own Norwegian agricultural food market at all. It is said here that one should not wall himself inside. As the Right says, so fun: what's the consequence? – a strong reduction in market prices. It hits those who run the biggest, most. As a result, they must have even greater appropriations for the State budget. They'll be even more state-run. The Progress Party and the Right Party's policies are more state governance of the large-scale farms – contrary to what they're trying to tell us. It's less robust what they do. What the Progress Party and the Right are doing is to lead Norwegian agriculture more and more in the same direction as Denmark, with enormous debt burdens, with enormous vulnerability to interest rate policy. It is not good for a youth to embark on a policy that almost doubles the volume per hour every ten years. I can't. I will, as an old county sagrom, warn young people not to board this. It's vulnerable, it's risky, it's not safe. What is needed is the policy to be reformed. One must not invest so heavily in large buildings, but invest in soil, in fertile soil, because we have too little soil. It is the soil that forms the basis for plant production and it is the soil in which it needs to be invested in order to increase the degree of maritime supply. That is the essence of my proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3761	If we talk the agriculture a lot more down now, I think Lundtigen gets his will: no one dares to bet on agriculture. In the line change, I asked the representative... from the Workers' Party...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3768	Knut Storberget. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3771	Knut Storberget, yes... sorry. I asked the representative Storberget some questions about what was going on in order to increase food production in Norway, and the representative said that soil protection was one of the things that was important for the Workers' Party. It is important for the Progress Party as well. We have a soil protection strategy that is agreed upon in Stortinget. We're going to relate to it, and it's important that we relate to it. It is also important to see how developments in redisposal have been in recent years. It's had a positive development, it's in a positive development, and I think the target we've set for 4000 dekar by 2020 is clearly achievable. At the same time, it is important to take into account that we cultivate a good deal of land in Norway. In 2015, we cultivated over 16 000 dean, and in 2014 over 18 000 dean. This is, of course, a contribution to increasing production in Norway. The representative also argued that instruments such as investments were important. In this farm settlement, we're increasing investment funds by 26.5 million. NOK 574.5 million. kr. The maximum percentage of the generation shift grant under this scheme is increased by 10 percentage points. This helps young people to get in, and perhaps those who are on their way out are investing more, so that they facilitate the situation for their youth. He also said that increased profitability is important. I fully agree with that. Increased profitability is important in order to be able to operate Norwegian agriculture. As it now appears, the accounts show that the income development of agriculture under this government is likely to be clearly higher than that of other groups — more than twice the percentage — and clearly higher in kronor. In 2006, agricultural income was 47 pst. of the income of other groups. Now the number is 66 pst. This suggests that the revenue gap has been reduced. Finally, Pollestad was concerned that we should vote in favour of the agricultural agreement after 2017. Of course we will. It is an agricultural agreement that the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration is also in place – because we are, of course, also in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3786	The President expects the representative to be aware that what is said in the Stortinget takes a stenographic record.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3790	State Council Dale was concerned about Norwegian chicken producers in the discussion on power feed. It is almost touching to hear a Progress Party State Council worry about Norwegian chicken producers. If there is one industry that has really experienced the irresponsibility of the Progress Party in agricultural policy, it is that industry. You just doubled the concession at a time when you were supposed to have a balance in the market. This has meant that many individual manufacturers have had to close down, and it is very uncertain how many families have invested from 4 million. I'll give you $8 million. kr in chickenhouse. That's what's so important when we're dealing with politics: you don't just have to do things without looking at the consequences. This was an example of that. It was an ideological project for Sylvi Listhaug just to double the concession without assessing the consequences for the individual. When we take power again, we can't just make adjustments at full speed overnight without thinking about the consequences of the adjustments, because at the end of the day it's all about single families and individuals who've made huge and heavy investments. Therefore, stability in agricultural policy is needed. That's why it's so irresponsible what you did, among other things. for chicken. Therefore, it is so irresponsible when you refer to customs protection as it is to wall in. It's about the safety of the families that are now investing up to 10 to 15 million. kr in new poultry. They must then have a certainty that we will stand up for them and that it is safe for them to follow the Progress Party Council now to make a heavy investment. Then you have to say, of course, customs protection is good. It's a good thing we have it. It has ensured value creation, it has ensured security for families, and it has ensured activity all around Norway, and we will also do so in the future. The rhetoric we've heard before was about the fact that it's walling inside, being a protectionist and putting on nisselua, and I got all sorts of characteristics when I was a councillor and heard that it was unwise. You see that it's necessary. In any case, lots that they normally claim to be engaged in market revenue should be engaged in securing market revenue for Norwegian producers. Then it is also a real orientation. When we talk about large Norwegian milk producers, it's small farms. In Norway, there are some and twenty averages. In Denmark, it was when I was the Council of State – it is probably higher now – about 140. So even though the Progress Party would get full penetration, the Norwegian milk producers are small farms. Danish milk production has a lot of trouble, they can't compete even though they're so big. There are huge bankruptcies in Danish agriculture. If we are to secure our production, we must stand up for these supports. It should also be safe and dry to say from the pulpit, that of course he has to stand up for it, that they were wise, the improvements that have been made, that you have to do everything you can to ensure that it does not weaken, because it is good for the farmer, that is good for the industry, and that is good for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3801	The distortions of the subsidy scheme to stimulate increased food production and more efficient farm operation from 2014 and 2015 are also underlying the agricultural agreement of the year. This provides predictability for agriculture, and it facilitates that farmers who really want to invest and invest in Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production still have good opportunities through this agreement. The distortions in the grant from area to production have been very successful so far, and I would remind you that where there was a previous loss of lamb meat, we are now self-sufficient. It shows that farmers respond well to adjustments in grants. It is also expected that Norwegian beef may be under-covered in the future, and it will be less when the quality premium for beef class O+ is almost doubled. This shows that, in practice, it is quite the opposite of what is claimed from the pulpit, that it is the fury of agriculture. There is great optimism and investment in Norwegian agriculture, and it is therefore important, not least for recruitment to industry, that it is possible for individual farmers to modernise and further develop all types of use. I'm pointing out that that's why it's also set at 575 million. kr for agricultural investment aid. In addition, the government's distortion of subsidies and changes in some upper quota limits facilitate a greater degree of structural differentiation and greater use of economies of scale in production. At the same time, the structural differentiation of grants has been maintained, which means that the level of aid is relatively higher for smaller producers. The distinction in the grants has also been maintained. I would like to remind you once again that there is optimism and investment in Norwegian agriculture, and that suggests that the policy that is being pursued today, where you get earnings after production, is successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3814	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3817	What I said in my first post was that there is no doubt that Stortinget has a maritime responsibility to decide on the outcome of the negotiations. When some large-scale representatives say that it is only to vote in favour of the proposed proposal and that something else would weaken the legitimacy of, or conflict with, the contractual institution, this is a constitutional error. That's my opinion, and I'm on it. The representative of Storberget said that there would be a high threshold to intervene in the negotiated agreement. Yes, I understand that. When one does not intervene in the negotiated agreement, it is because one believes that it is the best thing to do. Saying that one just has to say yes anyway, is not correct. If you agree to this agreement, the degree of maritime supply is weakened. It is the foremost social task of agriculture. That is why a vote must be against this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3824	The representative of Trygve Slagsvold Vedum has pointed out in several articles the importance of customs protection for Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian consumers. That's in particular right. For single use and single product, it is particularly important in many contexts, but for the Norwegian economy and Norwegian prosperity and long-term prosperity development, it is probably not quite right that this is going to be so very important. The size has an ambition to five–sixfold the value of the aquaculture industry. We are struggling with market access to China, we are struggling with market access to Russia, and the EU is, and will be, one of our most important markets. Once in the future, if we are to realize the dream of six-folding the value of the aquaculture industry and our seafood production, we may need to be willing to discuss just customs protection in the future. Now, in the EEA Agreement, we cannot link fish and agriculture. The government hasn't done it and connected it, but I think that day will come, and the initiative to connect fish and agriculture must come from this room and not from the EU. I also hope and believe that that day must come, and I also believe in Norwegian agriculture, that we could be Europe's dining room with clean and good food and could sell it to the European Union in a good way, in line with the fact that we are dealing with them. More interaction with the EU, I believe Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian business are good, and we have a lot to look forward to if we can get a better interaction with the EU on precisely this with customs barriers and customs protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3833	The debate is coming to an end, and I need to be clear about the fact that when the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen of the Central Party clearly warns new people against going into the industry, despite – despite, President – that pay rises, he does wrong Norwegian agriculture. We need Norwegian agricultural production. The centre party uses to express that they are concerned that there should be people across the country, and such a clear warning, as Lundteg argues, against new generations choosing agriculture in spite of positive income trends, I think I'm very unhappy. For this reason, I am pleased that the party leader in the Center Party, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, is very clear on one thing, and that is that the big practices in Norway too are very small. I think that is the best competitive advantage for Norwegian agriculture. We don't produce food like everyone else. We breed healthy animals instead of medicate the sick. For generations, Norwegian farmers have developed their livestock production to be resilient. The technology that they have developed, not by me, but by their own knowledge, is export product for Norway. We produce food that consumers have high confidence in, because they know that when they choose a Norwegian product, a food that does not trigger a public health risk for them. It is the competitive advantage of Norwegian agriculture. Talking down the value of what I think there's reason to warn against, because that's the main reason why consumers should choose Norwegian food in the future as well, because we do things differently. I'm glad that consumers in most cases today do well, but then we're dependent on a total accumulation actually lifting what Norwegian agriculture has done over time – completely independent of the government that is always doing – to be busy with the way we produce our food, rather than talking down on the value of what is being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3840	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3843	As a Norwegian wheat producer, I encourage everyone to eat Norwegian wheat balls – no, it's not serious. But the point is, to Ove Trellevik: it's so unwise to set different industries up against each other. I don't understand why the Right is doing it. Why should they set up Norwegian fishing industry against Norwegian agricultural industry? They did that in the last customs battle we had. When I went to the EU and defended the improvement of customs protection, the EU did not take it up. They did not set the industries up against each other, but when I came home to Norway, the Norwegian giant put them up against each other. The Right Party and the Progressive Party set up Norwegian fishing industries against Norwegian agriculture. There's no reason. Every country has offensive and defensive interests, and standing up for our food production is a good thing, and it's not unlike fish. These industries depend on each other. They shall support each other and not compete with each other. On the right, it should be noted that in 1994 access to a duty-free EU market was set against access to the Norwegian seas. So there are completely different debates. We have to stop setting our industries up against each other. We have to back up on both of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3848	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3851	It was probably late in the debate that Right released the cat from the bag and blamed Norwegian agriculture for the difficulties of selling fish to Russia and China. If that's the government's view, the government will live with it. The comments we are adopting today, I am sure will be read in depth until the next entry, both in the subject and in the department. There are many positive features here, but I think that we should reach the goal, so the parties in this room, which wants Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production to work together and lay the groundwork for a more long-term accession decision that young people and those in the industry can stick to, so that one can turn Norwegian agriculture into a generation project and not a project from quarter to quarter, as the current government adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3858	There are some words, some concepts, the Center Party chooses to skip when discussing agricultural policy. Competitiveness is, in fact, an important concept also for the agricultural industry. Market access is also as important as the protection of imports for the agricultural industry. I see it that when the representative of the Battle of Vedum was the Council of State and traveled around Europe and met the voices there that were not at all linked to meatballs and fishballs, then he has had a very selective journey, once and for all when we are out, we meet parliamentarians from European countries who say: you cannot have it protected while you want to get away cheaply with their fish. But this is for the right a debate on balanced market access and balanced customs protection. That is why we have said that we should have a policy that also rigs agriculture with a competitive force that will enable us to face up to the changes that are taking place in the future. «My boat is so small and the sea so large» was an old psalm. Sometimes I get that feeling when I hear the representative Battle Violence Vedum, because he runs a branch for the Spring Lord in many ways. It may not be that agriculture is left to some strong political force where someone from above is to protect it. We must probably be realistically oriented towards agricultural policy in the future. That's what makes us get young people into the industry. When the representative Pollestad says this is going to be a generation project, well, I don't have any faith in it, simply because I don't believe that Norwegian youth today all the time thinks it's going to be a generation project to take over this farm and run it. Norwegian youth today as I meet, says that they will have an obvious way into the industry, but at the same time they will be able to see a way out of the industry. Why? Well, today things are changing a lot, much more so for young people. You can meet a partner, you can change your career along the way, you want to look a way out, while you see a way in. This means that we have to have a policy that will make it possible to buy a farm, while in the future it will also be possible to sell that farm and not walk away from it, which unfortunately we are experiencing today that some people do. It is the clear signals from young people who are in the industry, and it is the clear signals from young people who want to enter the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3872	I'm going to be short since we're getting close to the end. The representative Schlagsvold Vedum says we have to think about the consequences. Customs walls create consequences. It's about market access. Rich, high tech Norway exports. We export oil, we export from the yard, we export equipment, and we export high technology. This is a huge amount of money we're exporting to. And everything is related to everything. When it comes to fish and aquaculture, we export 35 million meals every day – healthy, good Norwegian food. These are high-reliance foods, but agriculture also provides food with high confidence, as the Council of State did. Let's take eggs as an example. If we travel around Europe, we get, even at the most expensive and beautiful hotels, eggs that have been cooked for so long that they are bright green inside. It's because a fear of salmonella in the eggs. Then I ask myself: why is Norwegian agriculture no longer active in selling its pure, healthy, good product to Europe? Because it's a buy-in audience and people and customers who just want to be safe and willing to pay for safe food. That's the way we should treat Norwegian agricultural products. Instead, today we experience far too much that the industry is being talked down. An industry where we see the youth bet, is fast getting talked up. I hope we can keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3881	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3895	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3902	Negotiations on the reindeer management agreement 2016/2017 were initiated on 7 January 2016. The parties reached agreement on a new agreement at the negotiating meeting on 16 February 2016. The agreement is valid for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30. ==References== The framework for the reindeer management agreement is 114,5 million. NOK, which is an increase of 1.5 million. kr compared to the current agreement after the adopted budget for 2016. There is an overall committee which is pleased that the parties to the agreement have reached an agreement. The Committee notes that the last three agreements continue and support this. A continued priority towards ecologically sustainable reindeer management within the framework of animal health legislation, as the Committee and the Storting have pointed out in previous communications, will be an absolute prerequisite for the achievement of the objectives of the reindeer management law on economic and cultural sustainability. The aim of the EEA is to establish a policy framework for reindeer management as a rational, market-oriented industry, sustainable in the long term. We therefore support the fact that the offer provided for the main reindeer operators. Increased slaughter withdrawals, increased value creation, increased investment in quality and thus increased performance are the best guarantees for the preservation and further development of reindeer management as a cultural carrier. The cleaning industry is a small and fragile industry, and the reputation for the industry is extremely important. The industry must be seen as an ecologically sustainable food industry and a healthy, safe and good food producer. Today we have good actors who build good brands – we have Rørosrein, we have Finnmark Rein. The fact that we now arrive at an industry that appears to be more and more sustainable and capable, and that provides safe food also makes the industry more secure financially. We record that the negotiations on the reindeer Convention with Sweden are drawing out. These are challenges that the industry will face in the future, and there are challenges that scare especially young practitioners. It is therefore more important to take care of Norwegian interests rather than to seek to speed up an agreement with Sweden in this area. We record that there are many unsolved land issues around the reindeer farm. That's why we're very pleased that the government has started and is now putting forward a work where you can also use the right to land change when it comes to land issues for reindeer management. We are also looking forward to a new big message about reindeer management, emphasising ecological sustainability as a priority and thus ensuring the industry ecological sustainability and clarifying the kind of responsibility reindeer management should have as a cultural carrier for the Sami people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3919	Purification is important in many facets, both as a cultural carrier, for Norwegian food production and not least as an industry representing an indigenous population. Many people get the impression that the indigenous people, together, are constantly reindeer-riding. That's not right, there's quite a few Sames who are doing it. However, it is an unusually important cultural carrier, and that is why I am very happy – also on behalf of the Workers' Party – to have managed to get the reindeer management agreement into port in the last few years. It may drown a little in the light of other types of agreements negotiated, but there is no doubt that this is an important tool for further development of the industry in line with the policy objectives of clean-up policy. For the Workers' Party, it has been important, in line with agriculture, that the industry can negotiate with the State on key issues and economic conditions for the industry. In this way, it is good to be able to reach an agreement despite very marginal increases in the agreement. Then I would like to stress that one should probably look for a long time for a food product in Norway that has greater potential than what we are facing here. I have expressed it from this pulpit before and will do it now, too, that I believe there are some particular challenges this industry has, and I actually experience in the name of justice that both the Council of State and the Government have a focus on. The first is that I believe that there are opportunities here to take out more meat, increase slaughter and increase turnover. I believe that there is hardly a product where one faces such a demand side, and it is to all intents and purposes a product that tastes good, but also, in my opinion, in these EAT conference times, can have many positive aspects. So there's every reason to stress that there's a great potential here, and I think the actors don't take it out. I was recently visiting Rørosrein at Røros, and I fully agree with the case rapporteur – who has also done a glittering job on this matter – that there is an enormous potential also in the processing aspect of this. I have to say that I think it's hanging again, and that all the steps taken through the reindeer management agreement that help us to cope with more and better, will not only strengthen the cultural background of this industry, but to the highest degree Norwegian food production. At Rørosrein, I have to say that high-quality products are produced that are only being torn away as soon as they are placed in the counters – and they are paying quite well, to put it nicely. But it's good products. All kinds of instruments, through the agreement, but also elsewhere, that can help us to get the level of processing up, I think will be of the good. It has enormous market potential that can be exploited to a much greater extent than today. The last thing I want to mention, and which is no less important, is that if we're going to be able to exploit and increase the production potential of reindeer farms, we still have to keep a very intense focus on adapting the size of the reindeer herd to available grazing land. It may hurt someone, but I think it's absolutely crucial. We can't rest. According to the resource accounting for the reindeer industry, the total reindeer has probably fallen from 232 900 to 211,000 animals, I believe. It is good that after many years of struggling with problems with the reindeer numbers in parts of Finnmark, we now have animal numbers that are better in line with the grazing basis. But the changes that were made by the Storting in the Law of Purgatory, where, among other things, the statesmen. was given access to enter and regulate parts of a page, is quite correct, and a good signal from Stortinget, in my opinion, that you keep the pressure up. There is no need to rest on the laurels in terms of results for the reindeer population. If it rakes there again, the foundation not only disappears for the industry, but also a lot of the cultural aspect that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3932	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the parties to the agreement have reached an agreement in the negotiations on the reindeer management agreement 2016/2017. It's a good sign that the parties who know best where the shoe prints find an agreement. The sewerage industry is important as an industry and in the Sami cultural heritage. The Sameting has pointed out that reindeer drift is a cornerstone of Sami culture. This also underlines the need for a healthy reindeer industry that acts both as an economic pathway and as a cultural carrier. It is therefore important that reindeer management should continue to be able to develop sustainably in the future. The aim of the size of the waste management policy was drawn up in St.meld. No 28 for 1991-1992, Sustainable reindeer management. In its setting, the Committee on Sustainable Purification made concrete the objectives of ecological, economic and cultural sustainable clean-up: ‘These three objectives are interrelated; ecological sustainability provides a basis for economic sustainability and together provides ecological and economic sustainability with the opportunity to develop cultural sustainability.’ The Christian People's Party supports this. Then we are also waiting for the message that has been notified in this area. The Christian People's Party wants a continued strong reindeer industry in Norway and is pleased that this year the parties have reached agreement on this year's reindeer management agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3946	I want to thank the case spokesman for the job and can mainly join the assessments that have been made. It is true that a market-oriented industry is desirable, but it is important to remember that the industry is also the source of Sami culture, and that the reindeer industry is a family business. I think it's important to stress that the challenges are different from Finnmark to the southern Sami regions, and that there are different challenges facing you. I look forward to the big message that we're going to get about bear power. I have a strong desire that it will make the possibilities visible. I would also like to point out that the description in this proposition relates to the industry's own efforts to bring down the reindeer figure may seem somewhat more positive than what it did in the proposition that allowed the basis for the amendment of the reindeer law § 60, and that the industry has shown a real willingness to tackle the challenge too high a reindeer. So it's good that one has come to an agreement, and it's a group of center parties that supports the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3957	As others have said, I am also pleased that the State and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund have agreed on a new reindeer management agreement for 2016/2017. I am also pleased that there is an overall committee that is behind the position that we are now debating. There would also be no good reason, all the time you continue the line from the last three years of agreements – a line that has been widely agreed on. As far as the Committee's comments are concerned, I would like to stress that we must continue to prioritise the achievement of the objectives of ecologically sustainable reindeer management, and we must have a steel focus on animal health and animal welfare. It must be the very support of a rational, market-oriented industry with sustainability in a long-term perspective, as the aim of the Great Britain for reindeer management policy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3966	I am happy that the Storting joins the redundancy agreement. I think we see a lot of positive moves in the reindeer, but we have a good deal left before we solve all the challenges. I want to praise the work that parts of the industry have done to bring down the reindeer. It is entirely decisive for a resilient reindeer over time that the number of animals is consistent with the grazing basis. A lot of actors have done the job in the last few years, and it's a pleasure to reindeer. At the same time, the challenges are not gone, and we're still left with pages where we have too high a integer. So the work must continue. Therefore, I am also pleased that the Stortinget has previously joined the proposal on changes to the Act on Repurchase Operation § 60. For me, it is particularly gratifying that in this reindeer management agreement we are able to continue what is the basis for us to develop the reindeer further, namely that we are encouraging slaughter. It gives meat in the market, increases access increases demand, and it provides the basis that more people produce more meat on a lower animal number, because the grazing pressure goes down, and because we don't send so many animals in winter pastures that it goes beyond the condition of the animals. It also makes animal welfare easier for us to make these grips. It is absolutely crucial that the reindeer management agreement takes care of these points of view, so that we can achieve a positive development in reindeer management. What I mean is this agreement does. And as many people have mentioned, I will come back later to Stortinget with a new message about the reindeer. I'm busy that we're going to be able to lay the foundation for still strengthened reindeer operations, but based on ecological balance. The answer to the extent to which we have a resilient reindeer industry over time is about the extent to which we have an animal number that is consistent with the grazing basis. It sets out this agreement, and the coming agricultural message will also serve as a basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3979	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3982	The sewerage industry has long been a challenging industry with a high level of conflict, not only with other agricultural and grazing industries but also with the reindeer sector itself. The sides and grazing areas have operated for a long time with too high a reindeer compared to that which is proper for the grazing grounds. Since the 1990s, the objectives of sewage policy in Norway have been an ecological, economic and culturally sustainable industry. Unfortunately, for a long time, priority has been given to cultural sustainability, which has been disastrous in some of the reindeer pastures, and especially in West Finland. In 2012, it was reported that in Finnmark there were about 42,000 tamrein more than what was prescribed as sustainable. With a clean figure out of control and a lack of grazing basis, animal health and welfare have been lost in domestic operations over a long, long period of time. Several governments, before the Right Party government, have also seen this challenge, but they have not been able to demonstrate their action and promote action to solve the problem — not until now. The Progress Party and the Government have focused on changing the facility of the support schemes from receiving support to have animals to receive more support for dispatching animals to slaughter. This has produced concrete, positive results. In 2015, 14 000 more pure were slaughtered than in 2014 and the slaughter weight per animal increases. The figures also show a decrease in the number of persons lost clean due to predators, which results in reduced replacements. The progress party and the government are proposing to present a big message on sustainability in reindeer operation in the spring of 2017. In addition, changes are made to the reindeer management law where the main focus will be on priority ecological sustainability. The Progress Party is engaged in long-term and predictable framework conditions for those whose main activity is domestic, so that the reindeer industry can actually become a sustainable industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3993	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e3999	Before the Stortinget goes to voting, the representative Rasmus Hansson will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4002	On behalf of the Green Party and myself, I would like to make a proposal on measures to meet the objective of at least 15 pst. organic consumption and agricultural land by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4007	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4016	In the course of the debate, two motions have been put forward by Mr Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the notification of the introduction of an annual Norwegian climate percentage to climate action abroad as a contribution to the Paris Agreement as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is required to notify the Norwegian oil and gas operations as an additional obligation to the Paris Agreement beyond a 20-year period.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4065	It shall be heard about the Committee's position on IV. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4076	The Committee shall then vote on the position of I, II, III and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4097	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4126	During the debate, three proposals were put forward, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose that approved private secondary schools be included in a county school plan to ensure predictability, as well as proposals for a legislative amendment to reduce the number of approved private pupils in a county municipality, where the situation is such that the quality of the overall public school offer is threatened. Where there is a need for a reduction in the number of school places as a result of student development, there shall be a balanced reduction in the total number of student places.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4142	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the law to be reviewed by the government for private schools and colleges to ensure that the intention that all state aid should benefit students and students is better cared for than at present. Such review shall aim at reducing the need for controls, imposing more stringent penalties for breaches of the rules and preventing the resale of State-aided schools and colleges from obtaining private profits from school operations.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the law requiring private schools and private colleges to be organised as self-owned foundations, in accordance with the model of the Danish ‘Law on Health and Private Primary Schools’ or as cooperatives.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4180	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 2, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a scheme to ensure pupils from 1 to 10. Steps at least one hour of physical activity each day, within the limits of today’s hours.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4205	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the gradual introduction of more physical activity, with the objective of one hour of daily physical activity for all pupils, in all parts of the training.’; The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that there were 51 votes in favour and 50 votes against the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.34.50]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4221	Something's wrong here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4226	That's against the result that we expected to get. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4252	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘III is amended to allow Stortinget to agree that Tromsø Veg AS is allowed to require local funding on the market of fuel in Tromsø for an additional three years in order to co-finance Tromsøpacket 3, Step 1. The conditions are set out in this proposition.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be replaced by the recommendation of the Committee to III.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4330	The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The roll-call boards showed that 90 votes were cast for the vote on III and 5 votes for the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.37.14]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4339	I think it was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4344	And what would the representative have voted?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4347	That's what we're wondering.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4352	Let's do the voting one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4363	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on I, II and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4378	In the course of the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Pollestad on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The share of tolls in the project E18 Rugged-Dørdal shall correspond to the level foreseen in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4407	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it. The roll-call boards showed that the Committee's position was unanimous. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.39.43]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4416	I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4421	The result is that 95 voted in favour of the Committee's position and 1 voted against, and the Committee's position was approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4444	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No I, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, by Hege Jensen on behalf of the Right and Advance Party, proposal No. 3, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Advance Party, during the debate is addressed to County Road 84 at Snaud and Berghögda. There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government for the toll stations on Fv. 84 at Snaud and Berghögda not being built.’ The voting boards showed that there were 9 votes in favour and 92 votes against the proposal of the Central Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.41.20]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4470	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4475	The result is that 8 voted in favour and 93 voted against the proposal, which means that the proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4478	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the county council, which is the guarantor of the loan, in order to assess the need for side-by-side bombs. 84 at Snarud and Berghögda.’ The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4509	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on I and II and proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Stortinget to submit a new proposal for the construction of Colomen-Moelv in Hedmark with the standard wooden field.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4536	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4552	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Pollestad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 4-6, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 7 by Mr Per Olaf Lundtigen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 8, by Rasmus First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 133 S Agriculturalally settled 2016 m.m. sent back to the government.» [[2015-2016]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4583	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, by Per Olaf Lundteg. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size suggests that ‘increased food production in Norwegian resources’ means that plant production in Norway needs to increase and that cereal imports need to be reduced.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4599	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch new negotiations with agricultural organisations and to present a new offer in accordance with the following principles: Food production is a societal task. Increased knowledge of climate change and impacts on the future food situation globally and nationally requires the formulation of new agricultural policies based on the principle of food sovereignty, the conservation and use of available food soils and food production based on own resources. Norwegian agriculture is land use in Norway. This means that the soil has to be cultivated where it is located, through the operation of small and large uses, and that it is targeted to use more land. Agriculture policy must, in total, help to make it profitable for farmers to increase production on Norwegian resources. The feed price has to be increased, this must include a more equitable subsidy scheme, not a low feed price and an increased subsidy on volume. The revenue gap of the first annual work shall be narrowed for all productions. Conversion to more organic production, so that the target of 15 pst. Organic consumption and agricultural land can be reached by 2020.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Storting to put forward a stronger operationalisation of the path towards the long-term objectives of agricultural policy through a new structure for more concrete, demarcated and verifiable targets.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4644	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of an operating disability grant in the agricultural holding in 2018.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The objective of income for agriculture is to reduce, and eliminate over time, the income differences between agriculture and other social groups measured in dollars per year.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a government budget for 2017 to establish an agricultural investment package specifically aimed at investment in small and medium-sized enterprises’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4672	There is a vote on proposal No. 8. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 133 S is sent back to the government, and the government asks the government to open new negotiations with the agricultural organisations and to present a new settlement in line with the following principles: The government is asking the government to ensure a development in line with the resource base by starting a gradual reintroduction of the upper limits of the livestock subsidy, the area grant and the regional contribution to fruit, berries and vegetables. [[(2015-2016) (Agricultural production 2016, etc.)]] The flattening of decreasing subsidy rates at increasing operational levels is reversed and the milk production quota ceiling is lowered. The overall settlement framework is increased to $850 million. Incentives are given to a use structure in accordance with local resource base by setting reasonable access to local feed resources as a requirement to receive support for large initial investments over the agricultural holding. The size asks the government to step up the outback grant for all animal species so that it provides the same amount of funding per year. unit of feed as a feed production on full-grown land. The grant shall be granted per year. the month of grazing and a structural profile shall be established which gives the highest rate for the first animals and subsequently gradually decreasing. The target price for Norwegian cereals is increased by at least 25 øre without a price reduction. The target prices of potatoes, vegetables and fruit are increased. In heading 74.14, the rate is increased for 1 to 16 dairy cows and the rate for 1 to 100 sheep. The outreach grazing premium for cattle, cattle and horses, sheep, lamb and goat is increased by the strongest increase in the outreach grazing premium for cattle. Area supplements for roughage are increased. Subsidies for organic farming over heading No 74.20 are greatly increased. Area supplements for vegetables, fruit and berries are increased. Area supplements for roughage are increased. The total amount of the subsidy to fur animals of heading 77.14 shall be removed.’» The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e4884	The President assumes that the Socialist Left and the Greens want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-14.ana.ud2268e5030	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
