ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e72	The President of the Tunisian Assembly of the Representatives of the People, HE Mr. Mohamed Ennaceur, is on an official visit to Norway. He is present here today, and it is a great pleasure to ask him and his delegation welcome to Stortinget. This visit will strictly the developing relations between our parliaments. I hope the guests will have an interesting and pleasant stay here with us, and that this visit will contribute to an even closer relationship between our parliaments. [[Applause from the Chamber]] The called alternates of the Telemark counties, Kristian Norheim and Hanne Thürmer, are now taking their seats. An application for sick leave is submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative Ulf Leirstein from 3 May onwards and until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Eastfold County, Håvard Jensen, is prevented from meeting under the leave of the representative Ulf Leirstein due to foreign residence. The vara representative, Eva Kristin Andersen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. Eva Kristin Andersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e105	The President will propose the election of two Chairman-in-Office of the European Parliament today, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Lise Christoffersen and Hans Andreas Limi. Other proposals are not available, and Lise Christoffersen and Hans Andreas Limi are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e126	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e138	Thank you to the Committee for its work on this matter. We have a long and good experience in Norway with out-of-court complaint handling. The consumer offer is mainly based on a model consisting of the Consumer Dispute Committee and professional complaints subjects. In addition, the Consumer Council mediates on matters falling within the remit of the Consumer Dispute Committee, before any action is brought before the Consumer Dispute Committee. However, the offer is not entirely comprehensive for all goods and services where a contract is concluded between the consumer and the trader, and it is both because not all industries have complaints topics that are completely comprehensive to the industry and because consumers increasingly act across borders. The professional complainants do not always keep up with the development of products in the industry, for example. in the case of complex investment products in the financial sector. That is why the ongoing work on reviewing the instruments of consumer policy is important, which I shall come back to a little. In the case of cross-border trade, it takes place both over the Internet and in connection with travel or residence abroad. The EU is working to improve consumer protection, both nationally and in cross-border trade, and therefore adopted in 2013 two legal acts aimed at establishing an offer of quality out-of-court complaint handling for most consumer contracts. In addition, a web-based complaint portal shall be established to make it easy for consumers to complain in cases of cross-border online trade – an ever-increasing trade. Today's proposal, which we are discussing here, includes a model in which the requirements for denominators are largely harmonised, on the one hand by an approval system for the contractual terms and, on the other hand, by amending the laws and regulations governing the other denominators. In other words, we are now getting closer to common overall legislation for consumer complaints bodies. Furthermore, it is our opinion that the Consumer Council's long experience in mediation, and the fact that good mediation results can be referred to, makes it most appropriate to add this task to the Consumer Council today. It is good that key actors affected by the proposal are broadly positive to what is now being proposed. However, it is worth recalling that some actors are critical of the role of the Consumer Council in driving consumer interests, and that that role may be difficult to reconcile with neutrality in dealing with the parties. We see that the trust of the parties in the mediation body is essential for the proper application and functioning of the offer, and we refer again to the ongoing work on assessing the role, tasks and organisation of the consumer policy instrument. It is also appropriate to add the mediation task to the Consumer Council at this time, but we look forward to a more detailed assessment in this area. Consumer policy is an area of fragile development, and today we are taking an important step towards strengthening consumer rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e157	We have a good complaint offer in Norway, and from 1 July last year the offer was strengthened by the fact that the Consumer Council can negotiate in cases where there is no other offer outside the courts. This means that consumers already have a successful offer. Those who want to complain about a failure of hairdressing, a well-being service that did not respond to expectations, or a taxi ride that was too expensive, now have the opportunity to do so. The proposal currently under consideration will lead to further strengthening of consumer protection. This is done by ensuring the quality of the offer through the requirements of the complaints bodies, so that consumers can feel confident that they will have a fair and fair handling of their cases. The problem is solved not only for the individual who is entitled, but also because complaints give important feedback to the trader about what is not good enough. The offer will eventually also have a stronger European dimension when the formalities attached to the EEA Agreement are in order. The Norwegian consumer will then also have access to the European Complaint Portal and to complaints bodies in other European countries. The proposal for a law on consumer complaint bodies establishes a public authorisation system for names and mediation bodies. This means that the appeal bodies which so request may apply for approval. It is held, among other things: requirements for the Boards of Appeal for a maximum of 90 days of proceedings. And the Consumer Council mediation offers an offer where there are no other complaints bodies that meet the requirements. A prerequisite for consumers to be able to complain is that they know about the possibility. Therefore, the traders are now obliged to inform about the complaint offer. The Act implements the EU Alternative Dispute Resolution Directive in consumer matters and the EU Regulation on online dispute resolution in consumer matters, and EU legislation came because consumers act more cross-border now than before. The ability to address problems in a good way is important in order to strengthen confidence in the internal market. We know that Norwegian consumers are active in the European internal market, among others. with online commerce, holidays and study stays. Therefore, it is very relevant to us what is now happening to the Norwegian consumer. EU legislation requires all countries to have a quality assurance, successful offer, and the European Commission also opened a web-based complaint portal for e-commerce complaints on 15 February this year. A consumer such as: is dissatisfied with a hotel stay in Croatia, can now file the complaint on the portal and get the result from a Croatian complaint body back in its own language. EU legislation is not yet incorporated into the EEA Agreement. There have been some challenges, but we hope that we will get on target soon, so that Norway can become a full part of pan-European cooperation early in 2017. The Norwegian consumer will then be able to use the complaint portal and the complaint bodies of European countries. It strengthens consumer protection and also contributes to increased cross-border trade and competition. I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the proposals under consideration today. The legislative proposal will provide the consumer with a reasonable, low-threshold complaint offer for almost all types of goods and services. This would also benefit traders by the fact that the cases are now being dealt with by a neutral third party. It is proposed that the majority of the legislative changes should enter into force on 1 July of this year, but in the period until Norway becomes part of the pan-European system, the consumer will assist Europe with complaints related to other European countries. Finally, I would like to include a little message of pleasure. As I was in the beginning, we have already put this system in place, from 1 July last year. The Consumer Council reports that from 1 July 2015 to 18 March 2016 it has addressed 336 complaints in new areas. We also see that the number of complaints received in new areas is increasing, and the solution rate for the Consumer Council in all cases for the entire period is 63 pst. What we have recorded is an increase in complaints, especially private schools, rental of a car and disagreements related to gift cards. Thus, with the system now in force, which we have already started, consumers in Norway have received a better offer than they had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e176	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e192	There are thousands of fires throughout the country. It's people who give of their time, their forces and their resources – for things they burn for, and for a good community. Voluntaryness is one of the finest things in our society. There are today about 100,000 voluntary teams and organisations across the country. These are based on a great competence, on which we can build in the great social virtue that Norway is now facing. 20 000 have entered the Red Cross on a country-wide basis since September. It shows that there are many who want to contribute to our success as a society. The volunteers are a fantastic resource as important bridge builders in the integration work. They provide valuable knowledge and guidance for newly arrived refugees. At the same time, they're ambassadors in their own circles and can talk about the people behind the numbers. I've seen a lot of examples of this lately. Earlier in our visit I visited Stella Women's Centre, which is part of the women's bet in the Oslo Red Cross. The Oslo Red Cross has 7 000 volunteers in its system, who represent individuals. In close proximity, they focus on work and skills needs. They believe that the monitoring of resources and competences should be initiated at the moment of the receipt of the asylum application. Integration is about the 24-hour people, and not just in the opening hours of public offices. Therefore, volunteering is essential. In Hegra they received a new reception. Shortly after it became known, the building was subjected to military action. People said, "What can we do to turn this into something positive for the village?" The sports team, which is right next door, decided to offer refugees good reception and to offer activities. Those who did military work achieved the opposite of what they wanted. Yesterday I visited Sagen International and Multicultural Freedom Centre, Saiff, which shows us how to build good communities. Voluntary efforts provide results for individuals, school results and crime prevention. And just before this debate started, I received an e-mail from the Extra Foundation, which is the volunteer's own foundation, which supports several integration projects for newly arrived refugees, reporting that they want to contribute. Other good activities I would like to take the opportunity to mention are the Kafe World in my home municipality of Levanger, which operates at good times, and which is a great meeting place, bowling evenings in Moscow, extra grandparents in India, highlands championship on kickbacks, swimming training directed by Norsk Folkehelp in Malm. In sum, this shows that there are many good forces in our society that want to set up. But unfortunately, both people and organisations experience some challenges when they want to set up. Free resources to prioritise their own activities for volunteering are important. However, many of the funds are currently project-based and require application rounds. Applications for funds take a lot of time. UDI has e.g. made available to non-governmental organisations, but requirements for documentation and in the event of legislation make it difficult for the job to volunteer. We also hear about time-consuming processes with police certificates, and that there is a lack of access to premises and facilities. Some municipalities are good at this, others are not. Asker, Skedsmo and Klebu are municipalities that have cooperated with the volunteering of the system – something that other municipalities can learn from. Then, unfortunately, we have a government that doesn't do its job. Firstly, we have a government that seemed totally unprepared on the high arrivals, despite the fact that the warning lights had flashed for a long time. Secondly, representatives of the government have spent more time expressing fear and problematizing as well as presenting negative characteristics of other parties rather than doing the job for which a government is actually responsible. Thirdly, the government has cut off important measures that could have promoted the role of volunteer in integration. The government has cut off Norwegian training on receipt. We are very critical of that. We will continue 250 hours of Norwegian training for asylum seekers in reception and introduce an obligation to participate in Norwegian training. Integration must start from day one. However, when the government cuts, language measures become even more important through voluntary action in the future. Then you have to strengthen the capacity of volunteering. In the past, organisations in all municipalities in the country were able to apply for funding from the support scheme for local integration measures. In the 2015 state budget, this item was cut by 5 million. kr, and only the country's 20 largest settlement municipalities can now apply for IMFI funds for voluntary activity. These municipalities account for only 25 pst. of the total residence in 2015. We proposed 50 million. kr more to the voluntary nature of our alternative budget. Furthermore, we proposed 259.2 million. kr more in integration grants. It could release more funds for voluntary work in municipalities. The working party will require that the receptions cooperate with non-governmental organisations and that resources be allocated to them in the receptions. The aim must be to assist asylum seekers in Norwegian training and social inclusion, while encouraging them to participate in voluntary work. We will strengthen the activity offer in receptions and increase the grant to non-governmental organisations working on the integration of refugees with a residence permit. The resources must also help to disseminate Vox’s training of volunteer language staff from Oslo and across the country. In the daily newspaper of 8 February, the Council of State of Hofstad, Greece, assured us that she would "save the refugees". Since then we have neither heard nor seen anything. I would therefore like to express some expectations and ask some questions back to the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to make everyday life easier for volunteering, so that they actually don't do, and so that they can do the job they want to do? What will the Council of State do to improve the economic environment of the voluntary sector in the future and to ensure that the increase comes as free income? What will the Council of State do to help several municipalities enter into binding agreements with voluntary activity? In the 2016 budget, the Labour Party proposed some 400 million. more to volunteer, increased basic grants to the children’s and youth organisations, more to VAT compensation, more to volunteer centres and resistance to transferring the centres to local councils, increase in the Free Fund and more to VAT compensation in the construction of sports facilities and a more predictable regulatory system. It would trigger significantly more resources in the voluntary sector than what we see today. Recently, the Labour Party volunteer committee presented its report. The selection points out that strengthening the volunteering locally will strengthen both volunteering and Norway’s ability to succeed in an inclusive society. For this reason, the question becomes to the Council of State: How will the government work to support and develop the good work done by the volunteer to strengthen integration in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e222	I would like to thank the representative Arild Grande for the opportunity to discuss one of the things I think is the most important thing that we are together about today, namely to ensure that people who come here to the country become an integral part of and a resource for the communities in which they live. I also fully agree with the representative of Grande that the diversity of voluntary teams and associations we have all over Norway is the key to what I would call ‘everyday integration’, which the Prime Minister also called it in his New Year's speech, and that there are voluntary teams that are the key to that. It's the inclusion of new people, which happens outside the public offices and outside the working hours, which is absolutely vital for us people to experience that we're part of a community. Therefore, everyday integration and volunteering have also been given a separate chapter in the government’s communication of integration on 11 May, and many of the issues raised by the interpellant today are something that the government will come back to in the presentation of the Communication of Integration. But that volunteering is a big part of that message, that's quite clear, and that's also what we've been working on lately. The whole government is concerned with everyday integration, and therefore many of the state councils are also out visiting the volunteering around the country, not least in search of good everyday integration examples. In order for us to succeed, there is exactly a joint effort by the government to do so. Therefore, I would like to draw up a few examples of some of the visits we have made. I can't put out the whole list here, but among other things. then visited the Prime Minister ‘Young People Older’ in the City of Stovner here in Oslo in January. When I myself was in Bergen in February, I visited the volunteering centre at the Møhlen Prize where I was briefed on the good integration work. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has engaged in close dialogue with the KS on everyday integration. The Minister of Integration visited yesterday's lecture aid project at Red Cross in Harstad, and tomorrow I'm going to Furuset myself for a visit that I've been looking forward to for a long time. I'm going to visit Sajandan, who became the "Fire of the Year", in the tour hall on Furuset, and see the amazing work that Sajandan does not only for sport, but also for integration. I could still have the list, because that list is very long, and when we're out visiting the volunteer, we see the many amazing initiatives that are. When we meet in the field of culture and volunteering, everyday integration is a topic almost exclusively at all meetings, at conferences, and it's very happy to see the awareness and commitment of the Norwegian people about how to contribute to everyday integration. Here the government is very concerned that we should learn from the good examples. One of the things that gives me the most as Minister of Culture is just meeting people who do voluntary work, be it in art, sport, culture or humanitarian activity. Seeing how people give of themselves to please others, and seeing what joy it also gives you, is a enrichment. It's just this community I mean is and becomes the key to good integration and to including immigrants in the Norwegian communities. Most people who have moved in the course of their lives know what it's like to be new in a new place – don't know the neighbors, don't know where the store is, don't know how to get in touch with civil society, and not feel at home. This is precisely where the voluntary sector has long taken responsibility for inclusion and integration. It was very good to see when I went on as Minister of Culture and had the first meeting with the sport, where the sport told about the fund they have set up for asylum seekers and refugees, how to travel around on asylum recipients, among others. in order to organise football matches, such that those sitting on asylum receptions should have something to fill their everyday lives with and how to bring football and leg skins in order to arrange an activity that gives meaning and joy and that allows you to experience content in your everyday life. The voluntary sector has long taken responsibility for this, and it impresses me. They have not sat waiting for the state or the municipality to come and tell them that now you have to do so, now you have to take the initiative to do so. That's exactly what's so amazing about Norwegian volunteering, that the initiative comes from grassroots, from the individuals, who see in their local environment that we can contribute here, here we can go in and help. That's what characterizes volunteering, that they're not to be governed by the state or the municipality, but it's exactly the interaction and contribution they're making that characterize the good work. Therefore, it is also important to take care of people's willingness to contribute in the way that works best. The government facilitates a greater use by municipalities of the competences and resources of non-governmental organisations in meeting newly arrived immigrants. Cooperation must be based on the already existing voluntary activities, such as: Norwegian training, refugee guide, mentoring schemes, leisure activities for children and adults, homework and information on Norwegian society. Collaborating with people who themselves have a migrant background is clearly a strength in this work. The volunteer centres are a meeting place and the volunteer assembly area, which we can bet on in this context. Yesterday I was in Helsinki at the Nordic Council of Ministers. There was just the possibility of volunteering to contribute to everyday integration one of the things we discussed most. There we had Norwegian representatives who briefed the other Nordic cultural ministers on how Norwegian volunteering also contributes, how cooperation with municipalities is. And what we raised from the Norwegian side as the main resource in this work was just how the immigrants who have come to Norway – who are integrated and who are part of the Norwegian community – can contribute. To a much greater extent, we have to lift them up, because they have experienced this for themselves. It's a force, and it's also easier for them to reach others. We had a very good discussion yesterday at the Ministerial Council, and when Norway is to hold the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2017, we will start from the Ministry of Culture work to raise it on the agenda and strengthen Nordic cooperation with emphasis on sharing and sharing knowledge, ideas and experience between the Nordic countries, on how we can better facilitate both cultural life and volunteering and strengthen our further work. Community based on religion or cultural background can also be an important anchor in a new life, and many immigrants have a voluntary involvement in such contexts. As Minister of Faith and Life, I am concerned that the religious and life views can also have an important role to play in giving people an experience of belonging – not only in the religious communities, but also in society in general. For this reason, the government will also provide financial support to the key actors in the faith and life-view dialogue, such as the Cooperation Council for Creeding and Living Societies. Norway’s Christian Council and the Islamic Council Norway, at the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Knowledge, has begun to work to explore the need for any Norwegian education for religious leaders, which we know is important. The government is concerned that the commitment grows best from below and up, and therefore, through the Declaration of Freedom, we have recognised the social task of volunteering, that they themselves should be allowed to develop the work they think is most useful. I look forward to a further discussion in the UK about the important role civil society and the voluntary sector can play in the integration work, not least through the consideration of the Communication of Integration, where the government will present its proposals on how best to meet the challenges in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e250	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I had probably hoped that there was more content than rhetoric in the answer. I understand that some of the measures to be notified have to wait for the integration message expected on 11 May, but at least on the Council's own responsibility, I might have expected a slightly more offensive attitude. The only thing I heard that might have been a news story was that in 2017, the Council of State will start a work to investigate and assess. It cannot be said exactly to be forward-looking at all the time the arrivals and challenges of integration are happening here and now. So we cannot spend much time in this debate discussing new measures by the government. Then we'd better focus on what the government has actually done so far. It is quite obvious to everyone that the situation that arose last year, with an ever-increasing rate of asylum arrivals, was totally unprepared by the government. From the opposition, we have proposed a wide range of measures to strengthen the possibilities of volunteering, just to give them the opportunities that the Council of State points to in and of itself. We have proposed an increased framework in terms of both grant schemes for VAT compensation, activity, procurement and construction, and also to increase the free revenues of organisations. When the government parties vote against such proposals, they agree to make it difficult for the job they claim to be concerned with. It is cut off in the budgets, which would actually contribute to integration, and there is no interest in listening to opposition proposals. It is interesting and nice to hear that the government has had some visits, but the impression we got from the headline in Dagbladet on 8 February was that a large-scale travel activity should be carried out, which may provide a basis for the integration message. In the frame-up of the point-by-point visits, I did not hear a single example of the fact that the Council of State has done so together with Listhaug, as it was actually announced in the notice. It is regrettable that the opportunity it would give for valuable information to be provided in the integration message was not used. What we also hear when we ask the volunteer about the extent to which they are involved in this message work is that they have so far heard nothing of the world's things. I repeat my question to the Council of State: what will she do to make everyday life easier, to contribute to more resources and to allow more municipalities to cooperate with volunteering?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e263	I can assure the representative of Grande that in the future, both here in Stortinget and abroad, we will be discussing how we should make integration the best possible. We're going to have plenty of time to lift and look at the projects and examples that work best. That's why, along with several other government councils, I have given priority to working on the integration message. I look forward to continuing my visits around Norway – along with other state councils and alone – to looking at the actions that are really important, that work and that volunteering itself wants to travel. For the government, integration work has a very high priority. For the government, integration work is more important than the number of media postings. I see that the Workers' Party is out in the press today and criticises that the integration work is about getting the number of media uploads. Then I'll be in a bit of a hurry, because I think this is a common virtue that we're going to share. The actual discussion of the content and measures may be more important than the number of media postings. I hope the Labour Party agrees. It's not like every time you're visiting, or meeting non-governmental organizations, that the press is on the door and covers the event. If this is desirable on the part of the Workers' Party, we shall be presented with the full list of the meetings and activities we have in connection with integration. It is more than welcome to the Workers' Party to have the opportunity to see. The government is coming to the Stortinget with the integration message in May, and then we're going to discuss and answer many of the questions that come here, and of course I can't say anything about now. I am pleased that we are strengthened by the general scheme for the voluntary sector, where the VAT compensation now amounts to 1.3 billion. kr, free of charge to be used by organisations. Sport is a unique bridge builder between people. In the distribution of gambling funds in the state council last Friday, we therefore increased the provision for sports facilities in the municipalities by another 1.2 billion. kr. We made sure that Oslo, along with 18 other municipalities involved in a press area operation, will receive 15 pst. more in musical instruments. The government has been targeted in its allocation to promote better integration. That is why we have also increased the grant for activities under the auspices of non-governmental organisations. I hope there are answers to some of the questions asked by the representative of Grande. We come back with more answers in the integration message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e276	The volunteers have become our new cheek eggs for integration. They help to ensure that tens of thousands have found an added meaning to life in Norway — in waiting hours, with a permanent stay, volunteer centres mean something and make a difference for people in everyday life. We are probably in agreement with the biggest – and politically – of this. The size of the population values and pays tribute to the activity that is taking place throughout the country through the volunteer centres. More than otherwise, the offer also takes place across age divisions and nationalities. In different ways, a number of tasks outside the core tasks of the municipality are solved, based on the competence of the volunteers and the provision and needs of individuals. The growth of volunteer centres is based on a split layer between country and different local involvement. Some are owned by organisations, some are municipal, but in common with them they have received operating grants from the state until now. Not many weeks ago, I visited the annual conference of volunteers in Hordaland. Here the clear feedback was a strong concern for the government's eagerness to shift responsibility for the grant to the municipalities, from the state. In the Labour Party, we understand the concern. We don't think it's time to change funding, and it won't increase that offer and the activity that's going on in the centres. Most of all, it seems that the government's eagerness to cross another so-called simplification measure has won over reason, against the will of volunteering. If volunteering is to flourish and take responsibility in a demanding refugee situation in our country, it is important to listen to the feedback of volunteers. One doesn't have to travel far before the first comes – and it's unison. In this case, voluntary centres may focus on their main task: to organise and carry out valuable voluntary work, rather than to protest against what the government is doing now. The key to good voluntary integration work, for the Workers' Party, is to provide volunteers with good employment and a predictable grant scheme. The Labour Party is therefore concerned that the State has a close approach to the work carried out by the Centres, so that the grant remains via the State and not through the municipal framework, as the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e293	Let me first thank the interpellant for an interesting topic that we have up to discussion. In the political debate and in the media, the challenges of increasing immigration are often given high attention – the challenges of housing, the challenges of language training and the challenges of finding work for those who are going to start their lives in Norwegian society. There are challenges, but it is also important to focus on both the opportunities and the good examples that already exist in integration work. Life is lived locally. These include those who come to Norway and are to find footholds in a community, and therefore much of the integration work has to be done locally. Much of what happens locally is done through the voluntary sector. People want to contribute. We see that there is a great commitment in the population to be able to contribute and make a difference for those who come to Norway. Voluntary organisations obviously have an important function in being an arena to include and integrate people who come to us. There are many examples of this — the interpellant had some, the Council of State also had a part, and I could also provide some examples. If we take sport as an example, every day thousands of trainers contribute to organizing activities to include and create space for as much as possible in their local sports environment. Many sports are probably working on the integration project without them seeing it as an integration project – but it may be important, too. Doctoral student Anne Tjønndal at Nord universitet points out that it is such an integration project, which they do not know is an integration project, which in reality is often the most successful. The same is true in other voluntary organisations, cultural organisations, children’s and youth organisations, volunteer centres and others. The examples we present are important, but the framework conditions of the voluntary sector are also important. An important part of the further integration work will be the framework conditions which a given to the voluntary sector in the work it does, in particular towards immigrants, but also in general. On the one hand, I have to say that I think it might be a bit easy for the Council of State to try to dismiss the issues raised by the Labour Party here, with the Workers' Party hanging up in the number of posts in the newspapers. There's probably a fact that I think many people know, that this government gives a clear impression of standing stronger on the foot about immigration regulation than on the foot about integration. And there's a picture of one being more important than the other. There is simply a lack of ‘driving’ in the integration work to be carried out by the government. On the other hand, I have to say that the seas of voluntary sector do a lot and have the potential to do even more in terms of inclusion and integration, public caution must be exercised in imposing a role on these voluntary organisations or trying to control their activity. It is important to respect the autonomy of the voluntary sector and that it is primarily for its members. The activity must be the starting point for the integration work. The researchers who have written the book Communities and diversity point out in this context that it is important that authorities do not consider voluntary work in the neighbourhoods as an extension of the public sector and that voluntary organisations cannot become the tools of politicians, because that will confuse voluntary activities. There might also be a reminder of some other parts here in the hall. The voluntary sector has challenges in its work, and this should be taken seriously and addressed on a general basis – how the voluntary sector can facilitate participation irrespective of its function, age, ethnicity and different economic conditions, and what is possible to achieve in the individual club and association in order to avoid being socially excluded in some way. Sense if perhaps the most successful integration takes place as a natural part of the organisations’ activities, it is also important that public authorities provide framework conditions and assist with the means to lubricate the machinery that the voluntary sector is, so that it is easy to integrate without conflict or creating difficult dilemmas in terms of core activity and follow-up of the rest of the membership. We could discuss this in the knowledge and broadest possible terms. The central party believes that there are many examples that this government can be more responsive to the voluntary sector than it has been. We have now again obtained figures in respect of applications for installations, and they show that the funds for the value added tax compensation are still not sufficient for the badly needed resources for the construction sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e316	When the Council of State took over as Minister of Culture last year, she asked for time to come back with her plans for Norwegian cultural policy, but that was one thing the Council of State said clearly and clearly from the outset: culture and volunteering were to play a leading role in our meeting with the refugees. The council also said in its statement here today that she is sitting with the key to good everyday integration. It's like music in the ears of the Workers' Party. The entrance to Norwegian society is going through culture, sport and volunteering, as the Council of State said in its intervention. So we're going to join this insight. But there is also my enthusiasm, because in the response of the Council of State to the interpellant it is nothing new and nothing concrete. In fact, integration does not have time to wait for the Council of State and the Government to find out how to use this key. People locally, volunteering, culture and sports are integrating them. They're just asking the government to get on the track. It doesn't keep traveling around and looking at projects. Voluntary action, sport and culture must be given what they are asking for: the possibility of doing more, removing barriers to integration and improving the framework. The Government's response here today is disappointingly a little concrete and notifies anything new. Football courts, sewing machines and waffles do not buy themselves. We in the Workers' Party have the suggestions for what the government has to do. We have promoted them all, but unfortunately have been voted down. The first thing the government has to do is – as the interpellant also said – to really strengthen volunteering. Following up a large number of volunteers and refugees in a good way is a great promise, and that promise cannot be taken on its own. That was why the Labour Party in our budget proposed to strengthen the contribution to voluntary effort by 400 million. kr. The other government now has to do is follow up its promises to the sport of building and refurbishing sports facilities. Sports facilities and sports throughout the country are important for rapid integration by including children and young people in play and physical activity. There is a solid need for upgrading. That's why the Workers' Party proposed 200 million. kr. to this in our budget. Once again, we were voted down by the government parties. The third government and the minister now have to do is really bet on culture. The Workers' Party's proposal to spend almost 400 million. kr. more on cultural action across the country, was also voted down in this Chamber by the government parties, which thought the cultural debate was too much about money. For 400 million. kr. more we would get more activity, better accessibility, more participation and more life and touch in all parts of Norwegian cultural life. That's exactly what we need right now. Culture is not decoupling, it's connection. Culture creates commitment, connects people across cultures, languages and countries of origin. If the government were really concerned with the possibilities of volunteering, sport and culture to contribute to the integration work, it would also be natural that our proposals had received the support of the government parties. So it wasn't like that. For the time being, the Minister for Integration has not contributed anything to integration — on the contrary, to which the inter-pellant also pointed. I had hoped that the Minister of Culture's play on the day she took over was a warning about a change in course at least in the field of culture, on behalf of the blue-blue government. There is nothing in the answer here today that suggests – on the contrary. If it is true that she wants to use this key for integration, this must be reflected already in the revised government budget. Culture, volunteering and sport must be given a strong boost in the state budget for the autumn. It is time for the Minister of Culture to take the key she has in her hand and unlock it for a more inclusive community. It's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e335	Voluntary activities are important in Norwegian society. Voluntary work activates and engages people in Norwegian society and creates an arena for interaction. This can help promote tolerance among different groups of the population, with which many of us have good experience. Participation in voluntary life also contributes to getting contacts and networks, and it's not just buying waffles, which the Workers' Party was in, for 600 million. kr; there's so much, much more. Voluntary organisations are an important meeting place, where association and participation have intrinsic value in addition to the primary objectives of organisations. Organisations provide identity, belonging and not least self-confidence. Voluntary organisations are important arenas, which we all agree on, for integration and inclusion. The integration and inclusion work shall not, and cannot, be done by the authorities alone, but one also has one's own responsibility, and we have a common responsibility, all of us. Voluntary organisations are important and necessary contributors in meeting the objective of an inclusive society for all, with good opportunities for participation. In Norway, there is a large voluntary sector, and the proportion of the population involved in voluntary work is high on an international scale. Participation in voluntary organisations promotes social communities, provides learning and knowledge and contributes to the development of democratic competences. A small elite well-integrated high-educated immigrants carry out voluntary work at the level of the Nordics most. But monitoring voluntary involvement is important, for example, about the status of immigrant integration in Norway. Participation in Norwegian civil society, together with the labour market, is particularly important for social and political integration. There is a link between voluntary work in general and social capital, and between participation in migrant organisations and religious organisations and diversity in social networks. Although there is a connection, I don't know what comes first, and what comes last – whether having a diverse social network leads to participation, or whether participation leads to a more diverse network. There may also be other factors affecting both networks and participation. There is no clear answer to the extent to which voluntary work is involved by most immigrants in Norway. The non-governmental organisations themselves are responsible for their own activities and for being inclusive. I have the impression that many non-governmental organisations around the country are doing an incredibly good job, and how it would have been without them, I don't know. Volunteering and voluntary organisations play an important role in Norwegian society, throughout the country. The voluntary sector is very upswing in the population. More than half of the adult population participate in voluntary work over a year, and more than 113 000 annual work is carried out in non-governmental organisations — so yes, we depend on these. In other words, the voluntary sector and voluntary organisations make invaluable contributions to society and social development, not least to the quality of life of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e356	The question in the interpellation was: What will the government do to support and develop the work of the voluntary sector with integration? Often the interviews contribute to giving some answers to the Storting's questions, but today nothing has happened, and it is mildly surprising. When we talk about volunteering, there are, in particular, three main areas of volunteering that the big community can be involved and contribute to, so that they can solve the tasks they want. One is that volunteering needs to be made easier, to apply for funds, to carry on its activities and to give way to reception. The second is that more resources must be given, preferably an increase in the free income of organisations, and that access to them also needs to be made easier. The third is that several municipalities need to engage in commitment to volunteering, recognise the role that volunteering can play, and contribute to triggering the good forces. I also find reason to ask the question: what has the Council of State done to help to ensure that voluntary action is heard in the process of a major communication on integration? Have the organisations been included in the dialogue and asked for advice in the basic work? And when all the questions raised by the opposition in this debate were included in the communication, it would have been possible to clarify just to what extent the Council of State has involved the voluntary nature of the work. Finally, yesterday, during the visit to Saiff, Sagene International and Multicultural Freedom Centres, I met Rama Jama, who asked me to convey this greeting to the Council of State: If you succeed in integration, you must bet on volunteer centres! Many volunteers fear the future now that the government wants to transfer responsibility to the municipalities. The Minister of Culture has said that she expects volunteering to be at the service of society that we are now in the middle of, but what will the Council of State do to promote volunteering? We have not received any answers today, and that concerns me. The working party is ready to take responsibility. We've met with the volunteer, we're traveling around -- I think alone I've visited more than what the Council of State put in the post that the government had done. We are ready to do the job that the government unfortunately does not seem to be busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e371	It is reassuring to know that the Workers' Party is going out, has meetings and is visiting, and maybe we can also go out together? It's nice that the government along with the opposition shows that it's really important that we stand together and guarantee our volunteer the best conditions for the job they want to do in this field. It would have been very pleasant. Then I want to make a point, as the representative Arnstad raised, that volunteering should not be an instrument for any politicians. It's actually important that we bring with us. We're going to facilitate, we're going to raise the resource that it is, bring out the examples and measures that work, but our whole starting point must be respect for the autonomy of volunteering. And that's what I hope we're all taking with us. KS and Volunteering Norway are very key players in this work. They have established a platform for interaction and cooperation between volunteering and the municipal sector. They give us concrete advice on how voluntary teams and associations, in cooperation with municipalities, can contribute to a good meeting of new immigrants with Norway, and that is absolutely crucial for us. I also want to assure the interpellant that we will continue the good dialogue with the volunteers all the way, it is absolutely central, and we are concerned that we will not come and three any solutions or systems or measures down the head of volunteering. It's going to come from themselves, and we're going to get involved and organized. Therefore, the government, in cooperation with the KS and the Freewill of Norway, is to hold a large integration conference on the building of competences and the dissemination of good examples on 30 May, and everyone is invited to attend. I hope that we will have many new initiatives and proposals for action that we can work with further. Then I have responded to many of the challenges I have received from the interpellant on better framework conditions for volunteering. Not least, we now come back with a big message about integration that the government has been working on for a long time. There will also be answers to how we will deal with the further integration challenges. But then I want to say, it's too easy to make this just a debate about appropriations. There are far more complicated issues than that, which deserve a broader approach. We must – as the Declaration of Freedom also says – invite volunteering in planning, together with the municipalities, and then I have faith that we will find good solutions to the great challenge we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e387	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e401	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e408	As the President referred to, the starting point for this position is a Document 8 proposal from a number of representatives of the Storting, and the issue they address is the fact that Norway is a country with wonderfully rich natural resources. We have renewable energy in virtually unlimited quantities, and it provides opportunities for Norway as a country to develop food pathways in different areas — including on the issue of green data centres, a new area for power-intensive industry. I am very pleased that an overall committee and a broad majority are behind both comments and suggestions in the vote, and to the extent that there are further comments from individual parties, I expect them to explain their views on the matter. In its opinion, the Committee of the Regions, by means of three proposals for decisions, asks for follow-up in three areas in particular. On the one hand, the Stortinget is asked to submit a case on the establishment of several fibre cables abroad, in line with what the Document 8 proposes – that more fibre cables are established as soon as possible, among others. to the United Kingdom and Germany. This may help to strengthen the basis for the establishment of green data centres and other data-based business activities in Norway. The second proposal that has also been put together is the proposal that the government should develop a strategy to better facilitate green data centres in Norway. We are quick to point out that data centres should have particular opportunities in Norway, but having a thorough and systematic review of what is needed in order to actually experience the establishment of more green data centres in Norway is important, and that is the strategy that Stortinget is asking the government today to develop. It is also a majority who ask that public data storage needs be better coordinated. There is no doubt that there is a potential for better coordination and coordination of public data storage needs, and we are also asking the government to come back to the Stortinge. The proposers point to the possibility that the new industry can give us in terms of a large number of skilled jobs and can also lead to significant investments in Norway. It is easy to agree, and access to renewable energy is a competitive advantage for us. It is also true that Norway is a solid country with politically good stability and also a stable geology. There are factors that also point to the fact that the type of business for which data centres represent can be well organised in Norway. Perhaps the biggest challenge we face is enough to put in place a good fibre capacity and also to coordinate the market related to fibre capacity better than today. The Committee points to the need for an active state policy. In order to make Norway an attractive host nation, large data centres have been reduced. As pointed out in today’s setting, no data centres currently have sufficient outlets to reduce the electricity charge rate. That is why I am pleased that a large majority in Stortinget today want to decide that data centres with withdrawals below 5 MW should also be assessed for a reduced rate in the electricity charge. That proposal has a clear expectation that next year's government will come back at a reduced rate for everyone. Renewable energy, power in itself, is not enough. The fibre connection, as I have mentioned, must also be in place. The proposal has been promoted as a consequence of the concession given to two new power cables from Norway to Germany and England, the possibility of adding fibre cables and power cables together, and the potential for significant savings. In the recommendation, the Committee gives a clear signal to the government that the organisation of green data centres needs to be intensified and prioritised. It is urgent to get started, and the Council of State would like to give a clear signal as to when the Storting can expect to get a case back on how to establish new fibre cables for the United Kingdom and Germany. I would like to stress that it is necessary to ensure that data centres can be located as often as possible near the power sources. Here there might be a lot of shared opinions, but I think that this way you can avoid energy losses when transporting force, it'll be a value in itself. It will also reduce the need for investment in the mains, which may also be important in the years to come. In this area, the public is a significant player. Therefore, it is also important that we seek better coordination of the storage needs of different public enterprises. The proposal put forward by the majority today is a follow-up to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e436	While I keep this post, 500,000 Twitter messages will be published, and more than 1000 million e-mails will be sent and received. All data traffic is stored. If we allow data centres to be established here in Norway, it will mean more new jobs based on Norway’s advantage: mountains, with already developed halls, fjords, with cold water for cooling, and abundant with renewable energy. International giants such as Facebook and Google have established data storage centres in Sweden and Finland. This has led to billions of investments and thousands of jobs. According to the IT industry, the power industry and industry, Norway can also take part in this growth, if companies are given as good conditions as in our neighbouring countries, whether in the South, from which several of the proposers come, or in more – to say – arctic strokes, for example. in Mo. Mo Industripark is working on this. In a hall in Luleå, almost 30,000 m2, much of the traffic from 800 million Facebook users is going on. The Centre has provided Luleå 900 jobs until now. Several international companies assess establishment in the north. This is precisely the background to the proposal for a representative from the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left: a desire to facilitate the establishment of data centres in Norway. The proposers believe that there is a need to invest in a strengthened international fibre infrastructure towards the continent. This is a key factor, which needs to be put in place to achieve the objective of setting up large-scale data storage centres in Norway. Statnett is now working on establishing power cables in Germany and in England. These projects have been granted a concession, but without the inclusion of fibre cables. Fibre cables may be installed as separate projects or together with the establishment of other infrastructure, such as power cables. There is reason to believe that synergies can be achieved on the cost side by combining the performance of, for example: power and fibre cables, but trade unions disagree as to whether combined power and fibre cables are desired by the very largest data centre actors. There may be something to save by placing the cables at the same time, with the same ship and in the same ditch, rather than laying them separately. The experience with the fibre cable that Statnett has put together with Skagerrak 4 – between Norway and Denmark – shows that when the fibre connection is first in place, the customers arrive. Apart from Statnet's own use, large parts of this fibre cable are now rented on a commercial basis. The proposals that we are going to vote on today, as the rapporteur has well explained, will help to establish new data centres and other data-based business in Norway. The government has presented the Digital Agenda for Norway. Here the government will, among other things, facilitate the socio-economical establishment of fibre cables abroad. There is also a point in developing a strategy for the socio-economical development of large data centres. Many of the proposals we are going to vote on today are included in the big message that will be addressed in the Stortinget later. We support the four proposals to be voted on. I just want to link some comments to one of them. During the examination of these proposals in the Committee, it was found that no data centre is currently making use of the reduced electricity tax introduced this year, i.e. in 2016, because they have no withdrawals of more than 5 MW. We in the Workers' Party are therefore in favour of a proposal for a decision to ask the government to "estimate reduced electricity charges also for data centres with a withdrawal of less than 5 MW as a power-intensive industry with a reduced rate of electricity charge".
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e462	I would like to thank the proposers for a constructive and good proposal – perhaps not so strange in view of the parties behind it – but also the Committee for the least constructive work on the matter. The proposal raises two important issues, firstly how we can facilitate the creation of more fibre cables abroad as quickly as possible, including: from Norway to the United Kingdom and Germany, and secondly, a strategy describing how authorities can facilitate the further establishment of green data centres in Norway. The right is concerned both with getting more independent fibre connections to and from Norway and with how we can establish more green data centres. We need good capacity at competitive prices, robust and secure connections and an opportunity to offer tailor-made solutions or so-called dark fibers. Today's modern society is completely dependent on these data highways that fiber cables represent. In particular, we were shown on Svalbard, which the Committee recently visited, among other things. New Ålesund is connected with all its advanced research. For them and for the Longyearbyen, with research, education and travel as important industries, this is seen as a clear competitive advantage. Norway is mainly linked to the continent via Sweden. In addition, we have three main connections with fibre optic sea cables. It is also important to note that the need for good fibre compounds is not necessarily linked to green data centres. Other economic operators and society in general will benefit from these investments. The right is therefore very comfortable to participate in the majority proposal asking the government to present a case for the creation of multiple fibre cables as soon as possible. There are several actors, both state and private, who may have the opportunity to contribute here. The second proposal to the right is to ask the government to present a strategy for setting up green data centres in Norway. We have a very good starting point with a cold climate, a good professional environment and abundant access to clean and renewable energy. The government has worked actively to establish such centres, and it is likely that the electricity charge for data centres over 5 MW has been reduced from 2016. Norway has a surplus of power generation, and data centres can become important to our country in the same way that other powerful industries have been and will continue to be important. We need to exploit the competitive benefits of hydropower and thereby contribute to green growth in Norway. In particular, it will open up opportunities in the districts close to the sources of power. The public has a clear potential for coordinating their data storage needs and an overall committee is behind a proposal to facilitate it. The public digitisation project, initiated by the Council of State Sanner, will also not reduce the need for data storage in the future. Finally, some words about the proposal Right does not stand behind today: the right does not think it is a good idea to remove the 5 MW limit for a reduced electricity charge. The idea behind the reduction was to attract the large data centres, of type Facebook in Luleå, which are estimated to provide 4,500 jobs in a 10-year perspective. By setting such a limit, we give a clear signal to the market. There are also several proposals addressing heat recovery requirements when setting up data centres. In view of all the heat produced by such centres, I am convinced that operators in the business community will make thorough assessments of this themselves. They'll set up heat recovery where it's reasonable and economical, and it's not safe they need a big deal to tell them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e477	It is a broad political majority of the representatives who support this proposal, and it has certainly done the rapporteur's job in a very simple way, but it has also done a good job. Many point out that the establishment of green data centres creates new jobs. And so does it, but it also has a safety dimension. In this way, Norway is a good country to establish itself in. The technology of new ICT and fiber is moving faster than many people can see. Cybercrime and terror on our digital infrastructure are an increasing danger, for which we must also equip ourselves in the future. New studies show that the increasing international traffic in data generates more economic values and growth than traditional trade in goods in physical transport. Values in many different forms are carried over digital infrastructure, and we have to be able to trust that these values work optimally and are well protected. Setting up green data centres can be a major new industry for Norway, and we have, as many have been involved, the factors that make it possible for us to succeed. What's interesting is that we find private actors all along the coast that are in the starting pit to invest in fiber. Here it will be important to have a good interaction between private and public actors, where the state must be a driver and not least facilitate this establishment – not necessarily as an owner, but as a facilitator for the whole industry. It will be a good and robust policy towards the private players. We have been made aware that a large data centre should at least be connected to three separate fibre cables to the major hubs of Europe and the United States. Through the government’s work on this, it is important that we get a comprehensive overview of the fibre network available in Norway. An increasing number of international fiber cables will give us more legs to stand on if we were to be subjected to different attacks on our digital infrastructure. By providing a more detailed overview of the fibre network we have in Norway today, while at the same time working for more fibre cables to come into place, we will be able to ensure safety and secure new jobs and increased skills in this area. There's a lot going on in the North, even in the case of fiber in Asia. It is therefore important for the government to follow up on what our Nordic neighbours do and are in good dialogue with them, in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, in terms of both public actors and private Norwegian actors. In conclusion, there is a reasonable overall committee behind the vote. There is one point to which government parties do not subscribe, and this is in assessing a reduced electricity charge for data centres with an output of less than 5 MW. I remember when we were in opposition, we suggested reducing that fee, but the red-greens went against it, because they would not have tax relief for the rich. Now the roles are obviously turned around for the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e496	As rapporteur, I would first like to thank the committees for their good work. It is important that there is a broad majority behind the comments, as well as the vote. There are several people here who have explained the potential of succeeding in establishing large green data centres in Norway, so I'm not going to do it again. I just want to stress the importance of both participating in the possible ring-effects, and not least that we have such great opportunities through access to clean power – and all the other prerequisites that allow this to be added to Norway rather than our power being used as advertising for centres established in Denmark, where Norwegian power cables happen to end up. In any case, it is important to see it in a broader context, that much of what we are discussing today, and what is in the setting, is important to be able to establish data centres, but it is also important in a vulnerability or security perspective – so there are many good reasons why one should be in favour of the option that exists. I thought I'd draw out that this is probably the third debate about green data centers in this period. At first we had the debate on the fee, through a proposal for a representative, and then we had an interpellation last year, and now we have a new proposal for a representative, which is also being adopted. It just shows that there's an offensive will from the great crowd to do things, to make things right. And we should also take this into account: that there is an offensive willingness to market Norway and to facilitate Norway's election by those who want to establish themselves. With regard to the proposal on fibre capacity, as many have stressed, it is one of the prerequisites – of course – to be able to establish it here. It is underlined time and again that there is a lack of dark fiber and cables out of the country, and there is also not good enough structure in the country. That means we have to work to get it organized. As the previous speaker pointed out, one indicates that at least one must have three separate points, or roads, out of the country, and preferably up against the big countries, in order to get the security that big companies need to establish data centres here. Today, a lot of traffic goes through Sweden, and then we are also vulnerable if something happens to that road. The second point of a strategy, I think, is also very important. The decision that is being taken does not say anything about time, so I am interested to hear what the Council of State thinks about it. The tax is one of the important tools for Norway to be attractive, and we have been very clear that it was more than 5 MW that was most important for the large green data centres, and as we write in the setting, that's exactly why we did it. And then the Christian People's Party is also involved in a proposal to evaluate the rest, i.e. they're under 5 MW, and that's where we're excited about the assessment that the Council of State will probably be included in the budget. With regard to the strategy and to view cables as one of the measures, we believe that there is no possibility of the Statnet cable to Germany and to the United Kingdom. It was granted a concession without any demand for fibre. It should have been done. It's not done. But then we will at least stress that fiber cables have to come to the rest of the world as soon as possible. That is why we are pleased that the Storting is so clear about it, and I expect the government to come quickly with it. In the strategy, it is at least equally important to have an offensive approach to market Norway. It's just looking at our neighboring countries. Sweden has its own company, as does Ireland, which markets land, which markets access to power, etc. to make it easy for those who wish to establish themselves. The same offensive position must also be taken by Norway. And then it's so banal that you have ready-to-use plots that lie there, so that those who take an interest can see that here's a "site", here it can be established – you can come tomorrow. Having that coordination there we think is important. The fees are in place, but fiber must be in place internationally, and also in the country. At least as important is marketing us as the good and attractive place Norway is in fact in order to receive the very largest data centres. And then, if we succeed, we also think we'll make it. There are many data centres to be established and unfortunately Norway has not yet been selected. We believe that, among other things: is because of the framework conditions, that things have not been well enough prepared. Through the decisions we make today, and a good follow-up by the government, we're making every effort to make it happen. And we're positive about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e515	I would also like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that there is such a broad consensus on this private proposal, as the representatives of Terje Breivik and Iselin Nybø, both from the Left, are behind, and that we now have a strategy for fibre cables and green data centres. This is one more step in a process with which it has been working for several years, as the representative Ropstad pointed out. There is a discussion which has also been held in Stortinget several times, both through private proposals, interpellations and in budgetary work. And that's in the budget we've put in place the important basis for getting data centres to Norway, namely by getting a reduced electricity charge, which we in the left are very pleased with. We also appreciate the cooperation we have had, especially with the Christian People's Party, but also with the government parties, to get it in place. There is no doubt that Norway is very suitable for larger data centres — we have a cool climate and many available plots, whether it is in Lefdal Gruve in Nordfjordeid or elsewhere where it is suitable. And the special thing about Norway is that with our access to renewable energy, these data centres are using a lot of energy, green data centres – which is the very point of getting this to Norway – that here we can make a contribution to reducing international greenhouse gas emissions while building up under new Norwegian business. However, as has been pointed out earlier, it is not just a matter of looking at the framework conditions and reducing the electricity charge. It is a fundamental condition for getting data centres to Norway, but the second aspect of this proposal is the need to improve fibre connections, both in Norway and abroad. It's a big commitment to getting this in place. This is not least what we have seen in the decision-making processes we have had to get power cables to Germany and the United Kingdom, for example. in Suldal, Rogaland, where there is a strong local commitment to this, and at the same time to put in place fibre compounds. We understand that we should be out earlier, and that it should be in the processes at an earlier stage. But when that's not the case, we need a new initiative from the government. We need a strategy to get these fiber connections in place. I'm glad we do. Otherwise, from the left, the most important thing in terms of the reduction in the electricity charge is to look at the larger data centres of more than 5 MW. It is in place, but we still support the Committee's position asking the government to assess whether there is also a need to look at those that are less than 5 MW, and asking for a case to be made to establish more fibre cables abroad and a strategy for the establishment of green data centres in Norway. I also believe that the last point, for which it is a majority, is to ask the government to facilitate better coordination of public data storage needs, is an important issue on which we must continue to work. This is an important issue of an economic development that can be of considerable importance in Norway. We are, as has been pointed out earlier here, in a competitive relationship not least with our Scandinavian neighbours. They've been out in the past, including getting the framework conditions in place. Now we follow in Norway. We have the same good framework conditions, and we have the same natural advantages that they have – perhaps even better – through the facilities we have in mines and elsewhere. Now we are taking one step further to get more green data centres in Norway. It is good for Norwegian industry development, and it is also a good environmental action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e535	Let me start by saying that I'm positive about establishing new jobs in a socially useful area, which is running data centers. I am positive about establishing data centres in Norway. I also welcome the fact that tasks for which it is necessary to use electricity must use zero-emission energy, and that is how electricity we have in Norway. There's also a reason why building heating should happen to forms of energy other than electricity, so that we can use the electricity for what we have to use it for. I am also positive about the construction of new fibre cables, and it is good that the government should present a case about that. I also welcome the coordination of public needs for data centres. But I'm critical that new industries have to depend on tax relief to establish themselves. We need more industries that are able to pay taxes in Norway, not more that depend on tax laws to establish themselves. We agreed to a reduced rate in the electricity charge for large data centres, but I think there is a need to have ice cream in the stomach of this case. In this case, we would therefore rather play the ball over to the government, so that they can carry out a thorough investigation to assess how we will implement a further strategy for data centres. I am also uncertain about the amount of competence jobs. The most hopeful hope is in thousands of jobs, but there are unclear analyses of this. I wanted to see that we got a more thorough review from the government before we jumped on the proposal that is here. Large data centres have a high consumption. They have a stabilising effect on the grid. Small centres do not have it, and therefore we think it makes sense to limit reduced electricity charges to the large data centres. What I think is the main anchor point towards the line the majority has applied to, is the question of heat recovery. The majority say that data centres in Norway are green in any case, regardless of whether they have heat recovery or not. But energy wasting is not green. If you look at what the International Energy Agency points to as the most important thing we have to do to be able to stop dangerous climate change, it is to bet heavily on energy efficiency improvement. What is a data center? Well, a data center needs power for two things: it needs power to run servers and to drive cooling down the big servers. In the vote, the majority of us do not support the proposal to require heat use and heat recovery at the data centres. I think it should be a crossroads of thought for all parties when we provide support in the million-class energy efficiency improvement, while at the same time providing tax relief to establish data centers that throw all the heat into the ocean, potentially. In the center of Lambertseter – you can plug up on Lambertseter here in Oslo – the heat from the refrigerator is used to warm up the rest of the complex. At the University of Bergen, heat is used from the data centres to heat up other areas that require heating. However, in the projects for large data centres in Norway I have seen sketches of until now, there is no large-scale heat recovery. We now see a panic in the power industry because of the low power prices, and there's something that leads to short-termity. I have been sitting 15 years on Stortinget, and during that period, there have been two complaints about the power crisis and excessive prices. Therefore, I believe that when we now have a lot of power available, we should give priority to using that power to replace fossil power use by increasing fossil power consumption charges to make people and businesses choose zero-emission cars and zero-emission solutions instead of fossil energy solutions. We have to use our valuable electricity in the best way. We don't do that when we throw hot cooling water in the fjords. That's the opposite of green and the opposite of the energy efficiency improvement that we need, whether we're going to achieve the global climate goals. That's why I think it's absolutely crucial in the process ahead that we demand that the heat from the data centres be used – otherwise we'll be sitting here in a few years and saying, "Oh, my God, we have to make a social welfare scheme through Enova, so that the data centres can use the heat." It'll be like giving with both hands. I would like to address the two proposals SV are on their own in the vote, and the proposal that SV has with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e561	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e565	Today’s discussion is important because it is most forward-looking. We are discussing the infrastructure needs of digital communications in the future, and there will be more and more digital communication, more and more digitisation of different services in the society in which we live. Then it is important that we develop the infrastructure to be at the bottom. Today we are discussing a lot of fiber, but the wireless mobile data infrastructure is also an important part of the whole. I think it is important that Norway should be in the forefront. We're going to be a place where it's attractive to invest both in infrastructure, in tech companies and in user devices in the sense that we're going to make it easier to be a resident of this country by getting access to information in a better way. Therefore, just a few weeks ago, the government presented a big message about a digital agenda and an echo plan. There we made it clear how one of the states believes that we can digitize more of society in a positive way for the inhabitants. It's about everything from what we know today, self-declaration, that has become a much simpler affair for most people now than it was before, but it's also about how we in the health care community, in education, in all sectors of life, can get information from the public in a better way and respond in a better way. In the transport sector, for example, it deals with: to be able to access driver card information about themselves, it is about information to travellers in everyday life, it is about common ticketing and scheduling systems, and it is about something as advanced as an autonomous vehicle. If a few are to do this, one must have legislation and legislators on the road, one must have market players and technology developers on the track, but the most important thing is to have an infrastructure at the bottom that manages large amounts of data, capable of handling the communication that is to be done rapidly between actors. The government has had a lot of focus on this work not only in the last few months, but in the 30 months we have been sitting and driving. We have stressed that we should develop good capacity, we should ensure robust networks, and we should stimulate development where the market itself does not do that job. This means that there are aid schemes that are being continued to help the market. That is why we have put money on the table by the government, adopted in Stortinget, to ensure better battery backup in some places to help district municipalities have more robust capacity and make stricter demands for market players. We feel that there is a good discussion between market players and the state in this area. There's good cooperation here. Even though the actors compete between themselves, they have a lot of things that they see there is a need to stick with the authorities to get in place. The industry invests billions in different parts of the fibre network and telecom infrastructure. It has proved to be a good strategy across several governments to leave the market ahead, and we're adding that up for now. So we want to be involved and stimulate that this happens to a greater extent, and not least in terms of large data centers. It has not until now become aware that there is a potential investment space and a potential job. It has also been discussed across many governments. I am very pleased that there is now such a consensus that we are going to use the tax and tax system to stimulate this, which we did not experience when we put ourselves in opposition. Six months ago, I was with some others from the Department of Transportation and our offices in the United States. We were in San Francisco and met many different computer actors, ranging from those who develop apps and systems to those who deliver and create data centers. They knew very well what was going on in Norway. I felt that when they challenged us with questions, it wasn't because they wondered about the answers, but it was really to check whether the politicians knew what kind of country they were in. It is through Invest in Norway that Norway has a coordinating task with these actors. It's not like there's no active sale of Norway to these actors, it's done the most, but Invest in Norway is involved in coordinating, and they were also in these meetings we had. What I experienced is that the actors who want to invest in green data centres are very concerned that they should also be involved in owning the infrastructure. And then it's not always like where politicians want to expand infrastructure based on where their own voters live, where the data centre operators themselves plan to expand. It's a bit of the delicate approach we have to have here, that while we're going to be a political driver, we also have to see that we have to play along with the market and at the same time accept their anonymity until investments are made, so that we actually realize more projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e585	There will, of course, be a majority in favour of a proposal here today to ask the government to present a case on how more fibre cables can be established abroad as quickly as possible. When is ‘as fast as possible’ for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e590	«As fast as possible» is as fast as possible, and I can only say that we are already in that work. When I was over in the United States last November, it was just to look at how we can help make Norway an attractive place for different big players. We met many – large and very, very large – just to hear what they care about when they look at where to invest. One of the things they had brought with them was a reduced electricity charge – it's right on the bottom line. But what they also pointed out is that they feel that it is a little difficult to get to Norway if you are going to have two years of regulation to be allowed to build a data centre. What was my impression when we asked them what they planned, in the short and long term, was that ‘in the short term’ is one month for them – ‘in the long term’ is six months. If we have a public sector that spends a few years getting the plans in place, we lose in this work. Therefore, it is important that Invest in Norway and others work with Norwegian municipalities and work with these actors, so that we are prepared for requests to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e595	I then interpret it as if we were already in the state budget for treatment for the autumn, we could see that some of these proposals have been included in the State budget, and then again will be dealt with in the Stortinget. Now there was a round table conference in the direction of the Ministry of Transport yesterday that was about just fiber and fibre cables abroad – very good. I would like to ask the Council of State if he can explain what emerged at this Round Table. Is it any part of the country that designates itself? I know that there has been work on spatial plans in several municipalities to facilitate this. How many jobs could this mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e602	We will of course report on the work we are doing in the state budget. Let me just say that we haven't been sitting and waiting for a decision like this to get us started, but I'm very happy that there's such a broad consensus about what a person wants to achieve. That makes the government know that we have even better backing when we travel around with our work. I would also like to mention that a short time ago – two weeks ago – the Finnish Minister of Transport was in Norway. This was one of the topics we also discussed with them — Finland has a closer connection to the east for historical reasons — and that is something we want to work with them on. So it's true that there was a meeting yesterday. We have a lot of different hit points with the industry. What we're trying to map – I also wrote in the letter to the Committee – is: are there areas where market players who say they want to own, yet do they see that there are coordination or size problems, where the state would have to be involved in order to be a catalyst or in a way to contribute lubricants in order for investment to take place? We're willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e611	I will first give tribute to the Council of State for his offensive attitude to join in and realize what is adopted in the Storting today, in the fastest possible way. A recent concession has been granted to several foreign tables without the requirement for fibre being included in the concession at the same time. Now I'm aware that it's the Oil and Energy Department that gives concession to power cables. Nevertheless, I assume that the state councils are cooperating, and then my question is: what will the state council do in the future in order to better exploit the possibilities offered by power cables in order to be able to install fibre cables, in terms of saving money and getting things done faster? It applies from Norway to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e616	Thank you for your cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I experience that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have put things on the map in a better way and got to, for example. lower electricity charge, which is important for the actors. When it comes to exploiting synergies, when a first builds a type of infrastructure, exploiting the resources deployed, building other infrastructure, hoping to save money, it is important for us. We're looking at this when we build roads and railways, and it's natural that one also assesses when a building electricity line. Then in the letter to the committee, attached to the matter, I made it clear that we took a round with Statnet on this. They made their assessments and thought that it was not very resource-efficient to do so at the same time. But as I also write, as a result, Statnett nevertheless said that they want to move on with a stand-alone fibre project. It also shows that we have given signals to Statnet, which are different from what they have been before. So that doesn't mean that every time we look at a project, it'll come out with green numbers and green light, but it's important that we use every opportunity to look at this kind of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e623	First, I just want to say that I think it is very good that the Council of State is so offensive and also knowledgeable in the field. The first document 8 the Christian People's Party had on a fee, of course went to the Minister of Finance, but the interview went to the Minister of Industry, and now it's the Minister of Transport. I feel that the Minister of Transport and the Department have taken the coordinating responsibility, and I think that is very right and important for the matter to come as far as possible in the future. Then I also think that the Council of State pointed out some key things. He was in on the control plans and the fact that it could take a few years before things are clear. That's not good enough for the big players. He also pointed out that there are private initiatives and would like to contribute, possibly investing in cables, but that perhaps coordination needs to be helped or lubricated – I do not know exactly what words the Council of State used. That is why I believe that the strategy to be developed is perhaps one of the most important things. I would like the fibre cables to be built immediately, and that the public had ownership for security reasons and security reasons, and also that it was just done. The impatience we show today after it is to be as rapid as possible, but also in terms of coordination, is important. That is why we are impatient about the strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e632	First, I'm very happy that one of the changes we made a couple of years ago was to gather all the responsibility for telecoms more in the Ministry of Transport in terms of the infrastructure part. It is natural that the ownership of Telenor is located in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fee Policy is located in the Ministry of Finance. But having everything to do with infrastructure, together in one department, has been essential for us to see the whole thing. Not least because we are now working with the National Transport Plan, we see that the digitisation of the transport sector will be one of the most important things we have to discuss in relation to previous national transport plans. In that case, a basic telecommunications infrastructure must be available in order for it to function. Then we work very closely towards Invest in Norway. As I said, they were on the trip we had in California, and they met the actors. We have a lot of dialogue with them too in retrospect, and it will be a good cooperation with those who make the strategy that I believe we are already implementing, but who also need to be further emigrated when we present it to the Stortinget will be important. It is also important to respect the fact that there are many private actors here who do not want to expand all their plans in the public domain.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e641	The debate here today has shown that in some areas we have come quite far, and in other areas new measures will be needed. It is a very broad majority on the Stortinget that today is asking very concretely for a case to be submitted on fibre cables and asking for a strategy. The reports provided by the US Councils also show that there are some expectations of the private actors in terms of treatment and regulation plans, etc., which are important – the more important it is that the strategy comes as quickly as possible, the more important it is that the Storting should be able to see an overall strategy to facilitate the conditions for those who want to establish a data centre. So the question to the Council of State must be, can we expect that strategy and that matter to come to the Storting in the next six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e647	As mentioned, it is natural for us to include this in the State budget. So I also want to stress, as I've said a couple of times, that it's not like nothing's happened in the last few years. On the contrary, we have taken a lot of new steps in the last 30 months. I have mentioned Invest in Norway several times, which also works structuredly and on a planned basis against the players abroad, and who work structuredly and systematically against many actors in Norway just to enable them to match what we have to offer, with what are the needs of different actors. It's quite natural at the same time that Invest in Norway doesn't go out and tell about everything they do at any time, because here's a lot of people going to invest money. They do not want to expand their investment plans when they know that there are many competitors who want to invest in the same area or who have other strategies for Europe. That's why we need to have a little touch of what we're communicating outside, and what we're working on anyway, so we don't make Norway a little attractive country, because people are afraid that once they talk about Norway, everything will be published.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e656	Ordinary electricity consumers are currently paying Enova a single penny of their electricity charge. The money that goes to Enova is used for energy efficiency improvements, among others. in the post-installation industry for heat recovery, as is the case in several parts of industrial plants around the country. We're for this. But now that we're going to set up a large, new heat-intensive industry in Norway, isn't it reasonable to demand heat recovery and to make use of the heat from the start, as part of the assumptions when you get the tax incentive that's there? My question is simply: does the Council think it is important to demand that, or look at how, the heat from these data centres can be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e663	I believe that to develop a business life in Norway will be a far too narrow perspective. We need to see how to develop data centres in Norway that are more competitive than in other countries. They may have even worse energy accounts in other countries. Then it will be an advantage, I believe, globally and for Norway that we put them in Norway anyway, rather than pushing them out of the country. So it's that costs and bottom line mean a lot to where these are established. If one imposes on an enterprise costs regardless of its benefits, but only because one has to have a fundamental claim to do so, it may be enough not to get actors to Norway, even if it would make sense from an energy and environmental point of view to get to Norway. Thirdly, we already have an instrument to stimulate things like this. It's called Enova. I visited them as late as yesterday, and they're going to help us spend taxpayers' money and society's resources on energy recovery in those places where it's as efficient as possible. That's why I'm not going to worry about whether this is going to be a problem. This I'm sure we'll solve. But if we push it in front of us every time we meet a market player, I fear that it makes them want to turn their backs on Norway and go to other countries. I won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e674	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e679	Firstly, as a co-rapporteur, I would like to say that I am very satisfied with the position on the matter and also with the consideration that this proposal has received in the Committee. That the Stortinget now asks the government to present a matter as soon as possible about how we can add more fibre cables to the rest of the world, including. to the United Kingdom and Germany, hopefully Norway will strengthen its basis for setting up green data centres and data-based activities. Norway has many advantages, many of which have experienced, in order to succeed in attracting some of the perhaps 200 centres expected in the Nordic region by 2020. There is great access to renewable energy, stable geology and steady political governance. Now that we have a competitive electricity tax and effective direct fibre connections with Europe, it provides the basis for success in setting up businesses. I also think it is very good that there is a majority in the committee that asks the government to assess the reduction in the electricity charge also for data centres with an output of less than 5 MW. It is also important for actors to become competitive, especially during the construction phase, until they reach the 5 MW threshold. In the South, these establishments currently have a high focus, which will help to make a positive contribution to the migration of the region. Bulk Property at Støleheia in Vennesla has already started the plots for establishment. At the same time, they stress that the assumption is a reduced electricity tax that is in place, but it is also important that new fibre compounds are put in place as soon as possible. Our part of the country is an energy hub, and Statnett is now investing tens of billions in the region by upgrading the central network and new foreign connections, as well as the already existing ones. The municipalities in the Lista region include: based on the great effort made by the State here, it has come a long way in its plans to facilitate such establishments. In my opinion, today's decision in the Storting in this case helps to facilitate and is the basis of a new green industry in Norway. The government's positive signals today are perceived as good, and I also expect the government to be involved and actively follow up today's decision as soon as possible, and that the state is involved and actively contributing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e692	Thank you to the two committees for a positive and offensive attitude to this proposal. As many have experienced, data storage is a new power-intensive industry that is growing rapidly worldwide. The need for central data storage and processing is rapidly increasing in scope and prevalence. In terms of location of data centres, Norway is cutting high because we can provide reasonable and safe renewable energy, a cool climate, a high level of education, political stability and predictable investment environments. In addition, Norway has made profits on renewable energy, and improvements in the electricity tax have greatly improved the financial framework conditions. Fibre cables to the rest of the world, including to Germany and the United Kingdom, will strengthen the basis for setting up green data centres and other data-based business activities in Norway. In the context of Statnett's concession for the installation of power cables for Germany and England, it was investigated whether it was possible to add fibre cables together with the power cables. The conclusion was that there was a significant risk of delays in doing so, but that Statnett would like to contribute to the project based on the self-benefit of a fibre connection. Studies show that there is also a high commercial interest in investment in this market. In the South, there has been a long job to facilitate the establishment of this type of industry, based on good access to renewable energy. At Støleheia in Vennesla, construction is already under way, and other areas of interest have been surveyed in the county. Several of the locations are also involved in Energy Norway’s monitoring work, and the work is also coordinated against Invest in Norway. This could mean the creation of new jobs, with significant synergies in a country that needs it as a matter of urgency, after the large fall in the oil industry. It is gratifying that a large majority in the Grand Duchy sees the need for this, and we look forward to the government presenting a case to the Grand Duchy on how more fibre cables from Norway to abroad can be established as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e707	It is gratifying, as many have already noted, that the Committee on Energy and the Environment is presenting a position which underlines the importance of speeding up work on the strategy for the development of fibre cables abroad and the establishment of green data centres. Then we just have to note that in the absence of a national strategy in this area, Norway has made arrears in relation to what our neighbouring country has the power to do. There is no doubt that Norway has many good conditions for becoming an attractive country for setting up data centres in the years to come. Several have already mentioned this. The bottleneck today in order to make Norway an attractive nation for this type of activity in the future is undoubtedly a lack of fibre links between Norway and the rest of the world, i.e. to central parts of Europe. Adequate fibre capacity is not only about the necessary capacity to carry data information, it is also about establishing a capacity that provides the necessary security at all times. In the pursuit of new land-based jobs in our own country, the data centres established in northern Sweden in recent years provide an exciting perspective on the opportunities for new jobs that data centres, with associated support functions, can contribute to in our own country. There is no doubt that with the natural assumptions Norway has for access to renewable energy, it should be a central task to use it to create new activities in our own country. Now, we should put everything we can into taking root, renewable energy, in order to create further new industrial jobs in a new area. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has clearly stated that Norway has a major competitive advantage in this area, which is to be put into service. We now have a situation, not least in the South and in the West, where there is a sharp decline in jobs in oil and gas. Thousands are affected by lay-offs and lay-offs. It's a crisis situation. Therefore, we are pleased that we have investors who have already started looking at the possibility of setting up green data centres. What they point out very clearly is that in order to achieve this, we need to have fibre connections to the rest of the world. It is therefore a clear expectation on the part of the Christian People's Party that the government not only creates a strategy and facilitates this through plans, but also looks at how they can assume financial partial responsibility for doing so. Just as the State is responsible for road, rail and airport infrastructure, it is natural that the State also assumes a primary responsibility for building fibre connections abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e722	Green data centres are created for Norway. We have good access to natural cold for cooling server parks, which provides energy efficiency, Norway is geologically stable, without danger of earthquakes or other major natural disasters, and we have economic and political stability, which makes it safe to invest in our country. In addition, we have skilled labour and good broadband infrastructure. These are also important criteria that international customers are concerned with ensuring their data. In the 2016 government budget, a reduced rate has been adopted in the electricity charge for data centres with withdrawals above 5 MW. This is good, and it facilitates the establishment of green data centres in Norway, but there are few data centres that are up to that consumption when operating. The working party is therefore also involved in a proposal to ask ‘the government to assess a reduced electricity charge also for data centres with an output of less than 5 MW’. Our weakest point is that Norway currently does not have enough fibre capacity to attract large players abroad. At the same time, we see that other nations, such as our neighbour Finland, have adopted the establishment of fibre cables for Germany. The traditional way to store data has been to do it yourself, but that approach has changed dramatically in recent years. Today, public and private enterprises can buy the storage capacity they need as a service on the Internet. An increasing number of enterprises need data storage and look after cost-effective and flexible data storage solutions. This is also a green trend, as cloud networks and solutions significantly increase capacity utilisation. The market is international. Data centres may provide storage and process services across borders. Development of green data centres aimed at both Norwegian and international businesses represents a major potential growth and development potential for the Norwegian ICT industry, and in many places in our country, the ICT industry is ready to deliver. Among other things, I have visited Mo Industripark and Arctic Circle Data Center, which has come a long way with its plans for the establishment of a centre. This lies in an industrial park with established infrastructure and abundant access to environmentally friendly hydropower. But they also point out the need for threads with dark fiber to the rest of the world. I am engaged in the Norwegian ICT industry and that it will be competitive and able to provide services on the international market. I am concerned about the potential we have for renewing the public sector through efficient ICT operations, and, in addition, the establishment of environmentally friendly data centres is a good climate policy. In the submitted deposit notification, Report. St. 27, The Digital Agenda for Norway, including its ecosystem, which is now being treated, addresses the government's challenge of creating more fibre cables, and then so-called dark cable to the market – and I quote: ‘As a starting point, the government believes that if there is a large commercial need from many operators, there is reason to believe that operators would be interested in establishing more fibre cables abroad.’ Furthermore, the same Communication states that one should examine how to facilitate the socio-economic viability of fibre cables and that a strategy should be developed. This seems to be a slightly passive approach, as it is urgent – I stress the urgency – to put in place a fibre solution that ensures Norwegian entrepreneurs a competitive advantage. I therefore hope that the broad political majority in the Grand Duchy in this matter will help the government to speed up that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e746	The learnt battles over bundled fibre and power cables affect operational safety or safety. Some claim that this is entirely unproblematic, while others are concerned that it is an advantage to build separately for the purposes of maintenance and feasibility of investigations at downtime. The proposers of this Document 8 thought it important to clarify this, while the proposal is also a clear call for and a wish to optimise the solutions in order to get the necessary, forward-looking fibers in place as quickly as possible. The rapid realisation of the necessary infrastructure will strengthen Norway as a place for the establishment of green data centres. The Ekomplan, to be dealt with in Stortinget as part of the Digital Agenda, will outline the government's further efforts to facilitate this type of industry in Norway. One of the actions launched in the plan is that we now need to identify demand for and access to infrastructure that the data centre can make use of. With increased knowledge, we'll be able to know more about what's needed to make safe constructions in Norway. The cancellation granted a reduced electricity tax from 2016 to a data centre that uses more than 5 MW, and that is good. But to extend this to a reduced electricity charge system also for those who use less than 5 MW, we think we can cause accidental effects. In fact, data center is not a unique action, and if you were to remove the force output limit that you have now seen, there is actually no longer any possibility of a reasonable restriction. So we go into the right to keep the agreement as it is. I found it positive to see that the Storting shows a broad commitment attached to fibre cabling to the rest of the world. We need to ensure that we now stimulate the fastest, safest and most cost-effective deployment and operation of this type of infrastructure. Initially, it is not Statnett's job to build fiber, but if Statnett takes a leading role and ensures that a move forward with a clean fibre cabling project where an external investor may be admitted, it could be a positive contribution. However, it is also important that there are no different international and national actors who have plans on the table and who need rapid clarification of framework conditions and potential. I look forward to the government's further work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e759	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e773	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e780	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter and giving tribute to the rapporteurs from the Labour Party for a good, well-worked and well-founded proposal in an important matter. In addition, the government deserves to boast of cooperation in order to get this case ashore. For this reason, we are in the pleasant situation that we have a unanimous growth that today unites to provide municipalities in Norway with a very important tool in the fight against poor air quality in cities and greenhouse gas emissions. Several hundred European cities have already implemented different low-emission zones, and interventions have been tried out well in countries such as Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark. In Norway, for various reasons, this tool has remained in the drawer for many years, despite the fact that the challenges of air quality and health in our cities have been great for a long time. My impression is that there has been some confusion about what types of low-carbon zones it has actually been allowed to introduce, and in this area, the Ministry of Transport has now done a very good cleaning job. It has now been understood and established that there is a basis for a ban solution, but that until now there has not been a legal basis for the resolution called for by several of the country's major cities. The reason why it is now important that we adopt a framework for an oblat based low-emission zone solution is that such an oblat solution would be a more flexible instrument than a purely prohibition solution. It will not prevent travel that is absolutely necessary, and it will facilitate a gradual and predictable conversion of the fleet. In addition, a low-emission zone regulated by an oblat solution is easy to implement because it will function roughly as a current well-known high-density charging scheme, and it is an elastic instrument that can be tightened or softened through increased or reduced prices as technology and air quality requirements, greenhouse gas emissions reductions and other things change. I hope that this unanimous decision to collapse means that the health problems of local air pollution in the big cities are now being taken seriously in the Stortinget and in the big cities. It's high time. It's quite special that we've let this problem continue to hit the inhabitants of our big cities for so long when we've been able to do something about it, but so choose not to do it. The House of Law has been in a drawer in the department for years, first under the red-green government, then under today's government. Many people have paid a high price with their health because of this sewer. Therefore, I hope that the unanimity in this matter is a sign that more and more parties now realise that major and fundamental changes are necessary in Norwegian transport policy, and there are several reasons for this. Firstly, the whole world has just been gathered in Paris and signed an agreement that says in practice that we have to stop releasing greenhouse gases. This conversion requires strong instruments that make it rational to choose emission-free solutions. The law house we're adopting here today is such an instrument. It is not a negative instrument, but it is a necessary instrument that drives the development in the right and constructive direction. Secondly, over the last few years, there has been increasing evidence that local air pollution is very harmful to health. The number of years of life lost in Europe as a result of poor air is, of course, alarmingly high, as is the extent of reduced quality of life, freedom of movement and airway plague, particularly affecting small children, asthmatics and others with different types of respiratory disorders. We're doing so little to tighten these limits, but we still have a long way to go before we comply with the Public Health Institute's recommendations. The new law house that we are adopting today is a very important and constructive step forward, but more steps remain. And thirdly, more and more people realize that it's an extremely bad idea to base our urban transport policy on more car traffic. Our scarcest resource in cities is area, and cars are the least landmarted means of transport we have. Municipalities will choose different solutions to reduce air pollution, but it is nevertheless very important that explosives are now being deployed to complete the regulations for Oblat-based low-carbon zones. We have to get this clear in winter, and then we can meet a new chapter in the work of a clean urban air.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e799	First of all, thanks to the case rapporteur for what I thought was a good post, but not least for doing a very good job of leading to the Storting meeting today on a very important decision. Poor air quality is globally one of the most important environmental problems we have. Here again in Norway, this is a major social problem. Several days a year, the air is so poor that it is literally lethal. We know that after the most polluting days, there is a greater mortality. It is not acceptable for young children and sick people to be warned against being out. There is a lot of talk that this applies to single days in winter, but it is more serious than that. It's not just on extra cold days. We know that there has also been a warning against being out, and we know how dangerous it is in a single day. But at the same time, we know that the most serious thing is the long-term effect, the effect we get from breathing bad air every day. The municipalities of Norway are responsible for giving their inhabitants clean and fresh air, but they must also have the means to do so. We have a government that is not a supporter of local politicians' desire to do something about the air quality of their cities. When the new Oslo City Council said they would step up the work of reducing the number of cars and improving the air, our finance minister said that this memory of bad nightmares, and that now people would take back the politicians. We also realised that a large part of Siv Jensen's national meeting speech a week ago was a harelas with the work of the Oslo politicians to improve air quality. The right-wing Party government does not do the job required by them. On the contrary, they disagree. The initiative is in Stortinget. The decision is taken by bringing the opposition together, often against the votes of the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal on low-emission zones, following a proposal from the Left, was unanimously adopted at Stortinget on 17 March 2015. 14 months have passed, and little has happened. That is why we in the Workers' Party have not had time to wait for a government that does not follow the unanimous decision of the Stortinge. The local politicians want it, and the Stortinget has unanimously adopted it. Some clearer marshalls for the minister would be difficult to imagine. Nevertheless, little has happened. In the Workers' Party we therefore took the unusual step and promoted a legal text here in Stortinget. We did not have time to wait for a government that did not trade. That is why we are now pleased that that decision seems to be unanimous in the Storting today. Finally, I also hope that the Minister will note the comments of all opposition parties on a tightening of the threshold for particulate matter, based on the recommendation of the government's own professional bodies. In this area too, the Right Party and the Advance Party have previously opposed. Decisions have been taken in the Stortinget against the votes of the Right and the Progressive Party. So I hope the minister sees that the bulk of the population has now come to realize that the government's own professional body is proposing a tightening. That's what the Storting has come together about. I hope the government follows up what is the will of the majority of the population. If not, we will see if we may have to come back to new representative proposals in this area as well. But that should be unnecessary when it's obvious what the big crowd's will is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e814	Poor air quality in big cities is a challenge, especially in winter when the air is cold. We have a serious back cover for this matter. Norway has been charged with air quality offences in the EFTA Court for the period 2009-2012. However, many measures have been implemented in recent years that, after all, progress is moving in the right direction, and the trend shows that air quality is getting better and better. In 2014, the figures show that the limit values for particulate matter were not exceeded in some Norwegian cities, but NOX remains a challenge, particularly in Oslo and Bergen. The variation is at all quite large between cities and cities, from year to year, depending on weather conditions. Therefore, it is important that we provide the appropriate tools to the municipalities so that they can take effective action in their area when needed. Good cooperation between state, county and local authorities is at all a prerequisite for success in improving the air quality of cities. Many important measures have been implemented, not least in the city we are now in, to prevent the situation of acute air pollution from occurring. At the same time, we must continue to pay attention to the long-term measures, such as expanding public transport, so that more people can leave the car standing and rather choose trains, buses or railways. It is important to facilitate cyclists, so that those who are going to take short trips can travel by bicycle or on foot rather than by car. Technological development and new alternative fuels for public transport and passenger cars are also an important contribution. The car is too much of the local air pollution, but buses and heavy transport are releasing even more. Therefore, it is important to make sure that the buses we have use of environmentally friendly fuels so that bioethanol, biogas, hydrogen or electricity can replace diesel. Enova's new programme for the transport sector is particularly important in this context. However, we need more instruments to reduce air quality in our largest cities. I am therefore pleased that it is an overall committee that today promotes an attitude for Stortinget to allow municipalities to establish low-emission zones. Although it didn't sound like that on the post we just heard from the Workers' Party, there's actually agreement on this. I'll actually give the honor, I, to the Workers' Party for promoting a sensible proposal, which has enabled the Committee to gather on a common position. In this context, I would nevertheless like to stress that the proposal adopted here today has been thoroughly investigated by the professional authorities. I would also like to point out that there are experiences from many other European cities that contribute to providing a good basis for the drafting of the legal framework. It is positive that today we can provide municipalities with a new instrument to reduce air pollution. So low-emission zones are in addition to many of the instruments we already have, including: peak tyre charge, parking regulation, environmental traffic limits, tolls, date travel and driving ban. Low-emission zones combined with other powerful instruments, such as the development of public transport and new technologies for both bus and car, enable us to see optimistically that the positive trend with ever better air in big cities can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e832	Despite the much better air quality in Norway in the last 20 years, our largest cities still face formidable challenges, especially in cold days. Many winter days when I come from Oslo and land at Vigra outside Ålesund, it's a really good feeling to pull the fresh sea air down into my lungs. But enough about my own experiences. There have been several requests for a tool for these challenges – a tool that we now provide to the big cities. One might imagine a number of objections to a system such as low-emission zones, but the objections do not outweigh the importance of providing local authorities with a basis, with the agreement of the Ministry, to introduce such zones. One may also object that such an authorisation should not be granted through the examination of a Document 8. This is an exception in that way. We have been assured that the legal text is quality proof. I would also like to point out the draft document 8, which was negotiated last year. The Christian People's Party was part of the majority who asked the government to promote a case about this. When it went out in time and we got a new winter with the same problems, it had to be cut through. There is no doubt that air pollution is a major problem in many cities and that current levels of air pollution in several cities and agglomerations in Norway contribute to health problems. The World Health Organisation assesses air pollution as one of the main risk factors for premature death and adverse health effects. The largest source of local air pollution in Norway is road traffic with exhaust and asphalt dust emissions. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that an overall committee was in favour of the system that allows municipalities in the Road Traffic Act to establish low-emission zones. I do not need to share criticism with either the previous government or the sitting government because this has taken time, although it can rightly be said that this should have been in place a long time ago. But now we finally got there that we are ready to give our big cities a means of doing something about acute air pollution from car traffic. I'm glad that there's an overall committee that's behind the main handle in the vote. Together with the Left Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, the Christian People's Party points out that in some places it would be appropriate to include ports and fairways in the low-emission zones. In many places ships at berth are a major source of emissions that create problems. Fortunately, there's a trend in the positive direction to do something about this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e849	I must say that this is a great day for Norwegian cities. I think it's a big day, too. I think I've been working to put in place low-emission zones and environmental zones in Oslo for almost 15 years without having the legal home that is needed to get it done. This is something we really have reason to be satisfied with. Throughout Europe, urban air has become worse in the 2000s, mainly because diesel cars have gained such a violent dominance. It is a national responsibility to address and reduce this, but in the meantime cities need tools to reduce air pollution in their own city. What's important today is two-part. First of all, it's the decision we're making that by law enforcement, cities are given the opportunity to introduce the building and to charge for driving in the central parts of the city. Equally important is the clarification given by the Council of State that we already have a law house to have prohibitive zones in the center of cities. I must honestly say that it is very enjoyable, but it is also a little strange that we now get to know that we can, when we did not have that opportunity a few years ago – with the same law. But the clarification is absolutely crucial. When, earlier in the discussions on acute air pollution during the winter period, we have been told that temporary bans can also be applied, we are almost entirely in favour of measures on the instrument side in the case of emission zones. It just remains that the State Road Service is also involved in the acute restrictions when cities want it, in order to achieve it. This must also be seen in the context of several things we have done. I'm not going to tell you who to complain about or not, but now at least during this big period we have delegated a lot of instruments to the big cities. They've got something as simple and important as signage. It makes it easier to organize for bicycles and bike paths. We are in a process where they will be allowed to impose environmental requirements on the taxi industry. There's a lot of work done at the same time, and that's how cities now have the tools they need to deal with their own pollution. There is no excuse for the state not to contribute. The state is a very central player to get it done, but the big difference from earlier I think is that now there is no doubt that we have an interaction between cities and the state to reduce air pollution locally. In the past, there has been a tendency to be indebted to each other. Who really is responsible? Is it national, or is it local? Of other things, we have changed the charging system, making the use of biogas easier for public transport in the big cities. We are in the process and agree that we should have a hydrogen strategy, a commitment to it. And there's also a national effort to electrify public transport. There's a lot that's done, and there's a lot that's done at the same time. With regard to the device, I really think that the prohibitive zones are perhaps a suitable instrument as oblatforms. In particular, it is against the transport of goods locally that we have not had instruments in the past. Passenger car transport by diesel cars accounts for about one third of emissions, it is heavy transport, where there is a need for bypasses, and then it is the internal transport of goods, where no action has been taken in the past. Now cities get all the tools they need over time to ensure that the transport of goods in central parts of cities not only becomes less polluting, but also that we can have a zero emission target. It is an important step to both make the industry environmentally friendly and also to improve the air situation in large cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e862	There is no doubt that acute air pollution is a major challenge for several of the Norwegian metropolitan cities, and that the instruments are also sought and handled in a slightly different way in the different cities. In today's case, there is an overall committee that stands together to give cities another basis for action. I feel that the consensus within the Committee is also a little linked to the respect for the majority of the proposal in document 8, last year, where a request for a case on low-emission zones. Then I think there is a reason to point out that the case also shows that a person already has a legal basis in a number of areas. You already have a law house on prohibitive zones. One also has the opportunity to use other tools, such as date-driving, environmental differentiation, reducing car use as such, and I think it is important to focus on that in this case. But with the case that is being dealt with today, the municipalities get the means that they want. And then I get to be the one who -- even on behalf of my party -- says what some people might not say, but that I think some are actually concerned about, and it's that reducing the common use of cars in cities is very important, and that bringing down the general use of cars and getting a transition to more public transport is very important. But looking completely blind to the use of diesel cars can in some context become too monotonous. I agree that on some of the worst days in a winter period of acute air pollution, it is important, but in general I think it is important that we look at car use as such, not just at the use of diesel cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e873	We are following up today the Stortingen's unanimous decision of 15 March 2015. It was a decision in a series of decisions that Stortinget has taken, which is about air pollution, and which is about environmental action, where the Stortinget felt very clear that the government did not follow up the way we had expected. This was the decision on emission requirements for taxis, to which the government first refused, but on which the government parties on the Stortinget were constructive and joined. There was a question that was debated last week in the Questionnaire a few weeks ago, that we should have zero emissions in public transport in 2025, where the Council of State replied that it really didn't seem like he was the best way to control this. This was the question of suspended particulate matter, a proposal from the Green Party on updating knowledge and introducing new limit values. There it was that it was only when the Stortinget dealt with the matter, over a year after this was known and recommended by both the Vegvesen and the environmental impact, that one came on the track from the government and said that look here we are going one step – not two steps, but one step in the right direction. So that's the way it is. We have also had a government council, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, which has clearly stated that he believes that the cities have had all the tools they needed to do something about air pollution, but where his own government parties in Stortinget disagreed with him and thought it was necessary that the cities should have more instruments. That's why we've also got to the majority that we have. I can add that the representatives from the government parties in Oslo and Bergen before the last election thought they did not have enough tools. We have a government council that tends to deliver criticisms to the previous government because we made changes to the car charges that helped to increase this country. He rarely mentions that we were involved in doing something with the things that led to the dielandel going down again, and he hasn't even during the period he's been sitting, promoted a single new proposal to reduce the dielandel. He has been pushed to that by the opposition parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. But this summary aside – I would like to ask the Council of State to answer a question: We received from the Council of State a letter dated 22 December last year addressed to the major cities. It was quite elucidating that there were some instruments not known to the big cities and that the big cities could partly use on their own – as the chairman of the committee, Ola Elvesuen, was concerned with the issue of low-emission zones, I kept saying ‘prohibition zones’, for driving some vehicles – but also a number of things about tolls, which could be applied to the state. And by that letter I would actually say that Ketil Solvik-Olsen was in many ways right in that there were instruments that the cities had. It was just that no one had informed them, that they were not familiar with it, and that there were actually some complications there as well. But it is true that the following is the case: Section 27 of the Road Act gives the right to introduce road financing tolls. Section 7a of the Road Traffic Act provides for the possibility of driving pricing. I read from the letters of the Council of State: ‘The aim of cycling is traffic management with a view to reducing local transport and environmental problems. The tariff system of a circadian pricing system can be very flexible within 24 hours and according to the environmental characteristics of the vehicles.’» [[...]] Right these days, negotiations are taking place on Oslopackak 3. It is a toll contract under Section 27 of the Road Act and is about financing a number of collective and road projects and the operation of public transport. Therefore, I ask the Council of State: If one of the municipalities in Akershus or Oslo would apply for permission to establish its own bombing, or own bombing sections under Section 7a of the Road Traffic Act, where the aim is to reduce the local environmental problems, can the Council say that they can expect to be supported, if this was well established and well justified in order to secure the air for the population? Can they count on rapid treatment, and can they expect to support such an application? I will address the suggestions we have in the matter, if they have not been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e893	They're not taken up, no. Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e898	This is an important debate. I don't feel that there's anyone who disagrees that we're going to improve the air quality in cities, even though some red parties are trying to give the impression. What we might disagree about, on the other hand, is what kind of instruments are actually giving us the results. That, I think, is the basis for a lot of discussion. I am proud that in the last 30 months the government and the majority from which we have supported the Stortinget, the Left and Christian People's Party have increased the appropriations for the railways by over 50 pst. There are over 100 more train departures from Oslo S each day compared to when we took over. This gives people better options, because in all the situations we face, we must not forget that people's need for mobility does not disappear as a result of poor air. It is equally strong for everyone regardless of whether one is plagued by bad air itself, or whether one is otherwise healthy, but not getting to a shell. That is why I am also proud that a city like Oslo has experienced that the allocations to the public transport reward scheme are about fourfold after the government change, among other things. with strong contributions from the Left and Christian People's Party in the budgetary negotiations. Where Oslo got $180 million. SEK in total in 2012 and 2013, they have received SEK 715 million. SEK in 2014 and 2015 and SEK 430 million. kr only in 2016. It says something about a willingness to take the problem seriously, both to create mobility and to give people a better alternative to the car. In addition, we have taken several steps to facilitate shore-side electricity, several charging points, and we have removed the levy on biodiesel – many measures that I think we share with this bulk but which also the previous government has shrank, such as. free of charge biodiesel. All of this helps to provide a package that facilitates better air quality in cities. Then it is also the case, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås had in mind, that gripping from the previous government gave diesel cars an unusually large market share in the Norwegian market. So those who today believe that this is a problem are also those who have been involved and contributed to the problem. Diesel cars had a market share of 75,7 pst in 2011. In 2015, the market share was 40.8 pst. I am recording that the government is going to shut down for lack of action, but the market has in any case responded by almost halving the diesel car sales every year. Then I am concerned that, of course, on the part of the government, we are going to implement the decisions taken by the Stortinget. It is simply not right that some red politicians in this debate are trying to give the impression that nothing has happened since the March decision last year. We have just met with the local municipalities to hear what they want in such a low-carbon zone debate. That meeting was planned before the summer, so it was postponed to just after the summer, but due to the election campaign it was postponed to after the election, and as a result of new regimes in some of the cities, the meeting did not take place until we came out in November. I think it was sad that it took so long to implement, but the explanation is simply that we had to have those who are going to be in charge of the cities, in those discussions. But we sent a mission to the Road Directorate in line with what the Storting had decided. We have now received answers from the Road Directorate, and we are going to send a prescription to the hearing, so there is no attempt at training – things take time when you go through all democratic institutions. Then it is important that, when we are going to implement this, we ensure that the municipalities that introduce such zones can also demonstrate that the problem exists, that it comes from car traffic, and that we therefore solve the problems by doing such things. It is also important that municipalities look at other issues that may be important. It could be ports, it could be something as simple as stoves. A stove in a clean wood stove emits as much local pollution as a new diesel car that runs for 80-90 km per hour. That's why there's a lot of grip you have to take here, and not just look at the road traffic itself. So it's also a little bit interesting to remember the history here. In fact, the proposal on low-emission zones was presented by the Road Directorate as early as 2008 and scrapped by the red-green government. On 1 October 2012, the Road Directorate again presented proposals for low-emission zones, and the next day it was again crushed by the red-green government. So it's not like we've come up with things that have been in our drawer – we've come up with things that have been thrown into the trash bin. There is something else, and therefore it is very interesting to hear from the red-green parties who now believe that this is very urgent: why did they throw all the suggestions into the trash bin when they themselves crashed? One of the explanations may be that this would be administratively difficult to implement, and the municipalities must also take on board that before making such a claim, they must also be able to demonstrate how it is to be implemented. It's not impossible, but it requires a sticker to be good legs, and I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e920	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e923	I am particularly pleased that we have a unanimous position here today and will make an important decision. It is also nice that the Council of State and the Ministry have been involved in cooperation with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is the way the setting is unanimous almost all the way. The Council of State and the Ministry shall initiate processes with the major cities, and there is one point in the setting where not all of the lots are present. This does not mean that other parties are against, but I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of the part of the setting that is about low-emission zones, for example. in Oslo, could also include highways. Because it is clear that, for example: through Oslo, it is very difficult to imagine an effect of low-emission zones if one cannot also include any of the national roads that go close through residential areas. There the majority of the committee, including the Left and Christian People's Party, say that national roads must be included, that they are open to it. I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e930	I don't think it's natural that I consider those who haven't been on that note, but I've previously said that when such assessments are to be made, whether or not national roads are to be involved, it's natural that there will be a purely professional assessment from the local road network. And I'm standing by. It should not be a political assessment of whether one is in favour or against, but one should look at it on the part of the Road Administration: Does this have an effect or not? On the same basis, municipalities – before introducing it – should also be able to demonstrate that the cars are responsible for a substantial part of the problem, and therefore, if you have such a zone, you will be able to solve a substantial part of the problem. There is no one who serves to introduce measures that do not have an effect. So I also think it is very good that the representative of Bohemia has been concerned about this problem. On the other hand, I think the approach that the Labour Party has had in the debate is a little strange when you know that it was the Labour Party government that scolded this a few years ago, and that is now calling for action, which they themselves did not show in the previous eight years. This suggests that there are many people who have benefited from the fact that there has been a change of government here, not least people who need better air.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e937	I thank you for your answer. I see it as absolutely opening up to the Council of State that national roads should also be considered in these processes with regard to the design of the low-emission zones in individual cities, and that is good. I have a question, which is also linked to the comment of the majority of the Committee, but not all of the lots, and that is the comment that mentions who will benefit from the income from the low-emission zones – the levy scheme or the fee scheme. It is clear that those revenues compensate for local pollution, and then there is something different than what is usual toll financing, which is earmarked for transport development, road projects, etc. The same majority of the Committee says that the revenue from fees and levies in the low-emission zone should initially be allocated to the municipalities. Then, of course, there is a reservation that this should go for environmental purposes, etc. I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of that point too, because you're going into important processes here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e944	The law here is quite clear: there are two different forms of toll financing. One is to finance a concrete measure, such as: a road or a bridge. Once it has been paid down, the tolls shall be removed. Then in some urban areas it has been said that you should have bombings based on other things, such as: also spends the money on the operation of public transport. I think it's natural that if you put in place these kinds of schemes where you charge, the aim here is to get fewer people to drive a car to reduce the problems. But those revenues will naturally go to the same purposes as you normally have for a bombing, namely to repair roads and collective solutions, just to make traffic flow better. It should not be an incentive for municipalities to see that it is a way of taxing drivers at their own discretion to use the money for a completely different purpose than the traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e949	Most of the speakers have abandoned party politics in this matter and expressed their satisfaction at the fact that a majority have gathered behind the proposal for a representative. I still notice that the Council of State cannot show the same expanse, at least as I see it, and refers to what the predecessor meant in 2012. But it's been four years since that time. It may not be so strange since the decision that you are making today, which means that today the Storting is doing the job that the Council of State was instructed last March by the same big deal to do. A government council that likes to represent itself as a force of action, based in its letter of reply primarily on the idea of being caught by the dwindling and unnumbered retention of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e954	I see that the representative Rommetveit has a pre-written line. I have already responded to this in my article by referring to the timeline that went from when Stortinget made its decision to the meetings we had with the municipalities. Then we had an order for the Road Directorate, and now we've got an answer to it. So I think you should listen to what I said in the post. I fully agree that the vast majority of those who have made contributions here today – especially the tribute of Rasmus Hansson, who I do not always agree with in debates, but who I think have been able to rise above party politics – have had good speeches. The two people I registered were the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. That is also why I always referred to 'the red politicians', not 'the red-green politicians'. I think it is good that we have a decision made. I point out that there are major challenges for the municipalities when it comes to implementing this, but that is something they have wanted. I also want to remind you that the decision has been made by the Workers' Party, and if the Workers' Party does not like to be reminded of it, it is really the sadst thing for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e965	I share the many years of irritation of the Council of State over the red-green government, but on a day when everyone agrees, I have learned that you should not be long-term either. So today it's positive that we have an agreement on these proposals. But to the very point: it is clear that through several proposals cities now have all the tools they really need, and it is now their responsibility for how to put together the instruments, so that one achieves what one wants, while retaining the activities of the central parts of cities. But this interaction still needs to be there, both on the professional and on what are the highways of the cities. My question then goes to the temporary prohibitive zones on the most polluted days in winter: will the Council of State also allow it to be included on a purely professional basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e972	In this area, which is about air quality, I have stated several times that I believe that we should not conduct party politics here. Here we have to make sure that professionals are allowed to take action if local politicians want to. But then there must be an assessment that it actually has an effect. If the Vegvesen believes that involving the highways gives a good effect, I will not oppose it. But we know that the Vegvesen under the previous government said no to introduce this. The previous government accepted it. That's where the complexity of this comes in. If you make a picture arrangement in Oslo today where you do not have an automatic check of the cars, that means that if you want to complete this 100 pst., you really have to stop all the cars at the county border. One must also check all cars that stand in Oslo – will it be driven at any time? There are many of those who live within Call 1, Call 2 or Call 3, who have diesel cars today. How are you going to make sure that this happens? One solves no problem if a make a crazy queue on E6 and E18, north, south, east and west of Oslo, as a result of all cars being stopped. Then you just move the pollution, and we don't deserve that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e977	It's absolutely right that I'm not very fussy about the council. I've tried harshly to the council before, but I don't feel like I'm getting a lot of roughness back, so I've stopped it. I spent a minute of my post asking a specific question that the Council of State did not answer. That was the very specific question about the Oslopack 3 negotiations. Now they're in progress. Negotiations under the Road Traffic Act are about financing the road system that is here. But what I asked about was the clarification and clarification that came as new information to me, and which I was pleased that the Council of State came with December 22, 2015, and that is: If Oslo municipality, Bærum, Asker or other Akershus municipalities were to apply for traffic regulation in order to reduce local traffic congestion and environmental problems under Section 7a of the Road Traffic Act, would they receive rapid treatment, and would the Council of State initially be positive to such an application?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e984	I think everyone knows that it is natural that I do not pre-shoot either Oslopack 3 negotiations or hypothetical requests for applications. But of course, such a matter will be dealt with as quickly as possible and with real seriousness. At the same time, one of the municipalities must be able to point out that it is actually car traffic that creates the environmental challenges that exist. I think it's a little weird, when you've always talked about it being Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim's center that have the problems, that one here suddenly starts taking up hypothetical cases about smaller places around. Then it seems that the motivation for this is quite different from what was at least my goal: to improve the air quality where there are many people living, and where there is a lot of traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e990	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e995	I am very happy on behalf of all those who are struggling with air pollution in the cities today, for the decision to be made. I thank the Committee on the Environment and Energy for working so well on this, and I particularly thank the rapporteur for a good job. In particular, I would like to thank the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, who have actively followed up here in the Stortinget what they have meant where I know best about them, in Oslo City Council, which I had the hope of working on this bill, and I think it is very real that you follow up that way. So they're definitely going to have to pay for it from here. There's one point I would like to underline, and that's that in the case of NO2, is 80-90 pst. the emissions are mainly related to the volume of car traffic and not so much to whether it is winter, spring or summer. For example, on April 12, 13 and 14, on very sunny, beautiful almost summer days in Oslo, with 10-12 degrees of heat in the middle of the day – the sky was ready – it was red due to NO2 in Oslo. You can look up in the sky and wonder why it's red. Well, it's an almost invisible contamination, and it's going to be very high if the air gets yellow. This is related to stationary air and related to the temperature conditions in the upper air layers versus the lower air layers, but it is mainly related to the volume of car traffic, and it can therefore apply throughout the year. I just want to warn you a little bit about saying that it's only in winter, that this must be ready for winter, as you also say in the positioning of the Energy and Environment Committee. I think it should get in place as soon as possible, because NO2 is a problem anytime, except exactly, maybe, in the common holiday. And it's NO2 that's mentioned in the setting, and the National Audit Service also warns that the exceedances have increased and not decreased in recent years because of the amount of diesel traffic in particular. I'd like to underline it. So there's one point that I want to mention when Ola Elvestuen says that now we're almost on target with all the tools. There's one more tool that we have to make sure that we also get in place as soon as it's possible. It is a legal framework for environmentally differentiated tolls. However, it can help – and it helps a lot – to get the notes or fees, prepaid fees in the low-emission zones, because those fees can also be set up so that when you read them up against the Motor Vehicle Register, you can at least distinguish some main types of car categories from the amount of the fee. With this decision today on low-emission zones, pre-paid fees, when we too are very far in being able to take account of the emissions of the individual car.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1023	There are many aspects to this matter that you could comment on. One point that is not mentioned, which I think can mean quite a bit for the pollution in cities, is the lack of feasibility. There is no doubt that cars that are in line are in themselves more polluting than cars that you can drive on the road and that come out. I would also point out that in all such cases where you have to raise the fee to achieve a goal, there is another side to it, and that's the industry side. We're all interested in facilitating business opportunities to run this country, and having adventurism on our roads is important to business. There is no doubt that we all want work trips to be carried out collectively, by bicycle or by foot. There is no doubt that we want the cars to be emission-friendly – and emission-free. We have to remember that it will still be the way that freight will be done on wheels. the bus will continue to be the most important means of public transport in cities, at least in the vast majority of cities. Even in Oslo, the bus is a larger carrier than tram and tram. It will still be that even from work, the private car will be an important element of our society. Norway is like this, we're not connected to driving collectively at all ends and shapes. So what's important is that we get to do the other measures. It has to be rational to drive collectively; it has to be smart planning that reduces the total transport demand, both of commercial transport and of labour transport. One must also be aware that the major cities have their own challenges, but one must also take into account the neighbouring municipality, one must have a system of redeployment in bad days. You cannot block E6 and E18 with charges if the transport is due. You have to do this in a way that makes it possible to drive around. If you don't have it in mind, the problems will be pushed out on the bad county road networks and municipal road networks of neighbouring municipalities. Both Bergen and Oslo have opportunities already today, but E6 and E18 through Oslo are still the main road for nutrient transport from north to south and from east to west. You have to keep that in mind. Individual municipalities may not be able to charge these transport years on their own merits. Of course, I share the view that we now have a network of instruments for the municipalities that enable them to control this – insofar as they need to – in a rational way, but we also need to be able to see the whole. Cooperation between municipalities, state and state is important when using such instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1034	I have written what I am going to say, in advance, because I thought it was the best thing. The size decision is now important when local authorities are now able to create low-emission zones. This is a grip that a number of cities have asked for Size to open. As a representative from Hordaland, I am pleased that the City Council in Bergen, which consists of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party, now has yet another tool to deal with the problems of local pollution. Everyone who has been in Bergen in the days of high air pollution understands the seriousness of the situation, and so it is in several other cities. As a big representative, I am much of my time here in Oslo, and it's a capital where the problems are perhaps the biggest. We as the populace of the Storting must make sure that the commies have room for action to take the decisions that they themselves think are necessary to ensure the health and well-being of the inhabitants. Today's decision is only one of several tools that municipalities can use for periods of high air pollution, but it is equally important because the municipalities themselves know where the shoe is pressing, and they themselves have asked for this possibility. I am also pleased that there is a broad majority behind the proposal for a representative. I would particularly like to thank a number of the Transport and Communications Committee, which consists of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Centre Party and the Labour Party, which, in the 2016 budget setting, gathered in this matter and called for further progress from the government. The tool we are giving to the municipalities today could certainly have been made available before. However, I feel that the experience from the latest couple-three winters has shown us that we have an acute problem that the municipalities have to be able to handle. When a group of stalls gather behind the representative proposal, it shows that the Storting, when necessary, puts away tactics and games. I should therefore not like to remind you any more of why the proposal for a representative was tabled, but I am glad that the proposal is now being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1051	As a representative from Bergen and with a background as chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Urban Development, I can confirm that it has been almost ten years since Bergen raised this issue, and I am very pleased that we are now gathering all the cities behind the proposal of the Workers' Party and also the entire Stortinget behind what is now being adopted. The mountain is a city between seven mountains, and it makes that when there is standing air, the air is still, but it is also a city where most live between the mountains and not on the mountains. It's also a city where E39 goes straight through, and we know that it's challenging to create low-carbon zones where we're both going to make sure people get to work, to school, and to provide good information to the people. So combining low-carbon zones with intelligent traffic systems is going to be crucial, so we're going to be able to get a city like Bergen to work, which has its nature around it with the constraints that it gives per day. So I want to raise this with effect. It is quite right, as the Council of State is concerned, that we should ensure that when we first take such drastic action, we must know that it has effect. But those who know best are the representatives of the cities. That's why I want to raise that side of the proposal that we give the municipal politicians the tool that they've been asking for so long, and that they need to assess what's best for their city and from their point of view. I am a little uncertain about how we will implement it in Bergen, but at least I know that they are very happy that they have received it and have already started the work. They also have a challenge in terms of emissions from dwellings, and Bergen has spent many years in grants to replace furnaces. But then it turned out that in the poorest districts, maybe where there's the most emissions, there are rental homes. This means that those who own the dwelling are not interested in taking that investment, so there are also challenges that the Storting might need to address. But then I have a happy message in the end, and that's what gives effect. As a local politician, I have fought against parts of the Right, and at least large parts of the Progress Party, for the introduction of a rush-time charge, and when it is introduced, it turns out that traffic flows, both the traffic of homes and the transport of goods, and it is only the Sotra connection that remains where there is always traffic. So I think it's important that we all be a little humble in relation to the proposals we're fighting for, and the suggestions we're getting through.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1064	There are many who have the credit for the proposal. I record that it is with a bourgeois majority on the Stortinget that it is actually adopted and implemented. But what is important about this matter is that now this debate is being moved down to the city councils, because now it is about how to introduce these low-carbon zones. What is important is that not only does it have to be asked whether or not the polluter pays, but what effect it has on reducing emissions, both local and greenhouse gas emissions. Then we have to separate the discussion, because that's two. One relates to the acute contamination that you get a few days in winter. Then you have to have drastic measures. We now have those homes. We have also received a confirmation from the Council of State that there is only a technical assessment by the State Road Administration of whether they are included. Now you have possibilities here. The second issue we have, where much better instruments are now being given, concerns the long-term, systematic reduction of emissions in big cities. I agree with Nils Aage Igstad that this is about doing the right thing. You also have to do it in a way that brings business with you. I think it's wise of the big cities to look at how you can agree on the time perspective you want to bring in the changes. We have some good examples, not least from Oslo. We demanded fossil-free public transport from 2020 – it was adopted in 2010. One has had a ten-year period in which to prepare, and it's going to be completed. It's not exactly in place, because the law houses are not there. We wanted to introduce environmental requirements and zero emissions requirements in the taxi industry – a deadline was set for 2022. They're doing fine. I believe that you have to do exactly the same when it comes to transporting goods. You'll find a time when it's going to be in place, with only zero-emission solutions going into the center. The industry is able to switch to, and you can get to a predictable development that produces results. Now cities have a great opportunity both to bring local pollution under control and to reinforce long-term efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Cities have yet another means of realising this trend, both in Norway and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1079	I very much agree with the last time that Ola Elvestuen said. If, in good time, we could say from this house and from the government where we want to go in two years, in five years, and give time to change for business and for other players – for the automotive industry, for the gas station industry – it would have been a happiness to ensure that business becomes more green. The problem now, in my opinion, is that we have too short-term policies. So it's the bulk of the population that's going to have to take the lead, instead of the government doing it, in these important things. But it's likely to turn around. I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation. It's been a good collaboration. On this issue of air quality, I think we are cooperating well in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. My criticism has been about the government's ability and willingness to follow this up. I am pleased that the Council of State at Stortinget finally admits that he has not introduced any new policy to reduce local emissions from cars, but that this is something that comes from the policy of the old, red-green government, where we charge local pollution more strongly in the one-off charge, and had an electric car policy that contributed to driving through the electric car change that has led to a decline. I want to say that the debate on diesel has also contributed to fewer now buying it in cities. The council said people should be happy that we've got a new government to take care of air quality. But then I want to grab hold of what Tina Bru mentioned. She pointed to the EFTA Court case in which we were convicted of exceedances in terms of air quality. In fact, emissions up to 2012, emissions in the red-green period, but the main thing, and the reason why we were convicted, was that the government was unable to provide an action plan on how to reduce emissions from the largest cities. We have a decision on the part of the Stortinget that the government should provide an action plan for better air quality. If this is really something that the Council of State and the government are burning to do something about, then the Council of State may be able to tell us when the action plan for better air quality will be presented. So far we don't have it clear to ourselves. Then I say that the flow in the cities must be all, most importantly, and points to E6 and E18, which goes through Oslo. I believe that people's, citizens', health must be the first thing we take into account. If we're going to get business going through, we have to make sure that those who don't have to drive, just stay away from people's health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1096	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1110	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1117	As the President just referred to, we are now going to deal with document 8:47, on measures for decent working life and against social dumping. In the handling of the case and in the document, as is available, there is a lot of agreement to describe the challenges that social dumping and crime at work are for society. We still see examples of people being underpaid, being exploited, and being connected to crime in our society. It undermines serious working life. For many years we have had a number of examples, in the agricultural industry, in the construction sector, in the cleaning industry, in hotels and restaurants etc., and as I said, it is increasingly linked to crime. I will not assume to be adequate for the majority of the committee. I expect that the representative Heggelund, who will come after me, will argue for the majority's view, but I will argue why, on the part of the minority, we have a number of proposals for action that we believe – although they are not exhaustive – could be the right steps in the fight against social dumping. My assessment is that with regard to this matter, the government is incredibly passive, and that it is clear from the letter of reply received from the Council of State to the present proposal. In the case of public tenders, the Government states: ‘The government will await further legislative changes in this area.’ So here we are in a situation where Norwegian municipalities, mentioned by e.g. In fact, the ski, the Telemark County Municipality and successively a number of other municipalities and county municipalities in Norway, are moving ahead in order to put in place measures to prevent serious operators from being competing with unprofessionals. To another proposal, the government says that concrete changes to the rules are not appropriate now, and to the manning industry, that one will not be in favour of changes now, but that developments will be followed. We believe that action is needed now, that there is a need for action now, and that it is urgent. We believe that some of the measures the government has taken so far have actually gone a long way. While in power, the government has abolished the principle of non-discrimination attached to the agency directive. It has abolished the collective court of appeal, which was an opportunity for serious trade unions and trade unions to take up social dumping and to get it revealed and convicted, and it has gone in to increase access to temporary employment, even if it is not a temporary job. The sum of this is that the measures against social dumping have been weakened. So the government – and they also refer to it in the letter of reply – has had a meeting with the parties, which has driven the government to put in place some measures against social dumping. But the experience we have, year after year, month after month, is that we still get new examples of new paths, for example. by employing people in so-called permanent employment without being paid between assignments, which means that we still need new measures to meet developments. The previous government, often referred to by the current government in this room, created three action plans against social dumping. We know that they worked, but at the same time we know that new ways were found to avoid laws and regulations. Then we are in a situation where we still need to make new proposals, in addition to the minority that are now presenting, to meet a situation where serious employers are being uncompetitive. This one of the things that helps us to increase our differences in society, because the unprofessional part of business also pushes the wages of the serious actors in the same industries and therefore has to be stopped. That's why we need action now. That is why I am addressing the twelve proposals included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1139	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1142	I would like to thank the representatives of the Socialist Left Party. They are travelling and important debate. This is a debate we cannot give up on, a debate in which we must be on-going. In connection with these proposals, I refer to the letter of reply from the Council of State and we support the very thorough assessments made there. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to boast to the previous government. Like the government we have now, it raised these questions and promoted more good proposals. I heard that Andersen's representative from the Workers' Party was not as fluent with this government as I am with his government, but that's how the Workers' Party is – they can't accept recordings from others, they always know for themselves. But as long as we representatives from other parties know what the truth is in these questions, it's not that dangerous. Yesterday was also an important day in the fight against labour-related crime, when the Council of State opened a new co-located centre against labour-related crime in Trondheim. This issue is serious. Through generations we have jointly built up a safe, predictable and good working life. Nine out of ten Northmen thrive at work. We do not accept threats to this working life. We do not accept that anyone will undermine this working life. We do not accept that anyone will make our common working life their own – with their own rules of play, or a lack of rules of play – with working conditions that do not belong anywhere. We know that the crime of working life and social dumping are more than wages, and the stories we hear about unacceptable pay and working conditions should make it tear in our souls. The fight against crime at work is, of course, about what kind of work we want, what structures we want to dominate, but above all, it is about the individual person, the individual worker affected, and the families affected. The challenge needs to be addressed with strong measures. At the same time, this is a debate that is too important for party political polarisations to win simple political points. When there is so much agreement on the analysis of the problem and on the instruments to be used, I think the lookup in the class struggle today might have been unnecessary, although it was good to see that the comments were so well referred to in a newspaper lookup – it is not that often we see. Together, we need to find good solutions, so that work-life crime is not only something we are concerned about in words, but also in action. The government takes this problem very seriously. Together with the parties, the government has developed a strategy against the crime of working life. It was well received and contains a number of important leads and actions. At every crossroad, we have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate. It is important to enable them to continue active supervisory and control activities. The trade union movement also has an important role to play. It is with concern that we have seen a falling organizational degree over many years. But tripartite cooperation is unique in the struggle for our common working life. That is why we continue the trade union deduction, and that in cooperation with the organisations we have an extra effort in sectors with a high risk of unprofessional work to inform about the benefits of organizing. Good dialogue and good cooperation between agencies are also important. This is why the government has tripled its efforts with coordination and coordination. All of these elements are important elements, but it's when it happens together that the force is greater. The fight against the crime of working life must be interdisciplinary, cross-cultural and cross-political, and I am pleased that I represent a party that wants to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1168	I want to start by thanking the representatives from SV for promoting the proposal we are now examining. They are concerned with the same thing that we are all concerned about, namely that all Norwegian workers should be treated decently and correctly. I would also like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and I am pleased that the Committee is united on the intentions of a decent working life, although we may disagree on some of the instruments and instruments that are most effective. At the same time, I have to take the liberty of noting that the proposal is primarily a marker proposal from SV. SV has been in government for eight years. Much of what they claim has grown in that case has grown on their guard. Several of the studies referred to in the proposal take into account the years of self-government. Let me also show that the years in which SV was in government were years of strong growth in public budgets. It was good times in Norway, but the need for change in the labour and business world was not seen. But if we look at the big picture, we see that the working life has changed over the last decades. We have gone from a traditional industrial society to a more highly skilled and technological society. Changes have also been significant for employees. Some groups have not been able to change and are struggling to keep working, and more, especially younger, are struggling to get to work. Then I am glad that we made the changes to the Working Environment Act, so that we reduced the threshold for entering the labour market and created a more flexible working life, adapted to more people and needs than the previous Work Environment Act provided. Then, too, unemployment that we have had in parts of Europe has given Norway opportunities and challenges. Most of the immigrants who have come here have contributed positively. They have contributed their skills and labour in industries and businesses that have needed them. It's a win-win situation. I would also like to be clear that when Immigrants lose their jobs now that unemployment has increased in recent times, it should be a matter of course that you return, as you are no longer a real migrant worker if you cannot find a new job in Norway. At the same time, it is important to remember that unfortunately some employers are tempted to make laws and regulations and in some cases actively seek to circumvent them. That is what we need to put an end to – most importantly for individual workers, but not least for the sake of fair competition in the market. Some of the things that may have surprised some people are that employers who break the law are more likely to find them in the public sector than in the private sector. It's enough to mention the massive breaches of the Work Environment Act in Trondheim, where we had horror examples like a temporary worker working an average of 74 hours a week for 15 consecutive weeks. This happened under municipal law. It shows the importance of having a broad look when we're going to get limited and preferably stopped this. Work and health are like hand in hand. Therefore, prevention, inclusion, working environment and co-destination must be the focus of a future-oriented working life. It affects us in the rest of our lives, in the family and in leisure, and not least affects the individual. One of the most important factors in getting to this work life is that it is flexible, with good control mechanisms. Then I am glad that this government has strengthened the Labour Inspectorate, so that we can better discover the crime of working life and unprofessional employers, as we can see. But it is not only the Labour Inspectorate that is the key here – it is the cooperation between the Labour Inspectorate, Nav, UDI and the police. I think that's the way we should go, and that's also the way the government has worked, with great luck. Recently, I had a meeting with well and special drillers, a group under the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs. They were clear that there are major challenges with unprofessional actors and that they are growing. But when most of the tenders they have come from the public sector, it shows that we have a job to do in the areas we run directly by ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1189	I would also like to start by thanking the proposers for putting a very important issue on the agenda. This is a theme that the Storting comes back to many times, and it's very good. Although the overall labour market is tidy and good and mainly works very well — most people do well at work — it is known that social dumping and unprofessional actors are unfortunately also part of that market. For the Christian People's Party, through the budgetary negotiations, through the drafts of representatives – it was well discussed in the Financial Committee – and also in other contexts, we have been concerned with measures that can ensure decent working life and combat social dumping and unprofessional actors. Let me stress — it is also stated in the remarks — that the action plan that the government has drawn up against the crime of working life is very good. It's got good criticism, and I think that's very good. Through the budget conciliation last autumn, we negotiated that even more work-life crime centres were to be built, and yesterday – I guess that was Heggelund who said – the fifth was opened in Trondheim. In any case, we have seen the good effect of those centres and that there is probably a need for even more of them to improve cooperation to combat the unprofessional players on the market. This government and the majority parties have also made a great effort to combat trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is a barrier to social dumping, at least there are cases where it goes from social dumping to simply being convicted of trafficking in human beings. This is why several measures have been put in place on the judicial side which will also have a positive impact on the fight against unprofessional enterprises. We're not in the committee, so I'm going to take a quick look at the proposals we want to support. We are going to support proposals 1 and 2. They are about tightening public procurement requirements. We believe it is important that the public should lead by example. There are many cases where they do it today. Proposal 1 refers to the Telemarks model. One could also refer to Oslo, which has good practice, but as seen from the proposal drawn up by the minority in the Committee, one refers to the rules of seriousness presented by Diffi, KS, BNL and the Joint Confederation. These are guidelines developed by the social partners, and therefore I think it is important – when I read the Council of State's replies, I see no very strong objections, perhaps one believes that it should resolve itself – that one continues the pressure that this work must continue, in all municipalities and in the public sector, so that one can have the best possible procurement guidelines. We think that's important. Proposal 2 introduces joint and several liability for public builders. We support that, too. Although not so much has been used since the introduction of joint and several liability in 2010, an evaluation by Fafo shows that the scheme has been discriminatory for the large entrepreneurs. Although it has not been used often, it has been effective where it has been used. Either the main contractor has paid, or the main contractor has pressed the subcontractor to pay. Many of the employers who were critical when it was introduced have now softened, according to Fafo. They also say that the majority of the leaders in construction now believe that joint and several liability prevents unprofessionalism. Today, it stops with the main contractor. The builder is not held responsible for the pay and employment of suppliers, which is why we believe that it can be linked to major contracts and public builders. That's exactly what the proposal is doing. When it is as good a experience as we see with the system, it speaks for enlargement. Nor do I see that the Council of State argues against it, but that further development of the rules must be done in close cooperation with the social partners. I fully agree with that, assuming that I will be, so we support it. The third proposal we want to support is proposal 8. It is a question of analysing ‘the possibility of prohibiting business operators who repeatedly seriously violate the Public Procurement Act’. I feel that the government agrees, but I want it figured out. That is exactly what the proposal is about, namely to have it investigated, and that is why we also support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1204	The centre party would like to thank SV for this proposal, which is incredibly important. But we should remember that the twelve proposals are no more than repair measures. The centre party is voting for them, but it is repair measures in relation to the change we are now seeing in the labour market as a result of the EEA agreement. Unfortunately, it is a proposal without analysis, and it is also only a request decision, which depends on the government's willingness and capacity for progress. I'll say that, because we see this as so serious that there must be a very clear analysis behind why we're there. It is the offer shock we have received in Norwegian working life as a result of EEA enlargements in 2004–2007, which has really accelerated the negative development, and it has changed the power relationship in working life in favour of those who are in a different tradition from the tradition of cohesion we have in Norway. The centre party has also promoted concrete legislative proposals where Stortinget has the necessary overview. We proposed to repeal Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act as regards the possibility of temporary employment through recruitment agencies. At that point, interesting information has been received since that treatment – this was voted down on 5 April 2016 – and it is in the Council's letter to me of 7 April this year. I asked about the repeal of the Working Environment Act § 14-12, second paragraph, would be a breach of Norway's obligations under the EEA Agreement. There, the Council of States shall have a propensity to speak directly in advance and to state quite clearly that such a suspension is not to be regarded as contrary to the EEA Agreement. It puts the debate in a new light, and I hope that the Workers' Party will take note of the answer and will be on a proposal later on, so that one changes the Working Environment Act at this important point. Otherwise, it is also proposed from SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre that «The government is asked to promote legislative proposals that clarify the concept of «permanent employee» in the Working Environment Act». It's important. The term ‘permanent employee’ has been used, but it is not defined, and it is important that we now get a clarification of what is contained in the concept of ‘permanent employment’, for example with regard to job breaks, working hours, wages and allowances. It is central that we get it done, and I am very happy that the Workers' Party also now joined in on such a proposal. It shows that we're coming forward in view of the gravity of the situation. With regard to the seriousness: this is something that political parties are not alone in. In particular, the public institutions are concerned, and the public institutions have provided a report on labour market crime in Norway, a situation description for 2014, in which both the Labour Inspectorate, the Criminal Service, Kripos, the Food Authority, Nav, the Foreign Affairs Police Unit, the Tax Office, the Customs Service, the Foreign Directorate and the Ecocrim – yes, there are probably not many more – really point this out through a quotation in the vote, where one points to the link between the free movement of labour and an increasingly demanding labour market to ensure that a follow-up to Norwegian law and the Norwegian rules of play. It is essential to have a clear analysis and the Central Party reserves the right to develop it each time. We see that the analysis reaches more and more groups, and that is essential in the discussion about this. Finally, lower organisational requirements are referred to, here there is a negative development. We try to meet it by keeping the union deduction, but it's the temporaryity, the increasing influx of people who are here for shorter periods, who contribute to the reduced degree of organisation. And then I want to make it clear that it's the system that's responsible for this, it's not the workers who work in Norway. I want to make it clear that when the majority stated by the Right is talking about that there are essentially tidy and decent working conditions in Norway, we know that this applies to over 50 pst. There's a formulation that I'd like to ask the majority to be careful about using, because it's going in the wrong direction. This is a big and growing issue. The location of the centre party is very clear on the side of the Society-Norges, not Market-Norges. Modernisation of the Labour Environment Act's meeting with reality's rawness is needed: a definition of permanent and temporary posts and the reduction of crew companies is part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1219	As a general rule, Norwegian working life is characterized by neat and decent conditions — fortunately. At the same time, we should not close our eyes to the fact that there are cellar rings in all industries that can be willing to break laws and regulations, and that there are those who may not go that far, but who are willing to make these rules to the extreme and hunt for dirt to get a competitive advantage. These unprofessional and, in part, illegal operators put workers at risk and put the serious companies at risk as they exploit unfair competitive advantages. For this reason, the fight for serious work life is an important struggle to take. If we're going to be able to win him, we need elected, serious corporations and employees working together. Nevertheless, a trend that the majority of the Committee rightly warns against is that migrant workers are blamed for the situation in some industries. Yes, foreign workers may be more vulnerable to the exploitation of unscrupulous operators, but the EEA Agreement provides enormous opportunities for both Norwegian and foreign workers to look for jobs elsewhere in Europe. It is an enormous asset for those who are in debt, for Europe and for Norway. In the boom period Norway has been in the last few years with an enormous need for labour, it has been a huge advantage to be able to recruit from a larger workforce. Now, when we're in more troubled waters, we see that the rate of immigration has fallen radically. The system works, people go where there are workplaces and opportunities. In recent years, government and growth have implemented a number of measures to counter exploitation and poor employment conditions. The government has developed a strategy against the crime of working life in cooperation with the parties, which has been very well opposed. One also has a partnership with the employment organisations to increase the level of organisation in particular outsourced industries. Furthermore, industry programmes that have started up in the outdoor and transport sectors have been important. And despite the fact that the resistance to statutory minimum wage rates has traditionally been great both in the Stortinget and Norway, we see that general government decisions are spreading in more and more industries, which most of us are some if have been necessary and positive. Unfortunately, the rules and laws are small without being actively followed up and enforced. For this reason, the Left is particularly pleased that by every single state budget and budgetary settlement, we have agreed to increase the work force. It has also had a tangible effect by escalating the number of supervision. So I think there might be a need for additional regulations to get a more decent and serious working life, especially in some industries. However, I do not believe that the measures proposed by the minority in Document 8 are particularly accurate, and at least not specifically thought out. Some of these proposals, such as: to increase the trade union deduction, has major budgetary implications and is best at home in that discussion, not in a Document 8 proposal. Other proposals are potentially very intrusive, such as the coercion of businesses or the imposition of a ban on nutrition for individuals. One would like to suggest new and interventional measures, but it is at least to be expected that the proposers argue for them. The notes from the red-green minority are, however, less eye-catchingly thin reading. There is some humiliating resistance to the changes in the work environment law that we made a year ago, and the general dissatisfaction with the government, from the Senter party, is a grievances against the EEA Agreement, and then finally, write that on this background, one makes the twelve proposals, which are neither specifically mentioned nor justified in the comments. Nor are the comments from the department answered or mentioned. It's okay enough that one is in opposition. The left is also in opposition, but we're taking at least the measure of keeping a certain seriousness in what we're proposing in this room, and the reason why we think it's necessary to make major interventions and changes when we're proposing them. So on that background, the Left will vote against the proposals of the minority. The fight against exploitation and unfair labour conditions is important, and he will continue, and we will continue the good work of constantly improving our legislation. But then it takes careful preparation and thoughtful suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1238	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for his excellent work. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the opening of a new centre for the crime of working life in Trondheim yesterday. That's an important bet. Therefore, SV proposed in our alternative state budget to increase the funds to establish more centres. I find it strange that the parties to the Government and the Left today express that they will vote for proposals that will just prevent unprofessional relations and combat crime in the workplace. The Telemarks model, proposed by SV to be used as a basis for public procurement, has been created precisely because of unacceptable and unacceptable conditions. In the ski there were serious violations of pay and working conditions on a construction site under municipal law. Then the municipality had two choices: it was either to stand powerless as a passive spectator of what public funds were used for, or to take action by putting power behind the demand, the power one has by being a buyer. The municipality of Skien chose the last, and thus developed the Skiens model against social dumping, an efficient and reworked model worked out by the municipality, the Joint Confederation and the NHO. A good set of criteria has since been further developed into the Telemarks model, and the broad cross-political basis and the emergence of a common set of requirements for those competing for public service missions is impressive. The model is so good and reworked that it has spread to many municipalities and county municipalities, and SV works to ensure that it continues to work. In the case we are dealing with today, there is a great deal of agreement on the problem description: that social dumping is a problem, that unprofessionalism must be combated, and that it must be severely reduced to work-life crime. Then I think it's very special that you see the problem and admit it, but still don't want to work out solutions that work. I had not expected full penetration or support for all the proposals we are going to vote on today, but I had hoped that at least we could manage to make some demands for the use of public funds and demands for public acquisitions, look at the Telemarks model and its effects and its effects and the effects we could hope it would provide. Because there is a difference between setting requirements and recommending something. In order to promote serious relationships, we have to tell the outside world that that's what we want, that's what we're defending, that's actually what we're favouring. The most important thing in the Telemarks model is, in my view, requirements for skilled workers, requirements for apprentices and requirements for permanent employment. It provides a serious basis, and it opens up unprofessional actors. I think it is particularly important that, at a time of increasing social dumping and with increasing unemployment, we should look at public budget missions going out of the country rather than having Norwegian companies that have skilled workers and deliver quality, who have apprentices and bets on the future of the trade. The many revelations of unprofessional relations and social dumping in public budgets, on public construction sites, could be met with a strong and united bomb today. Unfortunately, this does not happen. Saving a few dollars in a public budget can be very expensive if the Norwegian model of working life is the price for it. I hope that the government parties and the Left want to look at the experiences of the Telemarks model and the municipalities and county municipalities that have actually implemented it, and also look at the rejections that have been given to those who no longer have the opportunity to participate in the competition. And then I hope it is possible to re-examine this debate with fresh eyes and with experience-based reasoning, rather than polarization, to which we are witnessing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1257	I would first like to thank the proposers for raising an important topic. Although the majority of Norwegian working life is characterised by neat and decent conditions, there are significant challenges to unprofessional employment and illegal activities in some industries. Feedback from control practices suggests that crime is better organised than in the past. Etats report more systematic, better planned and more professional offences than before. The government has taken up the challenges. The social authorities and social partners have set in motion broad cooperation against crime at work. The government’s strategy against crime at work is a foundation for this work, and as part of the follow-up to the strategy, the Prime Minister held the summit on labour crime in 2015 and in January this year. At the Prime Minister's summit there was, among other things: stressed the importance of co-operation between the departments. A total of five co-located units are now established around the country, where the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav, the police and the tax department cooperate to prevent and detect work-life crime. This cooperation has developed very positively in a short time and has had a rapid and significant impact on efforts. As the proposers also point out, through their acquisitions the public must take the lead in promoting a serious working life. Following the initiative and involvement of the social partners, a number of recommendations have been drawn up to facilitate this job for municipalities and others. The government has also presented proposals for strengthening the public acquisition legislation. As a general rule, the use of apprentices in sectors where there is a particular need for apprenticeships shall be required. It is proposed to require contracting entities to require the maximum number of stages in the contract chain of public acquisitions in sectors where there are specific challenges. The legislative proposals are now under consideration in Stortinget. Even I have good experience with this from Oslo, where the bourgeois city council implemented this a few years ago. Flexible solutions are needed in modern working life. There is a broad consensus that permanent employment remains the main model of employment. In addition, different mechanisms may be needed to respond to changes in labour needs. Hire from the manning industry is an alternative to temporary employment for many enterprises. It is important that the various issues surrounding the manning industry are addressed in a coherent way and addressed in good dialogue with the social partners. The Government is committed to ensuring that all measures for a serious working life are targeted and well-functioning. Developments and issues in this area will therefore be pursued further. Proposalers also address the public service scheme, which is a central instrument against unacceptable pay and working conditions. The effective functioning of the scheme is important. The social partners have a very central role in the scheme, not least because the formation of wages is the responsibility of the parties. My view, therefore, is that any further development of the public service arrangement must take place in cooperation and understanding with the parties. The fight against crime at work is high on the government's agenda. There are no simple measures that alone will solve the problems associated with this. I am committed to finding good solutions, while continuing the good work that has begun, following the government's strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1278	I understand that the majority's representatives want to voice the disagreement in an area where there is really a great deal of political disagreement. I regret that all the proposals that are being presented today are being voted down – no one is getting further investigation. I agree with the Council of State that perhaps the most important means of combating social dumping and the crime of working life are the role of the parties. Therefore, I would like to ask: can the Council of State still envisage following up some of the proposals that are being voted down today, if the parties agree that there are good and meaningful proposals to combat social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1285	Today, we have a number of venues where we cooperate with the parties and different issues are addressed. Much of what has been proposed today is already being or has been done. Obviously, if the parties address different issues, or you want to address different questions more closely, we will of course be open to them. There are several of the issues that we consider to be primarily the responsibility of the parties and not least the initiative of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1290	Despite what the representative, Mr Rotevatn said, several of the proposals put forward here, we in the Labour Party, although the proposals come from SV this time, have had broad dialogue with, for example. The Landsförbund of the construction industry and the Joint Alliance re. There is a broad consensus in the industry that they will be effective in combating social dumping. I see that all the proposals unfortunately seem to be downgraded today, even though some of them are supported by the Christian People's Party – we appreciate that. I know that serious employers and serious trade unions want several of these proposals implemented jointly. If the Council of State can confirm that if the parties agree and there is nothing else to prevent any of the proposals from being implemented, it may be as if the 22 proposals we made in the past, which were voted down, but which were to some extent followed up by the government afterwards. They must be driven from skirmish to skirmish, but if the Council of State now confirms that she can move the scanner further, something good has come out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1297	As I said both in the main post and in the previous reply, a lot of work is done in this field, and the government has launched a number of initiatives. The government is pleased with both the cooperation and the initiatives of the parties in this area. We're going to pull that load with them and also go ahead where it's required. I cannot give any guarantee here and now that everything that comes from the parties will be implemented, but we are busy having a good dialogue and good cooperation with the parties, and I also believe that the government's action plan against labour crime shows that here we go ahead – not just words, it's also action. We have also greatly strengthened the budgets in the various areas of labour crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1302	‘The free flow of labour is initially a desired development within the EU and the EEA, but increased labour migration also leads to increased labour market criminality, due to the high availability of foreign labour. [[wrong]] This provides greater room for manoeuvre for criminal actors, in a way that threatens to undermine central pay and working conditions in parts of Norwegian working life, leading to extensive black work and other financial crime.’ It is from the report ‘Work Market Crime in Norway’ — a situation description from a number of public authorities in 2014. My question is simple: do the Council of State agree with the analysis provided by a number of public bodies – Labour Inspectorate, Criminal Service, Kripos, Food Authority, Nav, Foreign Affairs Police Unit, Tax Office, Customs Service, Foreign Affairs Directorate and Ecocrim? That's who I quoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1312	There is no doubt that we are part of a global world. We have an international labour market in many ways, and we also notice it here. At the same time, I would say that free movement of labour is something we've been used to in the Nordic region for many, many years. Now we are also part of the European labour market, and I think it is positive. It is good that you have the opportunity to move freely across borders and seek work where possible. But that does not mean that we are in favour of the exploitation of foreign labour, or that we are in favour of international crime. On the contrary, it's important that we fight it. That is why we have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate, which is why we have put the fight against the crime of working life high on the agenda, and that is why I, together with the EU and EEA ministers, have taken an initiative towards, among other things. Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and Lithuania on international cooperation to address these problems. It is well received by these countries. Yesterday I opened my fifth center to work crime. So this is what we're putting high on the agenda, and there's a cross-political consensus that this is something we're going to fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1317	The question was simple – whether she agreed with the analysis. The answer was complicated to understand. What I said was just what the state's own bodies accurately describe. They don't decide on the system, they just describe the consequences of the system. The centre lot considers that it is obvious that an attempt must be made to limit the possibilities involved. One of them is that one should limit the scope of the use of manning undertakings. And as I said in my post, it is liberatingly clear when the Council of State in a letter to me of 18 April says that repealing the Working Environment Act § 14-12 second paragraph will not conflict with the EEA Agreement. My question is: will the Council of State be positive about lifting that passport, as we have rules on temporary employment where agency staff can come in and meet the need?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1326	The Government, like the representative Lundtigen, is committed to having a serious and orderly working life in which permanent employment in a bipartite relationship is to be the principal direction of Norwegian working life. The use of contracted labour has remained relatively stable over the past five to six years. It's about 1.5 pst. by the workforce as a whole. We also see a decline in the last quarter of 2015. We're following developments closely, but I don't want to make any restrictions on that possibility. The size has not long since considered a proposal to repeal § 14-12. It was downhearted. I can also mention that we now see that not only is the fewer coming to Norway as a migrant worker, we also see that more immigrants are returning. It also reflects the labour market we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1333	Many municipalities and county municipalities have introduced the Telemarks model. I wonder if the council thinks it's good, or if she thinks it's bad. And if the Council of State thinks it's good, why is it not good to agree today to make demands for public procurement? And if the council thinks it's bad, I'd like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1338	I think it is very good that municipalities and county councils make demands on their purchases and acquisitions. As former City Council in Oslo, we did the same thing ourselves. We used our purchasing power to demand both apprentices and the number of contracts. I believe that the public as a major buyer should use its consumer power to influence the labour market and the labour market in a positive way. The government also follows up on this in its own strategies, by changing the procurement rules, including: demand for apprentices, but also demands the number of stages in the contract chain in public procurement, and in particular in those sectors where there are specific challenges. So I believe that to the greatest extent, both locally and nationally, you follow up exactly what the representative is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1346	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1351	When everyone agrees and says that they understand the serious problem of social dumping, and at the same time says that the Telemarks model is good, and then we're not going to make it a continuous method of working on it, it's something that creeps. I can't get what it is, but in two previous periods of ageing, I have been on the Labour and Social Committee and working on the action plans presented by the government of Stoltenberg. There was then a systematic difference in the size of the red-green batches and, in particular, the Right Party and the Progress Party, which systematically voted against the effective measures against social dumping, such as extended contractual obligations, care obligations, transparency. How in the world is it possible to discover social dumping if the trade union movement and those working on the construction site do not have access rights, joint responsibility, collective redress rights, different authorisation schemes? There were very many of these measures that the Right Party and the Advance Party were then totally systematically opposed. At first they also said why. They said, "This prevents competition on wages and salaries." And that's what it's all about, this is about the employees going down in pay. After all, these parties realized that it wasn't a good idea to say, so they stopped writing it in their comments. But that's what this is all about, it's about thinking that what you call today a flexible working life – that is, a more insecure working life and more precarious employment – makes many people feel that they're going to earn worse. There's a very big need that both the risk of getting caught gets bigger, that the penalty for this increases, because this is stealing hundreds of billions from the community. There are few things that are as economically profitable as social dumping and black work. I'm coming right now, along with the Municipal Committee, from State Building, we've just been talking to them. Then I ask them, the great builder: can you do this? Is it simple? So they say, no, there's more action to be taken. It's very hard to find this out, because there are very smart people doing it, and there's a lot of money to pick up. So if we don't get to this, it's the basements that win, and honest businesses that lose. And ordinary people get unsafe, dangerous jobs and wages they can't live off. And that's the very opposite of what we've done when we've built up Norway as a solid, good welfare society for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1360	The proposers have raised an important issue. Working for decent work and combating social dumping are important. Employment crime is serious and must be combated because it exploits workers and because it threatens the welfare state. The government takes this very seriously and is not passive, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen foreshadows. The government, in cooperation with the social partners, has developed a strategy against the crime of working life, which has received many positive feedback. Cooperation between the authorities and the social partners is important in order to ensure serious employment and decent working life. We have a problem with unprofessional actors challenging the serious and legitimate part of working life. It threatens the Norwegian model both by contributing to the loss of tax revenue and by rocking the basic value of working life that trusts. For several years, the Labour Inspectorate and other official control offices have been working systematically to combat unprofessional work. Nevertheless, both crime and social dumping are still detected in Norwegian working life. Social dumping affects workers who are exploited, but also employees and owners of enterprises underpinned by unprofessional operators are affected. The serious actors often lose in competition with the unprofessional. Therefore, the measures put in place must be taken correctly. Serious market actors have experienced several times the imposition of new obligations and burdens through increased legislation, but they have not taken action where there is a need for tightening up. The measures must be targeted in such a way as to affect the unprofessional actors that we want to remove. Tripartite sectoral programmes are an important part of the work against unprofessionalism. In 2012, a tripartite sector programme started in the clean-up sector, and from 2014 there are also industry programmes in the outdoor and transport sectors. There is a need for broad mobilization throughout the world of work. An important measure is to strengthen cooperation between official controls, and joint action and closer cooperation between the police, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate have been followed. This government has provided funds for better coordination and co-location of units to combat labour-life crime. In 2015, units were established in the cities of Bergen, Stavanger and Oslo, and yesterday a new centre was opened in Trondheim. At these centres, employees from the Labour Inspectorate, Nav, the police and the tax department work together to carry out joint supervision, guidance and control of selected industries. The feedback is that these are effective measures. If we are to succeed, work on the crime of working life must be interdisciplinary, cross-political and transversal. The debate on labour and social dumping need not be as polarized as the opposition often suggests. It is not constructive that opinions and attitudes which neither one of us nor the parties to which we belong are added in debates and public vocabulary. We have to work... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1375	I'm sorry, time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1378	...better cross-political. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1383	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1399	Similar to the rest of Europe, the number of asylum seekers in Norway has increased sharply in the last year. The large increase in the number of asylum seekers has also created pressure on the Norwegian health service. Health services are often one of the first contact points for many refugees when they arrive – and later when they are established. The responsibility for health services for asylum seekers in municipalities rests with the Municipal Health Service Act. The right to health care from them comes to Norway to seek asylum. This includes both somatic health care and mental health care provided by the community and specialist health services, including help for drug problems. However, adult asylum seekers in state reception are not entitled to care services from the municipality. So asylum seekers, refugees, and those who are together, in general, have the same right to health services as the rest of the population. Earlier this year, it was known through the media that health sisters throughout the country are concerned about how to provide, in particular, single minor refugees with a sufficient supply. In particular, they are concerned about the areas of mental health and infectious diseases. The country group of health sisters in the Norwegian Nursing Association has gained experience from municipalities in the follow-up of these children and young people. Experiences can be summarised with lack of and unclear information about local authorities' obligations when it comes to following-up children's and young people's health varying and partly insufficient structure of work unclear responsibilities of insufficient resources for follow-up Health centres and health sisters have a far greater role to play in the follow-up than expected, according to the Country Group of Health Sisters. To a large extent, they need to clear up, coordinate and do the practical job out there. The Norwegian Association of Nurses has called for a screening or investigation to reveal the vulnerability of single asylum seekers as one measure to ensure a targeted follow-up of these children. On March 3rd, NRK Buskerud had a look-up where a health sister in the municipality of Ringerijke and the head of the nurses' union in Buskerud were interviewed. At the Hvalsmoen transit reception it had until then been a health sister who had had sole responsibility for almost 850 people. ‘I don’t think it is well known what our tasks are when we get new countrymen in our municipality’, pronounced health oysters and the leader of the media – and I agree. Asylum seekers in Norway are entitled to assistance from the local health service and the specialist services. According to the UDI circular, the host municipality bill shall ensure that residents of state asylum facilities are also provided with a range of prevention services, especially in the case of psychosocial disorders, follow-up of vaccination programmes, and advice on diet and nutrition. Long-term treatment of minor conditions should be limited and discontinued on a case-by-case basis. According to UDI circular 2011-034 on care requirements for single minors in reception, the reception shall ensure that the individual is provided with the health care he or she needs, both mentally and physically. The reception shall facilitate the individual’s assistance in dealing with psychological plagues resulting from experiences of war, conflict, flight, loss and exile. This means that single minor asylum seekers should be fully entitled to health care. The country group of health sisters’ awareness-raising and experience-raising from Norwegian municipalities is a cause for concern. It is very important that the health provision of asylum seekers and refugees is good, and the provision of health care for single minors is particularly important to last. In December 2015, Stortinget addressed an interpellation by the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol on a similar theme. In this debate, the Minister for Health stressed that asylum seekers generally have good health. The healthiest and most resource-intensive people, according to the Minister of Health and Welfare, have the resources to travel and seek protection in other countries, and the government's experience from last year was that those who came to the country, as a group, have easier to cope with moderate health problems. Maybe this is right, maybe not. Several of the people I've been talking to in the municipalities report that asylum seekers who are traumatized when they come, who are more traumatized by the delay. Long waiting is too much to bear, and mental illness and problems are not uncommon at all. The Minister of Health and Health said in the debate last December that the government would follow the situation when it comes to health care for asylum seekers, carefully, and showed quite correctly that many are experiencing traumas that can be overcome by mental health challenges over time when this is not well implemented. Last year, the Minister of Health and Health also showed that a pool of voluntary health professionals was in place to help municipalities with capacity problems in the health and care services, and 600 people registered. He also indicated that the allocations to the five resource centres for selected and traumatic stress were increased and should be used to strengthen the professional competence of the staff of the municipalities and the specialist services working with asylum seekers, in particular children and young people. For a long time, I have been more critical of the Minister of Health and Health of the fact that asylum seekers are largely healthy, and that there is not enough emphasis from the government on equipping our healthcare system for the new situation with many more asylum seekers. It applies to the municipal health service, but also to the specialist services, which, on the contrary, had to tolerate increasing efficiency requirements and less money at their disposal in connection with the supplementary proposition last autumn, which came as a result of the increased asylum and refugee dreams. The pool of health workers in charge of the Health Directorate, as I know, has not worked. Municipalities are free to decide how they will organise healthcare provision for asylum seekers and refugees. Health authorities recommend that municipalities ensure easy access to health services for residents so that they can easily contact healthcare professionals. Many municipalities have good experience with interdisciplinary refugee health teams, as in the municipality of Bergen. There, they have given priority to providing health screening both at reception and during construction. But recently, in my view, the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health and Care came up with an eye-catching decision. According to the advice, there is no good evidence to suggest an early health interview to the Council. The monitoring of individual health status may, according to the Council, create ethical challenges if what is being covered requires long-term follow-up that is not carried out. They believe that in the event of capacity problems, a more risk-based approach can represent a more appropriate prioritisation of healthcare resources. Thus, the Council did not decide to provide timely health talks for asylum seekers. They did not assess the part of the health investigation that is intended for the protection of infectious diseases. There is today a guide for the provision of health services to asylum seekers, refugees and those who are associated with their family, developed by the Health Directorate. According to the guide, the Health Directorate’s recommendation is that tuberculosis screening should be carried out immediately, two days after arrival, at the latest within 14 days. This is not a matter of discussion, but the Health Directorate also recommends that, within three months of arrival, the municipality provide a health investigation, including the provision of testing for HIV, hepatitis and syphilis, to all refugees and asylum seekers to identify health status and any need for mental and/or somatic follow-up. In the context of this health examination, information on entitlement to health care and health services and how to treat illness should also be provided according to the guide. That such an early health examination is now being asked, I believe that there is a great cause for concern, and I would just like to hear the health minister's assessment of the director of the Health Directorate, whether an early health examination within three months is still to be carried out, or whether the municipalities are to listen to the National Council for Quality and Priorities in Health and Care, which does not support such a health study among those who have recently arrived. The guide also recommends not to take a health examination when building in the municipality. The exception is transfer refugees who move directly to the municipality. It can also be discussed whether there should not be a new health study for all also by building up. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Health and Welfare how the government will ensure a good and necessary health supply for asylum seekers, in particular the need for health care for single minor asylum seekers, and how the serious concerns of health care providers are followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1455	In 2015, 31 145 people sought protection in Norway. It's almost a triple in comparison to 2014. Among these were 5,297 unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. There were also many children and young people who came along with adults. Arrivals were particularly high between August and November. It challenged the capacity of all our welfare services and of the overall health and care services. Since mid-December, the number of applicants has been significantly lower, including for single minors. Now it's below the average for the season compared to previous years. However, the forecasts are very uncertain. We are reviewing experiences and preparing for a possible new increase. At the same time, we follow up on those who have come. Most of the time, asylum seekers have good health. This also appears to apply to those who have come to Norway recently. Children and young asylum seekers are particularly vulnerable. We know that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are at risk of developing mental health disorders and that a certain proportion will need mental health care. Many health problems can be attributed to the situation in which they are located — alone, without close family or safe adults in Norway. In addition, county dental clinics report large movements of asylum seekers and refugees in need of dental treatment. Asylum seekers coming to Norway shall be accepted in a good way. All asylum seekers are entitled to health services such as the rest of the population from the time they have promoted the application for asylum. Responsibilities are initially clear, but in the autumn – with a large arrival in the near future – a challenging situation arose for many municipalities and hospitals. Good communication between service levels and departments is essential. The Health Directorate regularly updates the guide on the provision of health services to refugees, asylum seekers and family reunifications. The Directorate has also, together with the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and the Institute for Public Health, sent information to the counties, health companies and municipalities. In order to gain more knowledge of the situation, the Health Directorate will carry out a survey of municipalities that have or have had asylum receptions. The aim is to get an overview of the experiences of municipalities. The Health Directorate will also examine the provision of services to asylum seekers in outpatient paediatric and juvenile psychiatric clinics and the district psychiatric centres and examine the extent to which the BUPs and DPS provide assistance to other services. Concerns have been voiced that young lone asylum seekers are not receiving the offer they are entitled to. There is no doubt that the capacity of health services has been challenged in some areas of the country as a result of increased asylum arrivals last autumn. I record that the Country Group of Health Sisters is concerned about the capacity to follow up on children and young people. Regional health enterprises reported specific challenges in mental health protection in December. In the municipalities, access to interpreters is reported as a challenge. The planned Health DG surveys will clarify the scope of these challenges. Many still work well. Research carried out before last year’s increased asylum arrivals shows that most children receive health services from ordinary health services and that the majority of the receptions believe that children and young people receive a good offer. Many single minors are doing well in education and school, showing numbers from the SSB. Of those now in the 18–29 group, three out of four were in work or education in 2014. The government has several measures to ensure the protection of asylum seekers, in particular children and young people, sound health care in local and specialist health services: In order to strengthen the competence of health professionals working with asylum seekers, in particular children and young people, 5 million were granted. kr extra for 2015 to the five resource centres for violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention. The increase will continue in 2016. During the spring, the county councillors, resource centres and the IMFi organise national conferences on psychosocial follow-up of asylum seekers. The aim is to enhance the competence of the healthcare system for the mental health of asylum seekers and refugees and the need for psychosocial follow-up. Actions shall contribute to a wide range of service gaps. Furthermore, for 2016 it is granted 11.1 million. kr to regional health enterprises for tuberculosis studies. Hospitals now report that they will have the necessary capacity for X-ray research through cooperation between health regions if there are as many asylum seekers as the last harvest. 6 million have been allocated for the purchase of vaccinations and for the monitoring of vaccinations. kr in 2016. In addition to appropriations directly linked to the healthcare provision for asylum seekers, I would like to refer to the government's overall commitment to the healthcare provision of the population. As I said, asylum seekers have the same rights to healthcare as the general public. Asylum seekers shall be offered, as far as possible, through the regular health services. The most important thing we can do to ensure sound health care for asylum seekers is therefore to strengthen normal health services. The average expenditure incurred by municipalities in the case of asylum-seekers shall be covered. In particular, in order to contribute to the capacity and resources of municipalities to provide statutory health services to asylum seekers, the basic grant and the grant per resident in ordinary reception were increased by 20 pst. in the 2016 budget. Key to successful integration policy is good health provision, including for newly arrived refugees. The government presents a Communication on the integration policy of the Stortinget in mid-May, where health services should also be mentioned. Lone minors who are granted a residence permit shall be resident in a municipality. These municipalities receive a specific grant in addition to the integration grant. In order to contribute to increased settlement, municipalities receive an additional one-off grant for each single minor resident in 2016. The government has launched several actions and has provided significant resources to strengthen the capacity and quality of the health services of children and young people in reception and for those living in municipalities. This is the necessary action to help asylum seekers and refugees receive adequate health care. At the same time, we can do a lot to avoid the unnecessary burden on health services from increased asylum arrivals. Good health is not created in healthcare. By ensuring that asylum seekers are given the opportunity to live as normal a life as possible, we will prevent the development of mental health disorders. It is important to ensure that children and young people can get into kindergarten, school and leisure activities early. It also means a lot to look beyond the health sector when discussing these issues. In order to contribute to the health and successful integration of asylum seekers coming to Norway, we rely on multiple actors playing together. I believe that we are already doing well, and, as I said, the government will shortly present its own report on integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1493	Thank you for the answer from the Minister of Health and Care. Many measures have been taken and increased in a good number of areas. Nevertheless, I am concerned that, despite the efforts made by the Minister of Health and Health, there are some concerns both from health sisters out in the municipalities and from children’s and young people’s psychiatry that health services are not well protected enough to take care of these single minors in a good enough way. It seemed to me to be serious, and I hope and expect the Minister of Health and Health to follow this closely in the future in order to be able to prevent better and provide equivalent services even under the law. I notice that the Minister did not respond to what I took up in my interview, that the National Council for Priorities in Health and Care now does not have to do an early health examination when one comes, which is currently in the director of the Directorate of Health. Early health testing is important in my view in order to monitor how to prevent particular mental disorders, and to be able to pick out those who need extra help. So I want the Minister of Health to assess this. Now many municipalities have come to realize that early health calls are no longer important, but they may still do so. In Bergen they still hold on to this, and one also has a health assessment when building, which is also not required by law. So does the Minister of Health consider strengthening the demand for health services by means of a guideline waiver as a way of ensuring a more equivalent supply and not so wide a variation? Finally, I would like to comment on this with health care for the so-called paperless. We have had many issues in which one through the media has been aware that the health service in Norway takes on immigration policy, among other things. I would like to refer to the small good who had so-called analatresia, which was operated on and had an eviscerated bowel, but did not receive reconstruction. He was sent out of the country, and they operated on him in Germany, and we were responsible for our hospitals taking on immigration policy. I would like to comment on that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1506	I thought that this follow-up was a good opportunity to answer the question related to the National Council for Priorities in Health Care Recommendations on Health Studies. I am concerned that we ensure that everyone in Norway, including asylum seekers and refugees, receives the health care they need as early as possible. Then it is also important that we prioritise resources properly. National advice on health care priorities does not recommend that all refugees and asylum seekers are offered an early health interview. The Council considers that the evidence base for this is weak. Nor has the recommendation for such a study been developed in view of a situation such as the influx of refugees that we saw last autumn. A costly health survey with a debateable effect is not the best option to put in place now. I agree with the Council on the priority for health services that the provision of health care to refugees and asylum seekers must follow the same priority logic as the healthcare system. I am pleased that the Council of Health Care Priorities has assessed this and made a recommendation. There is now the highest level of competence in this area, including: National Unit of Competence for Minority Health. This does not mean that we should not adapt the offer, but rather that instead of carrying out large surveys with uncertain benefits, we should be in favour of actions that we know work. This may include, inter alia: to ensure the knowledge of the health care of asylum seekers and refugees, to provide accessibility, to adapt services and to keep an eye on particularly vulnerable groups, such as: unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. In order to achieve this, we have strengthened both the host municipality grant to municipalities with asylum recipients, the integration grant and the special grant for the residence of lone minor asylum seekers. We also continue to strengthen the same health and care services both through the growth of free income in municipalities and through the commitment to specialist health services. The size will also soon be presented with a separate key health priority message. It's important that we think through that every time we make an offer in healthcare, we do it at the expense of other patients. I believe that the National Council for Health Care Priorities has seen that conducting large systematic health studies on a group that consistently has a large proportion of healthy people is not sensible, because it would simply affect the ability and capacity of municipalities, for example. providing health care to groups in the Norwegian community who are currently ill and who do not receive sufficient health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1517	As the interpellant was involved, the Workers' Party raised this issue earlier in Stortinget. It's important that we keep hold of the topic, because it's a lot of uncertainty. And it's important that we address the right things and challenges that are en route. I'm glad we don't have the same state of emergency today as we had last – that it's getting fewer, so that we might be able to seal the holes where we might not be good enough last. My background is that I have visited a number of municipalities, including Bømlo municipality, which is one of the municipalities that accept and reside most in relation to the population, but also has an asylum reception with many families with children. It was impressive how quickly they had learned Norwegian. What's the challenge is that the municipality doesn't quite know how they are, because they don't have the right to have the situation around them. There will be children, and it will raise children — parents voluntarily or not on a voluntary basis — it is a challenge in itself. The children seem robust, but they ask how far to travel. Bømlo is an island – are you going to take them on a boat? Have the traumatic experiences associated with it? There are a lot of questions you know about when you're with both them and the employees. You're afraid of what theme you're going to bring up with your children. But it's also about who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in charge, and who decides if it's good enough where they live. When we talked to the kids, someone was nice to play and wanted to play, but the piano was broken. Another boy said they had broken the table tennis table. How are the facilities around them? What they could imagine was going to school every day, because it was their free space. There is something about creating the best possible everyday life for them, whether they stay in Norway or not. We've also visited prisons and psychiatry, etc. What is often a constant challenge for some of the people who come here is that we are not familiar with their health history in advance. We don't have – necessarily – the language. Some cultures don't have culture and words for what goes on in mental health either. So we have a lot of barriers in how to get to them in a good way. There's a lot of things going on building up good trauma skills, so we hit the right ones in the right way. I've had an interpellation with the Center for Crisis Psychology myself. With the tragic accident that we now had in the West, I see once again that it is Atle Tieregrov that is being used, because he is the one who is the best at treating traumatized families and giving the best response. He is also the one who may have the longest experience of both international and national crises. So a small appeal at the end: couldn't we soon get the funding of the Centers for Crisis Psychology in place? I don't know how old animal burrow is, but I feel like he's getting closer to retirement. I know he's been offered to become part of the Public Health Institute, but I don't know all the details, I don't think it's the right place. It's about building skills. It is good that municipalities are listened to when they meet, and that they provide proper supervision of asylum recipients, so that it becomes a most normal everyday life for the children who live there temporarily or who are going to live here for good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1534	Kjersti Toppe addresses an important issue in the interpellation – sound health care for asylum seekers, focusing on children and young people. I would like to say the most about single minor asylum seekers, who are probably the most vulnerable – especially on their journey from their country of origin, in their receptions when they arrive, and also in the municipalities. Last year, there were actually 5,297. There's a lot of them. It is clear that this is a burden on our system, at the same time as the more than 30 000 asylum seekers who otherwise came. My experience is particularly from the municipality of Drammen, where we have a long tradition of caring for asylum seekers, migrant workers and not least quite a number of lone minor asylum seekers. The experience is that they're doing pretty well. They are well-functioning at school, and they participate in sports and activities in the same way as others — and it's about health. The government has just prioritised funds to strengthen the school health service and decided that we should have psychological services in each municipality. So this is about both prevention and treatment. I am also concerned when we talk about the health of the receptions – especially the mental health that is challenging – that we also look at how the volunteers work. Volunteers are often the gateway to contact — except with those that the state has decided to have contact with you — and perhaps it provides security and an opportunity into society. I think we need to organize for volunteers to get better working conditions on the many receptions we have. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association and the Red Cross make a formidable effort, but they are often told that they can come to the receptions when it suits the receptions – so maybe we miss someone who can coordinate the services. As far as financial support is concerned, several things have been said by the Council of State here. The basic financial contribution to the municipalities increased by 20 pst in 2016. per recipient resident. Municipalities that settle single minor asylum seekers receive an additional grant in 2016 to motivate their residence. We've got the regional resource center for trauma, and it's also strengthened in 2016 by 5 million. kr. What’s about somatic – tuberculosis and vaccines – is perhaps the most important priority, and it’s also strengthened. The Health Directorate also has a counsellor who is regularly updated. I think it is important to give priority to those who need it the most, to put resources on those who are most vulnerable, and that is children and young people. It seems a little strange to me that we're going to spend a lot of money on exhaustive health studies for almost 30,000, when we know that many of those who come are quite healthy, and we know that some of them are going out. It's also like when you're at a reception, you have a right to help. If something happens, you're taken to a hospital and you get an investigation. You also get a dental examination when it's something specific. I think we should actually get a little bit more experience before we launch a large-scale device. We've already committed close to 9 billion. In 2016, precisely in order to receive asylum seekers in Norway in a good and dignified way, we will continue to do so. We get, as has been mentioned here, an integration message. It will now come in May, and then we will also have plenty of opportunity to discuss how we should prioritize the measures and not least the means for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1553	The representative Örmen Johnsen said that we need to get more experience in order to evaluate. There are at least two things we know about: one is that health sisters are important, and it helps to have them. The health sisters now say that they get too little, so the money for the health sisters has to be earmarked, otherwise it doesn't necessarily make the health sisters. And that also shows the last numbers. It's very important. The second thing we know about is the health status of lone minor asylum seekers. It's probably a little bit about dental health, but it's mostly about mental health. There we have experience of how temporaryness creates mental ill health – precisely what the government has just proposed to tell all the lonely minor asylum seekers to experience. Then several of them get very sick. The Children’s Ombudsman has stated this very clearly and refers to various reports, including: one from the Swedish Institute for Public Health in 2009 and ‘Life year in reception for lone minor asylum seekers’, from 2013, which is a thick book and which I recommend people to read, because there is something about the quality of many points. Health is important, and school health services, that is, the health sisters, are incredibly important. So it has to be in place. I'm not going to decide whether to have this full health study. You might want to make a selection there. But then at least you have to have personnel with competence at the receptions that can sort out who should have and not have. Today, there are far too low requirements for professional competence for those in reception, including those in reception for single minor asylum seekers. There is a requirement for one to have pediatric competence, but nothing is said about what the pediatric competence should be, and there are too few adults who can be there for those young people who need someone to talk to, maybe open up to and tell them what the problem is. Because there are few young people in the world who are as traumatized as those who have been on these difficult journeys. In light of that, it's amazing how good it is with a lot of them – because they get hope if they're safe, because they desperately want most of everything to put all that hurt behind them and start a life where they can get a life. But they are so desperately dependent on some adults there who have time for them, who have the skills to help them with professional things, but also with the purely human, social things. So here I just want to say that the Minister of Health should have a great interest in what is happening in immigration policy now, because the constraints proposed by this government are in the middle of the group of lone minor asylum seekers to be put on hold even further. So far, there have been no measures to improve their situation. Many of them are waiting a long, long, long time for guards to help them. I've been talking about a system that I've called a "a blunder in life," that we should have a kind of refugee guide, and that some adult men can take on that role. Because that's what it takes. So the council says that the important thing is that you live as soon as possible a normal life. Yes, I agree, but then we have to make sure that they live, and we have to ensure the quality of the receptions, because it is not normal for 16-17-year-olds to have one adult of 15-20 pieces to deal with. No, most people have mom and dad as well. It doesn't have these kids. They have nothing to do with, and therefore they often resort to the crazy environments, because they are the ones who see them and accept them. There's not much good health in being recruited for crime, abuse or other bad things. This is a very complex problem, so you can't see health in this area as something completely delimited, mechanically connected just to the body. There's a lot of mental health, and it's holistic, prevention work we have to go in with. You also have to help those who have actually been hurt, and there are a lot of those who have become during a dangerous journey towards what they hope to be a life in the future. I ask the Council of State to be interested in what is happening now – all these restrictions proposed by the government – and also to earmark money for the school health service, because that is absolutely necessary, otherwise there will not be health sisters of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1572	Thank you to the representative, Kjersti Toppe, who addresses an important question. We are in a situation where, over the last year, we have experienced the dimensioning of both capacity and competence as a demanding challenge. It says something about the mobility we have to plan to target asylum seekers coming to the country. Of course, it is particularly challenging for children and young people and for some of the very least. There is a complex group of children and young people coming to Norway. Now Bømlo and Drammen have been drawn up as examples. I can use my own municipality, Gjøvik, as another example, which I often do. There we have a state care centre for lonely minors. Clearly, this has led us to have a unique access to specialised competence to meet children and young people. The representative of Örmen Johnsen mentioned part of the grants granted to the municipalities. Gjøvik Municipality is one of the municipalities that do not have a municipal psychologist – just to show the tension between what the municipality is doing and what the state is doing in a municipality. Fortunately, the cooperation between the municipality of Gjøvik and the state care centre works very well, but we also know that state care centres are now to be built down and private actors are to take over, so following that competence until the new actors are part of this. Technology has not been mentioned so far in the debate, and I think it is important to mention it. Interpreting services have been referred to as a scarce capacity in the mapping and in the initial calls. It is important to use technology, and we now have authorized programs for this, so that we can increase capacity and not necessarily need to transport the interpreter service so much. The storage of health information is important, and it is important that we use the technology so that we do not have to keep repeating and asking children the same questions. When language is a challenge already, it is unnecessary to repeat it. I have also not heard that the somatic part of health has been mentioned so much here. The professionals say that this is closely related, and often one sees the somatic rashes before it comes to the psychics. For this reason, the overall capacity here is important: the doctors, the health sisters and also other health services that meet children and young people and asylum seekers in general. It's important to have a status. It can take years for mental illness to get out of control. That's why we have to have the capacity to meet this in the years to come. The interaction between the actors is therefore particularly important, and a debate I am concerned with is that we should build up under the municipalities that are betting on having a reception apparatus over time, such as Drammen and Bømlo. Gjøvik is also one of the municipalities that have for a long time accepted many immigrants, asylum seekers and migrant workers in relation to the population, and therefore has a high level of population competence. It is also important to mobilise voluntary activities, and in the municipality of Gjøvik an emergency reception has now become a permanent reception that is quite large. I have recently left as head of the Centre for Freedom, and we tried to recruit volunteers, and to some extent we managed to do so around that reception, but mobilizing the volunteer in the situation we have been in in the last six months was demanding, because much of that volunteer had already been taken out. It says something about having a capacity and mobility over time. Therefore, it is also important to keep an eye on the voluntary nature of this work. It is also important with regard to children and young people to create a normal situation and not to morbidize them, because they have an enormous adaptability, a tremendous capacity to evolve, and the fact that we play on the most of the fresh is also important in the situation we are in and are going to be in for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1587	I would like to thank everyone who took part in the debate. I think this is a very important field, which may not be so often mentioned when we are discussing the field of asylum. The reason for the interpellation was that we have now received very clear feedback from the health services themselves, both from the municipalities with the health sisters and from the BUP, that the supply and capacity of health services are too scarce in relation to the challenges. We can't have it that way, and it's incredibly important that we get fixed up in it. It also applies to child and youth psychiatry, which one might not have talked about as much here. Then there has also been a discussion about this with early health studies in everyone. I noticed that the Council of State was ready to support what the National Council recommended, namely that one does not do it routinely. Then we have a situation that is such that the director of the Health Directorate who is what the municipalities are up to, what is called IS-1022, which was last changed as late as December 9, 2015, when no longer applies, because in it is quite clear in point 2.3 that health testing is recommended within three months. I'm not in agreement with the Minister of Health on this matter. I have great faith in such an early health investigation. It is not very comprehensive, as one might get the impression in this debate, but it is more a survey — and it is precisely that one can develop any need for both mental and/or somatic follow-up. It's more of a pre-convention conversation. One might, for example: discovered things like untreated diabetes, and I think it would be expensive for the health care community to go away from this principle. I can understand that the National Council made such a decision in a situation with a lot more, but I believe that the health service can get twice as much back by not preventing it this way. Can the Minister of Health confirm that this guide will be changed, so that it is clear to the municipalities what they are recommended to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1600	To the last question: As the representative was also involved in his intervention, it is that the guide mainly covers health studies related to disease prevention, and that was not the topic of the discussion of the National Council for Priority. It was an extended health survey to have a general assessment of the health survey for asylum seekers and also a mental health monitoring. Then it is the responsibility of healthcare to follow the advice provided by the National Council for Priority, including the Health Directorate. It's a fundamental question the representative Grung asks, when she asks, how are they doing? I think a lot of the answer to the challenges that the representative took up, is just about getting a quick settlement, so that one gets into a situation with a normal everyday life, with school, with activity, with friends, with sports, with football and a family to deal with. There is now a great deal of work in the municipalities to get a faster settlement, in a situation where we have been through a very high influx. If one of the municipalities has challenges to deal with this situation, we have good centres of expertise to seek advice from. But I am concerned that the main solution in this area is to provide help through the ordinary health care, not to build services alongside. I think it's a misunderstanding in the interpellant's argument. She is quite right when she describes how such a high influx of people has caused many parts of the service to be tested, both municipal health services in some municipalities and specialist health services, especially in places of very high arrival before people have entered the ordinary system, such as in Eastfold and in Finnmark, but also in those places that have received temporary reception. This capacity challenge addresses healthcare. It's because in Norway we have a healthcare service with a lot of resources that can distort their efforts in areas where they are in difficult situations, and that's very good. But then I think it's a little special that the interpellant at the same time says that it's spectacular that the National Council for Priority has come to it in my opinion quite natural conclusion that then it's not more sensible to use the same people and make conversations with people that are essentially healthy, when we see at the same time that we have a capacity challenge to help those who are actually sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1610	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1624	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1638	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e1644	Then we're ready to go to voting. There's a couple of sharp votes, so the president hopes it's counted correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2471	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2480	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2489	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 2 and 3, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for strict requirements for the re-use of thermal energy when setting up data centres.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to wind up the scheme/assess to wind up the system of certification and sale of original guarantees’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2517	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess whether and how energy-efficient data centres should be facilitated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2539	The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2563	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2640	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2649	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2669	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-12, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to submit proposals to amend the Working Environment Act § 14-12 [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2685	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3 — Proposals Nos. 5-2007 and proposals Nos. 9–12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to strengthen the recognition requirements of the HR register and to ensure that staff undertakings are required to be sound. [[capital requirements]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the social partners to carry out an overall review of the legislation on rentals.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in cooperation with the parties, to propose measures that may increase the degree of organisation of Norwegian labour, such as raising the trade union deduction.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make the necessary legislative proposals to strengthen the sanctioning possibilities for firms committing serious crimes, including considering the possibility of coercive winding-up of such enterprises.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to make proposals to reduce the documentation requirement of the Public Service Act.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to ensure that decisions in the subject matter of the Tariff are taken for four years at a time.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government, in cooperation with the parties, to ensure that the requirement of proof in the case of an extension of a decision in the subject matter of the Tariff is amended so that the burden of proof against the name of the party requiring the revocation of a public service decision is borne by the party.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present legislative proposals clarifying the concept of ‘permanent employee’ in the Working Environment Act.’ The Greens have announced that they will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2737	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 and proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the practice of public acquisitions which contribute to a serious working life by following up procurement requirements in line with the Telemark model and the rules of seriousness presented by Diffi, KS, BNL and the Joint Confederation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce joint and several liability for public builders.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to strengthen the possibility of imposing a ban on industry for operators who repeatedly seriously violate the Public Procurement Act.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2774	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2781	Case No. 7 and 8 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 52 and 53. There are no proposals for comment on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-03.ana.ud1459e2903	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? So has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
