ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e52	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative of the Rogaland Christian People's Party, Jakob Aano, has passed away. He died on February 10, this year, almost 96 years old. Jakob Aano was born in Sauda on 10 April 1920. He grew up in Sauda, became a student in 1940 and cand.philol. in 1948. After several years as a teacher and principal, he traveled, along with Agnes' wife and the three children they had until then, to Tanzania as a broadcaster for the Norwegian Mission Company, where he also reported live to the NRK. In the 1991 autobiography ‘Over all borders’ he writes: ‘A year in Africa puts a lasting distinction between before and after for me and the family. [[...]] You get a basic hold that characterizes both the way you think and the way you react in the future.’ The list of everything Jakob Aano got to be part of as a schoolman, a misioner, a politician and a cultural worker, is long and extensive. When the Christian People's Party in Rogaland had to start looking for one who could carry the legacy further after Kjell Bondevik as the magistrate of the county and the party to the election in 1965, Jakob Ano was put on. In the next five periods, Stortinget Jakob Aanos was at work. Jakob Aano entered early in the history of both the Christian People's Party and the Storting as one of the really great parliamentarians. For a long time he was a leading ideologist for his party and led the Aano Committee, which in 1984 delivered the position of Ideology Policy. From 1983 to 1985 he was also the Vice-Chairman of the Christian People's Party. In his first three periods at Stortinget, from 1965 to 1977, Jakob Aano was a member of the church and teaching committee. In the next two periods, from 1977 to 1985, he served as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. In the last two years, he led the Committee which, at that time, had the Foreign and Constitutional Committee. Ano was a member of the Defence Committee from 1981 to 1983. The many years in which a high-income pensioner was primarily influenced by cultural work, both through employment and bookwork. Not least he contributed to increased attention around his good friend, author Alfred Hauge. We have reason to be both happy and proud that a capacity that Jakob Aano spent as many years of his life in service as the people elected. We remember Jacob Aano for his work in the Greatness and bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e79	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Rasmus Hansson on sick leave from 20 May until further notice from the Central Party Group on the leave of the representative of Janne Sjelmo Nordås from 23 May until 26 May to attend the Arctic Parliamentary Conference in Bodø On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Une Aina BastholmFor Nordland County: Willfred Nordlund
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e113	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e116	I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of myself to ensure full consideration of the social security settlement in Stortinget as the importance of the matter and the tradition suggests. I also ask that the proposal be examined in accordance with Article 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which states that it is to be ‘opened to the representatives for at least one day and then entered on the agenda for consideration’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e123	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e135	Let me begin with a quote from the government's political platform: ‘European countries are Norway’s close neighbours, friends and main trading partners. Therefore, Norwegian foreign policy must begin in Europe.’ These words illustrate the importance Europe and the EU have for Norway – political, economic and in most areas of society. The government’s strategy for cooperation with the EU 2014-2017 reflects this. The strategy sets out the objectives of government's European policy and also illustrates the breadth of cooperation: increasing competitiveness and value creation, improving the quality of research and education, ambitious climate and energy policies, security and security, and a comprehensive migration policy. This breadth also permeates the government’s work programme for cooperation with the EU in 2016. The work programme shows that our promise to pursue a proactive European policy is not empty words. The programme systematically monitors key challenges for Norway and the EU. Several of these areas will be discussed later in this paper. I would like to highlight here the special importance of the EEA Agreement in terms of our access to and work towards Europe. This government has taken special steps to ensure a homogeneous internal market throughout the EEA territory. It is therefore gratifying that, as the first Norwegian Government, we have now been able to reduce to zero the follow-up to legislation with which Norway alone can do something, namely the national implementation of legislation contained in the EEA Agreement. As the State Council responsible for both EEA/EU cooperation and Nordic cooperation, I am committed to exploiting the opportunities for a more active Nordic European policy. We need to get better at seeing the Nordic region in a European perspective, both economically and politically. The Nordic region has a good starting point to influence. The north can lead the way. We need to think more of the North in Europe. In 2017, Norway held the Presidency of the Nordic Government Cooperation, the Nordic Council of Ministers. The government will use the Presidency strategically to strengthen the Nordic competitiveness and to promote active Nordic European political cooperation. Europe and European cooperation face many challenges. Five of them are especially central: the refugee and migration challenges a more demanding security policy situation for Europe The future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU needs more sustainable growth, migration and global competitiveness climate and energy Last year, around 1 million people came to Europe. 50 pst. from Syria, 15 p.m. from African countries and 21 pst. from Afghanistan. In the first few months of this year, much more came than last year at the same time, and we can't rule out that many also come out in 2016. For Europe, it is essential to combat the causes of people being driven away. Efforts to reduce migration pressure against external borders, to combat trafficking in human beings, to gain control of those crossing external borders and to ensure an orderly division of responsibilities between European countries must also be given high priority. We all have to contribute and do our utmost to achieve this. Without European cooperation, we will not. The EU-Turkey agreement in March may thus lead to positive developments. The agreement is now being implemented and the key issue of visa liberalisation is being discussed. The hope is that the agreement can help to find a pan-European solution to the situation. The EU emphasises that the agreement is subject to international obligations and EU law. It is also crucial for Norway. Turkey is making a great effort for Syrian refugees and needs Europe's support. Norway is already doing a lot through resettlement, relocation, rescue and so-called hotspots. We also contribute EEA funds and humanitarian resources in Greece for the refugees and migrants there. As regards visa freedom for Turkish citizens, it is important that the conditions laid down are met. It is positive that Turkey recognizes the need for it. For the government, it is important that visa freedom does not lead to an increase in the number of groundless asylum applications from Turkish citizens. As a result of the refugee and migration crisis, the Nordic countries have introduced temporary control measures at their borders for the first time since the introduction of the Nordic passport freedom in 1954. The measures have been necessary. At the same time, those border barriers which in the long term will neither promote free movement nor promote competitiveness in the Nordic region. We therefore need to work even more closely together to contribute to good pan-European solutions to the refugee and migration crisis. We are concerned that the countries of origin, transit and destination must work together to find long-term solutions. At European level, we need to find solutions to ensure that everyone crossing the external borders of Schengen is registered and that people without protection are quickly returned to their respective countries. However, common solutions require all countries to take their share of responsibility so that there is a fair distribution of asylum seekers. Unfortunately, the political will and ability to find common solutions have proved weak in some Member States. At the same time, large numbers of migrants without protection have put the institution of asylum under pressure. A more orderly management of those coming, and an increased focus on people with real protection needs, can save the institution of asylum from becoming confused. The second main challenge for Europe and EU cooperation is a more demanding and complex security situation in and around Europe. The terrorist attacks in Paris last November and the attacks on Brussels – the very symbol of peaceful cooperation between European countries – reminded us of this in March this year. In our neighbourhoods we see a disturbing development. Conflicts and instability in Sahel, North Africa and the Middle East affect Europe. In the east, Russia’s international annunciation of Crimea and sustained support for the rebels in eastern Ukraine have created a new and more uncertain security policy situation. I refer here to the Foreign Minister's statement in Stortinget on 1 March this year. Faced with a more demanding security situation, the need for close cooperation in foreign and security policy with the EU and European partners is becoming increasingly important. Nordic and Nordic-Baltic cooperation in foreign and security policy has become increasingly important, as a regional complement to the European security structure — and between countries with different links with the EU and NATO. Pure national solutions are short when we are going to fight the terrorist threat or when international law and international driving rules are broken. Norway and the EU share a common value base based on democracy, human rights and rule of law. In addition, we often have very similar interests. The government therefore places emphasis on coordinating our policies and efforts with the EU, and other European partners, when it is in our interest. This gives greater weight to our common international commitment. Our reform support for the countries that have concluded association and free trade agreements with the EU is a concrete example. Furthermore, it is very important for us that Europe stands united behind the reactions to Russia's international law violations and unacceptable acts in Ukraine. Norway contributes to the European unit by ending restrictive EU measures. It is in Norwegian interest that the EU succeeds in developing its security and defence cooperation. A Norwegian contribution to the new EU foreign and security policy strategy was transmitted to High Representative Mogherini in March. The Norwegian recording has four main messages. Firstly, the EU should develop its foreign and security policy in close cooperation with good partners such as Norway. This is not least important in relations with Russia. Secondly, we believe that the European Union's Arctic policy should be based on the law of the sea. Thirdly, the EU and NATO should coordinate their policies even more closely. Concrete steps should be taken for closer coordination. Fourthly, close cooperation with Norway – as a major energy supplier to the EU and a participant in the internal market – is of great importance for European energy security. At the end of April, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and the Commission presented a communication on a comprehensive Arctic policy. The Communication proposes that the EU should focus on research and innovation in the priority areas of climate and environment, sustainable development and international cooperation. Investments and better coordination of EU funding programmes are also a priority. The Communication provides a good basis for continuing constructive dialogue with the EU in areas of common interest in favour of sustainable development in the north. A third challenge for EU cooperation is the future relationship of the United Kingdom with the EU. The forthcoming referendum in the United Kingdom on 23 June on the country's membership of the EU will be important for the EU and Europe, and therefore also for Norway. The result will affect the direction and weight of EU cooperation in the future. The debate on the referendum is part of a broader discussion in the EU on EU development and reflects an internal disagreement between Member States in key policy areas. I am not going to go into the details of the British EU debate and debate on the EU side, but let me point to some major features affecting Norway. It is in Norwegian interest that the United Kingdom continues to be a member of the EU. The United Kingdom is an important partner, both for the rest of the EU and for Norway. Without the United Kingdom, the EU will lose its second most populous country and its second largest economy. According to the OECD, a discharge could reduce the United Kingdom’s GDP by 3.3 pst. by 2020, while the loss for the other EU countries is estimated at around 1 pst. GDP. Norway and the United Kingdom share many views on economic issues and the internal market. The United Kingdom is an important driver of the development of the internal market, which is also an advantage for Norway. With Europe’s major global competitiveness challenges, there is a need for actors such as the United Kingdom who are pushing for economic reform in the EU. The United Kingdom is a significant defence power and an important player in foreign and security policy, both in Europe and globally. It is therefore important for the development of, and direction in, the EU’s foreign and security policy and for EU cooperation with NATO. Norway is also affected in this field. The agreement between the United Kingdom and the rest of the EU of 19 February on adjustments in the country’s relationship with the EU appears to be balanced. On the Norwegian side, we will assess the implications it can have for the EEA Agreement, including with regard to child-rescue export regulations. Norway will be affected regardless of its outcome. It is therefore important to have an active and clear commitment to safeguard Norwegian interests in the wake of the British referendum. However, I would like to stress that the United Kingdom will remain a close partner and ally for Norway in the future, regardless of the outcome of the referendum on 23 June. Employment-related immigration to Norway has recently been reduced, and fell by about a third after the peak in 2013. Fewer immigrants, and more journeys from the country. This needs to be seen in the context of somewhat better labour market opportunities in Europe and a slightly weaker labour market in Norway. It is important to stress that the free movement of labour from the EEA territory has contributed positively to the Norwegian economy by meeting the labour needs of Norwegian employers. At the same time, it is important to assess the impact of mobility on national welfare systems and labour exploitation. The European Commission has announced a package of measures to improve labour mobility in Europe, including: by means of measures aimed at ensuring the rights of posted workers and improving the coordination of social security systems. The mobility package has been exposed for several rounds, most recently due to negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom. The Commission has indicated that it will be presented in several stages instead of as a single package. The EU-UK agreement is relevant to the labour mobility package, in particular the proposal to allow Member States to adjust purchasing power to the level of child benefit in the country where the child lives. If, following the referendum, the United Kingdom remains in the EU, the Commission is obliged to promote a legislative proposal. Norway has provided for increased flexibility and regulatory action spaces related to social security coordination and the export of welfare benefits. We will draw final conclusions for Norwegian legislation when clarifications are available in the EU. We continue to work to strengthen international cooperation against crime and unprofessional conditions in the labour market. Norway shall participate in the new European platform to improve cooperation in the prevention and combating of undeclared work, in line with the Norwegian Labour Crime Strategy of January 2015. Enhanced cooperation with other European countries is part of the strategy. I, along with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, have contacted countries that send many workers to Norway to expand cooperation with the supervisory authorities there. The response so far has been positive, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will follow this matter up. The EEA funds can also contribute here. A fourth challenge for Europe is the European economy and the need for change and growth. Decreases in oil prices, expansion of monetary policy and the weakening of the euro have contributed to the growth of the economy, but growth is still fragile. There are considerable variations between countries. In order to stimulate the economy and counter the risk of deflation, the European Central Bank keeps its interest rate record low and buys large amounts of bonds in the market. The hope is that the weakening of the euro area exchange rate, credit growth in the euro area and less extensive public savings policies in individual countries can help to speed up the euro area economy. The EU is also seeking new financial support through reforms and increased investment, with a particular impact in the longer term. Developments in China and other emerging economies are an important uncertainty factor for the European economy. The same applies to the impact of migration and refugee situations on the economy. There is still uncertainty about the situation in Greece. The most politically difficult reform and budgetary measures that Greece had undertaken to implement in 2015 are deferred until 2016, including the tax and pension reform. The status review of the initial phase of the stabilisation programme by credit institutions is therefore also delayed. In the wake of the financial crisis, the EU has implemented a number of reforms to improve the coordination of economic policies and strengthen the financial sector. The economic agenda includes the completion of the Banking and Capital Markets Union and better coordination and governance of economic policies. However, countries differ in their view of how far the integration of the euro area should go. From the Norwegian side, we are pleased that the EU is taking action to ensure sustainable growth, green transition and strengthen the region’s global competitiveness. And there is reason for optimism when you see all the good initiatives that the European Commission's 2016 work programme is making to lift the European economy. Europe is crucial both for Norwegian exports, for Norwegian investments, for Norwegian jobs abroad and for the return of knowledge. Exports to Europe alone account for three quarters of total Norwegian exports. We are now working to make our outings better equipped to promote Norwegian business in Europe. The aim is to improve the overall impact of outdoor equipment and to strengthen the efforts of the business community. We want differentiated efforts and will improve the use of instruments in different countries. The government is also highly committed to knowledge cooperation with the EU. Horizon 2020 is the EU’s major innovation and research promise, while Erasmus+ is linked to education. We will ensure the competitiveness of the future through research, innovation and education. Heavy Norwegian participation in European research, innovation and education cooperation is part of this effort. We are working to increase the proportion of EU funds going back to Norwegian research, innovation and education environments. Foreign stations shall be connected more closely to the work of the mobilisation in Horizon 2020. The major European countries, such as Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Spain, with large, mature innovation markets, are very important for Norwegian value creation. Stations contribute to the long-term strengthening of contact areas between knowledge environments, clusters and enterprises in Norway and countries in Europe. Our common economic challenges also create a new interest in closer Nordic cooperation. Not only Norway is in a difficult transition. Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland are also working to strengthen their competitiveness through increased efforts in knowledge and research, innovation and green transformation. Through our pan-European legislation, our participation in the internal market and EU research programmes, the Nordic economies complement each other in a European framework. Through targeted cooperation, we will be even stronger to further develop the Nordic region among the most competitive regions in Europe. An EU-US agreement on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership – the so-called TTIP Agreement – can have a major impact on the European economy and on Norway. According to the parties, progress has been made in a number of areas. The Parties shall, inter alia: have agreed on the elimination of most of the toll lines. Negotiations on the most sensitive toll lines remain, and these are expected to be clarified only towards the end of the process. A further round of negotiations has been announced before the summer. The parties have expressed an ambition to close the negotiations in the current year, but this timetable is uncertain. First, the current US administration shall ensure the approval of the Trans-Pacific Partnership – the so-called TPP Agreement – in Congress, where it encounters considerable resistance. If the target of a TTIP result in 2016 fails, the time perspective is likely to be long-term, as it will take time before a new administration in the United States will be in place and is ready to decide on further negotiations. The Declaration of the Nordic Prime Minister meeting in Washington on 13 May highlighted the importance of the TTIP and the need to strengthen trade and investment between the United States, Norway and Iceland. The government has decided to launch an external investigation of the impact on Norway of the TTIP and possible Norwegian road choices. It's the NUPI that's been commissioned, in cooperation with other research institutions. The report is intended to be completed during the harvest. The European System of Financial Supervision was established in the wake of the financial crisis. It has been important for Norway to link itself to supervision in order to ensure access to a coherent internal market in this area as well. The work on designing EEA adaptations to the European System of Financial Supervisors has been demanding, technically complex and time-consuming. On 15 April the Government put forward a proposal that the Storting should consent to Norwegian participation in EEA Committee decisions on the legal acts establishing the European System of Financial Supervisors and some other legal acts. The drafts contain concrete adaptations to EU legal acts in line with the agreement on the principles of EEA adaptations to the EU system of financial supervision. The draft EEA Committee decisions involve the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of EU legislation establishing the European System of Financial Supervisors. As of 15 March 2016, following the establishment of the European System of Financial Supervisors, the EU has adopted some 180 EEA-relevant acts in the field of financial markets. Most of these new acts contain provisions based on the European Supervisory Regulations and the ESRB Regulation, the European Systemic Risk Board. Therefore, inclusion in the EEA Agreement has been pending until the EEA adaptation to the EU system of financial supervision has been clarified. The main purpose of incorporating the legislation covered by those EEA Committee decisions into the EEA Agreement is to include new EEA-relevant EU financial market acts in the EEA Agreement. This is important in order to achieve the objectives of the EEA Agreement through the free movement of services and in order to facilitate the maintenance of regulation of the Norwegian financial industry in line with the regulation of the financial industry in the EU Member States. This will help ensure access for the Norwegian financial industry to the entire EEA market and access to the Norwegian market for financial service providers in other EEA countries. The inclusion of the legal acts establishing the European System of Financial Supervisors will also facilitate the participation of the Norwegian Financial Supervisors in the cooperation of the European System of Financial Supervisors, together with the financial supervision of the EU Member States. Last year the Commission presented its strategy for the development of a digital internal market. The aim is that businesses and individuals should be able to interact easily and efficiently across borders in a digital way – and not just with physical goods. The government shares the belief that a well-functioning digital internal market can contribute to growth and employment. Norway is already a long way ahead here, and we are doing a great deal of work on further digital transformation. We follow up on the 16 initiatives announced by the strategy and have conducted consultations in a variety of areas, including cross-border parcel delivery, audiovisual media services and platforms. We have also developed a comprehensive consultation exercise on the use of so-called digital platforms and contributed to a common Nordic input on further reform of electronic communications legislation. We also follow work on the revision of copyright and the new EU eGovernment Action Plan. Furthermore, we have started to prepare the EEA integration and national implementation of the new EU Data Protection Regulation, which was adopted in the EU in April. The EU Digital Single Market Strategy is an important theme of the Digital Agenda for Norway — ICT for a simpler everyday life and increased productivity, presented in April this year. In addition, the digital everyday life of the future was the theme of the Prime Minister’s transition conference on 10 May. Migration is not just about growth, but about the need for green growth. Norway and the EU will go ahead here. The EU has therefore welcomed Norway’s intention to jointly meet our climate objectives. This was formally confirmed at the EU Environment Council in September. Through the EEA Agreement, we have been participating in the EU climate quota system since 2008. In a joint agreement with the EU on the achievement of climate objectives, Norway will also have to deal with non-quota sector legislation, including the effort-sharing decision and forest and other land-use legislation. In practice, Norwegian compliance with these codes is much of the main content of the joint compliance agreement. The Commission's proposal for implementing legislation is expected to be submitted in July of this year. This also includes the EU Member States’ targets for the non-quota sector. The government is working towards the setting of Norway’s targets on the same basis as for EU countries and, as far as possible, in parallel with them. I would like to stress that there are not talks between Norway and the EU that take time, but the EU's internal processes. An agreement between Norway and the EU is expected only in 2017/2018 after the final adoption of EU implementing legislation and we know the content of the rules we will also have to follow. The government is actively contributing to EU legislative development and is concerned with early impact. There will hardly be any room for amending the Norwegian legislation after it has been adopted by the EU. Norway participates in the expert groups of the European Commission and in the Green Growth Group, a group of friends with ambitious EU countries. Our work in the Green Growth Group has given Norway an additional opportunity to interact with other EU Member States. The Nordic countries have high ambitions in climate policy and have many economic and geographical common features. We have cooperated on global conditions, such as climate finance, and have also benefited greatly from enhanced Nordic cooperation on joint compliance with climate objectives. 2016 is referred to as the year of delivery for the EU Energy Union. The Energy Union affects us. Several initiatives involve legislation, and the EEA-relevant acts will directly affect us through the EEA Agreement. The Energy Union will also affect us through the development of the European energy market – our largest export market for energy. As a result, the government is following closely the development of the Energy Union and is continuously taking Norwegian views. We are therefore pleased that we have been given the opportunity to second a Norwegian climate and energy expert to the Slovak EU Presidency for the autumn. This can give us unique access to the EU's work on the Energy Union, and it shows that the EU wants Norwegian contributions to the process. In February, the Commission presented a so-called winter package — a collection of different initiatives related to energy security, especially for gas. These proposals could potentially have a significant impact on Norwegian gas exports. It is therefore positive that the Commission underlined the continued role of the gas in European energy mix. The government is also working to ensure that the commitment to CO2 management must be an important part of the EU's further priorities under the Energy Union. In the future, new initiatives are expected, including: on renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement, a new energy union management system and energy use in the transport sector. Norway has conducted consultations with the Commission in a number of consultations related to the development of the Energy Union, most recently at the end of April when we recorded Norwegian views on the new Energy Union governance system. The development of the Energy Union affects our entire energy sector. The government's message to the EU is that Norway wants close cooperation and partnership with the EU in the field of energy. At the same time, we take into account that in Norwegian energy policy we can have interests other than the EU. The government is involved in integrating the EU's third energy market package into the EEA Agreement. The EFTA countries have had close dialogue with the European Commission on EEA adaptations and decisions to include the package in the EEA Agreement. Work is being carried out, among others: with an adaptation text which ensures the participation of EFTA countries in the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, Acer. Consent proposal on the inclusion of the package into the EEA and necessary legislative changes resulting from the package will be promoted for Stortinget. In the climate and energy field, too, the government is concerned that we are exploiting the opportunities for enhanced Nordic cooperation towards the EU. This is clearly signaled in the energy message that the government presented in April. At the informal EU Energy Ministerial meeting in Amsterdam on 11 April, the Minister for Oil and Energy and his Nordic colleagues presented a detailed joint position paper on the further development of the energy market in Europe. This gives Nordic views greater weight. We put in place a good deal for market access for fish last summer. The agreement provides for new duty-free quotas for fillet and processed products such as frozen mackerel and fresh herring and provides for increased processing in Norway. The quota for spice and vinegar increases by 50 p.m. and a contractual period of seven years increases the predictability of the fishing industry. Allowances to be available from 1 May 2014 until the provisional entry into force of the Agreement will not be lost, but will be allocated over the remaining contractual period. Negotiations with the EU on new EEA funds took a long time, but we are pleased that the agreements were finally signed on 3 May this year. An agreement on the ratification of the negotiated agreements was forwarded to the Stortinget on 11 May and the Government hopes that it will be able to deal with it before the Stortinget takes a summer holiday. The EEA funds are a unique tool for cooperation between Norway and the recipient countries of the EU and a very important part of the government’s European policy. We are now working intensively to prepare the new schemes for the period 2014-2021. As previously explained to the Storting, the EEA funds are targeted at five main areas, three of which are given special strategic priority by the government: innovation, research, education and competitiveness environment, energy, climate and low-carbon economy justice and home affairs, including refugee and migration measures; In addition, support is provided for: social inclusion, youth employment and poverty reduction culture, civil society, good governance, fundamental rights and freedoms In all the main areas, 23 programme areas have been developed in cooperation with the departments concerned. Two new funds will also be set up: one for action against youth unemployment and one for regional cooperation. A total of 100 million will be used. the euro for these two funds. Own resources will be provided under the mechanism to strengthen bilateral cooperation between Norway and all beneficiary countries. The decent labour fund continues to be the same as the current system. Proposals for new legislation and for the content of the programmes will be the subject of consultations at the end of May. We have had informal contact with the recipient countries and are ready to start formal negotiations with all the recipient countries now that the signature has taken place. I want to keep Stortinget informed about both the process and the results of the negotiations. Negotiations on trade in agricultural products, known as Article 19 negotiations, began last February. So far, two rounds of negotiations have been carried out, the last in April of this year. The EU is now consulting its Member States. There is no agreed time for the next round of negotiations. For the sake of negotiation, I cannot go into the substance of the negotiations. The bodies of the majority will be kept informed in the course of the further negotiation process and the agreement will be concluded subject to the consent of the majority. The Government considers that it is important that Norway be able to participate fully in the networks that are central to achieving the most efficient functioning of the EEA. The government is therefore working towards the full development of cooperation between EU national competition authorities to cover EFTA countries. Competition supervision cannot cooperate with e.g. the Swedish supervision of the investigation of cross-border cartels, as may be the case in Sweden and Denmark. The Government will therefore eliminate these differences in the enforcement of EU-EFTA competition rules. It is important to put pressure on this now, as cooperation between national supervisory authorities is developing further in the EU. We want something about our relationship with Europe. The government’s priorities in European policy are well in line with the EU’s own priorities. And they fit well with our Nordic cooperation priorities. That's a good starting point for our work. The need for cooperation and cohesion in Europe is evident. Pure national solutions are short when we are about to deal with the increase in the number of refugees and migrants, when we are about to face the threat of terrorism, when we are about to face common rules in foreign and security policy, and when we are about to make green transition. Cohesion makes Europe strong. Cooperation makes Europe effective. Therefore, the trends in fragmentation that we see between European countries are a major challenge. I believe that we can reverse this development, but it requires everyone to join the load, and that we implement measures that deliver results. Common democratic values and principles of the rule of law and fundamental rights govern our commitment. Cooperation with European countries and institutions is our main instrument, and Nordic cooperation stands in a special position here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e360	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e374	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e381	One of the things this government went to choice was to simplify, improve and renew Norway, and now the government is delivering again. The A Facility is a cross-political and good arrangement. A common system for reporting employment and income data by employers to the tax administration, the Employment and Welfare Act and the Central Statistical Office was established. This was a great simplification. One of the keys was to prevent double reporting to different agencies. It is good for employers, and it has also led to more efficiency and better response in the agencies as well as improved public services. Simplification, improvement and renewal – it is also possible to continue with the a-system, which was a major simplification in its time. In the Government's proposal, the Employment and Welfare Act provides inter alia: access to information in relation to all the statutory social security schemes. With new electronic solutions, we also get new opportunities. The proposal from the government today suggests that in the future a simulation of future performance can be obtained through Nav's websites. The vast majority of the hearing bodies are in favour of this proposal. Among other things, NTL Nav writes in their hearing opinion that they see it as a necessary step in order to carry out a better and more exact procedure in the establishment. I am pleased to note that the proposals are accepted. So I just want to say that we're not going to vote for the proposals of the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV. When you read them, it might immediately look a little strange, and that's why I'm going to explain why. The proposals are essentially the same, and what is happening here is that the Labour and Welfare Act will re-use an electronic solution developed in cooperation with the Foreign Administration and the Tax Act, and the system needs to be developed in the first half of 2017. This is also answered in a letter from the Council of State to Stortinget. We are informed of that work and know what is going on there, and therefore we will also vote against these proposals. But I am pleased to note that the proposals for simplification in the 'A' scheme are being endorsed by an overall increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e392	The rapporteur has made good progress on the matter, which contains a number of proposals for amendments to the A Information Act supported by the Workers' Party. The law itself provides access to information on employment and income relationships reported by employers. In the case we are dealing with today, changes are proposed that will facilitate and improve the quality of the work of the Recovery Centre. It is an advantage both for those who owe money, for those who contribute information, and for the Debt Collection Agency itself. It is also proposed that the State of Labour and Welfare should have access to the information contained in the a scheme in its management of benefits under laws other than the Law on Social Security and in the investigation and production of statistics. For the purpose of levying contributions, the information reported by employers should also be used for voluntary contribution schemes. Otherwise, the case contains proposals for simplification by bringing together a number of provisions currently governed by different laws in one place and some clarifications designed to prevent double penalties in cases of non-compliance with the obligation to provide information. In the long term, it will also be possible to improve the service to users of the Employment and Welfare Services by providing simulations of future benefits via Nav.no. However, it depends on further progress in the ICT modernisation project, which is not a topic today, but is under consideration in the Committee. The minority proposals in the case will be addressed and explained by the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen. I would just like to make a brief remark that they are also linked to ICT modernisation in Nav. The Workers' Party's support for the proposals today is based on the fact that they will not trigger additional costs, as confirmed by the Council of State in its response to the Committee on Prop. 67 S on ICT modernisation. So we're going to get back to that. A last point, but not entirely immaterial, is privacy considerations when handling so many information on the income and social benefits of individuals. It is clarified that data protection normally applies also in the case of statistical production. The right of access is guaranteed, and it's actually a matter of course, but it's a good thing to get established. The Data Protection Authority has also had no objection to the proposals in the case. So the Labour Party agrees with all the proposals that are being made in the proposal. Everyone's for simplification. However, when we have chosen to stand outside the majority comment that underlines the need for more effective procedures, easier reporting for employers and fewer fault payments, it is not because we disagree with that, but it is due to the history of the case. This comment is formulated, it underscores the fact that if the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left had got their will through the last period, we would not have had this matter dealt with here today. Today's a-information law, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, was promoted by the red-green government in the previous period and thus adopted by the then majority against the votes of today's majority parties, except the Christian People's Party. Today's majority parties spoke out in principle enough support that time, but they proposed to postpone the whole amendment, and when they did not get a majority for it, they voted against it. Today's case shows with all clarity that they were wrong. In our minority comment, we point out that the a-information law, when promoted by the red-green government, was one of several measures in a larger programme to reduce the cost to industry of complying with laws and regulations. Status just before the 2013 elections showed that we were on track. Of a historical measure of simplifications to a value of 10 billion. NOK, was already 5 billion. kr reached as provided. The A-information law, as we adopted it against the votes of the minority then, would only save 600 million kroner. for employers. In fact, we lack a similar commitment from the current government. When the majority in this case is so clear about the need for more efficient processing, it might be interesting to know what they actually have in mind collectively. Of course, today's case is one example of that, but only one. And it couldn't have been treated in the Storting today, if the Right, the Advance Party and the Left had got what they wanted in 2012. Then we had no a-information law to promote improvements in. At the end of the day, just a little comment. The pluralities of the committee remind me in this matter a little bit of Peer Gynt when, in the third act, the first stage, he says the following: «Yes, think it; wish it; would it; – – but do it! No, I don't understand!'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e418	First, I would like to endorse the clarification given by the representative Christoffersen that the red-green government has laid the basis for what we are dealing with today, because the purpose of the a-scheme is to simplify the reporting of employment and income by employers. The Government proposes amendments to the A-Information Act, so that the Working and Welfare Act will have access to information covering all the statutory arrangements administered by the Agency. And as many people have been in it, there has been a great deal of excitement about it. I also notice that one of the important trade unions in Nav, namely the NTL, gives its very strong support to the proposal. The central party supports the government's proposal. In 2011, the red-green government launched a historic decision to reduce business costs associated with complying with 10 billion laws and regulations. kr by 2015. Status on 21 August 2013 showed that the 5 billion target. kr was reached. Law on the reporting by employers of employment and income relationships, etc., the A-Information Act, was one of the measures, and it was estimated to bring about a savings of approximately 600 million. kr. We will require estimates of the benefits of further simplifications in line with the objectives of the red-green government. It is necessary to report back to Storting on the impact of the proposed measures. In the National Audit Office's report on the annual audit and control for the financial year 2014, under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs section. 3.3. Failure of the State of Labour and Welfare to prevent and detect fraud involving sick pay is the following: ‘The Court of Auditors notes that two years after the legislative decision’, which provided for the electronic mass collection of data from several registers, ‘the Ministry has still not clarified whether the seat of employment and welfare is authorised to collect mass information on IP addresses.’ This found the Riksrevision critical when their report was completed on 21 October last year. It is very unfortunate that the Bill of the Storting, where the purpose of the law decision was to address more effectively the abuse of welfare schemes, and where it was the Ministry that asked the Stortingen for the necessary legal support to do so, does not, however, lead to the home being put into service. The State of Employment and Welfare reported on 29 September last year that more social security fraud had never been reported than in 2015. It is very important for the general confidence in our welfare systems that abuse of welfare schemes is prevented and as far as possible prevented. When social security fraud is detected, unfair money shall be repaid and serious facts reported. Cooperation between the State of Labour and Welfare and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs in order to ensure technical solutions for the exchange of information has not been prioritised by the Government. This needs to be corrected as soon as possible. There are a lot of people who are concerned about the fight against social security fraud. This is important to be completed in order to counteract and detect social security fraud. The government must now ensure faster and safer progress in this work, and that is the background for the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV to have put forward two proposals, which I will deal with, where the first one reads: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the Labour and Welfare Act uses the opportunities for more effective work against social security fraud in line with the changes in the Social Security Act in spring 2013.’ The second proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to keep the size informed of progress in the implementation of a technical solution for the exchange of information between the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the State of Labour and Welfare.’ It is a little special that the government parties cannot give their support to two so modest and cautious proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e453	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e456	From 1 January 2015, the A-Information Act established a new common system for reporting employment and income data by employers to the tax administration, the Labour and Welfare Act and the Central Statistical Agency, the so-called A-System. The purpose of the A scheme, which has been discussed by several parties, has been primarily to simplify the reporting of employers by avoiding the need for employers to provide the same information to several agencies. The scheme also contributes to increased efficiency and better response in the public sector and to better public services. The most up-to-date information on the working and income conditions of users reduces the risk of prolonged processing and mispayments in the Working and Welfare Session. Access to monthly data also contributes to the efficient and correct management of benefits. The State of Employment and Welfare currently has access to the information provided by the A Scheme in the context of the management of benefits under the Swedish Social Security Act and the management of the Register of Employers and Employees. The proposal in the proposal implies that access by the State of Labour and Welfare shall include information relating to the management of all benefits administered by the Eta, such as child benefit, cash support, supplementary social benefits, the remuneration guarantee scheme and contractual pension. Furthermore, information shall be made available to the establishment and collection of maintenance contributions under the Child Protection Act, the Child Protection Act, the Marriage Act and for the investigation and production of statistics. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and of the Centre call for estimates of the benefits of further simplifications and duly ask the Government to report back to the Stortinge on the impact of the proposed measures. The extension of access to the a mechanism will result in additional time savings for employers by no longer requiring direct contact with them in the management of the areas currently included in the access. This is information that needs to be obtained from employers in this case, and the Ministry has not considered it appropriate to request such reporting from employers. The proposal will also provide better opportunities for the effective management of the benefits it administers. However, this will primarily give rise to gains in terms of quality in administration, which benefit both users and the establishment, but which are difficult to quantify. To the proposals of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, I would like to say: As demonstrated by former State Council Robert Eriksson’s response to the Riksrevision’s comments and recommendations in letter of 8 September 2015, an online solution for the collection of data from the foreign authorities will require the organisation of system solutions by both the foreign authorities and the Working and Welfare Act. As the rapporteur of the case pointed out, in cooperation with the tax department, the Foreign Administration has now developed an electronic solution to share information on individuals' stays in Norway, i.e. whether or not a foreign citizen has a legal residence in Norway. The State of employment and welfare will re-use this solution and plan to make the necessary system development in the first half of 2017 so that information on specific persons can be obtained electronically. In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of putting these legislative changes in place so that government and employers can maximise the efficiency gains of the A scheme, and I am therefore pleased with the support given by the Stortinget today to the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e486	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e489	As the rapporteur said relatively enthusiastically, he said that the government is simplifying, improving, renewing and delivering and taking the present case to income for it. But now the Council of State says in its statement that she has not considered it appropriate to measure the result of the changes in law that we are adopting today, at least not in dollars and cents. What I'm asking is how the Council of States has intended to see whether today's changes in the law have the intended effect of efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e496	As everyone who has spoken here today has been involved, the whole scheme involves a simplification for employers. The previous changes have made it possible to report the same information in several places, both double and triple. With the changes we are now proposing, you will not be able to contact employers in order to obtain that information because you are extending the scope of action to the Employment and Welfare Act. It is clear that employers can, of course, be asked to report this, but then there is a time-use that is imposed on employers. We have not seen it appropriate, all the time we are absolutely sure that this will contribute to a simplification for employers, as well as, of course, a simplification for the establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e501	We just have to take note that one does not want to produce results from the proposals that you yourself promote for Stortinget, but manages with the assumption that it will have the expected effect. Then I want to ask a question about the changes that were made to the a-information law in June 2012. At that time, it was actually estimated that the new law would provide savings of 600 million. kr for business. Can the State Council respond to the achievement of this objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e509	As far as I could see in the documents I have been presented, it was 600 million. kr what was the calculation of the savings. As far as I understand, that's what you've saved. But I have to make sure of that and possibly come back to Stortinget with it. But as far as I understand, that's what saving is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e514	Then we look forward to that feedback. Then I just wondered: was it to get an estimate of the 600 million. which was so burdensome for employers that the government decided it would not continue to measure results in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e521	The calculations on how much to save were, as far as I know, done by the previous government. How it was calculated, I don't know. But I have no reason to doubt the calculations that were made then. I would rather come back to Stortinget to confirm whether the estimate from the previous government turns out to be voting or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e526	I look forward to it. What I then wonder about is how the Council of State has intended to answer the question of whether one has achieved those savings without obtaining information from the employer. Had it not been possible to obtain information about today's legislative changes in the same sling?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e531	What calculations the previous government made, I have to investigate and come back to. But I've seen that there have been calculations on it, and I have no reason to doubt that those calculations are correct. It is fully possible to send forms to all employers and ask for an assessment from them of how much time they spend on this or not. However, in the ‘Simplification and Improvement’ section, it has not been considered necessary, although it is of course possible to oblige employers to spend time reporting on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e538	Just a little clarification: the Council of State refers all the time to the calculations made by the previous government. However, the Council of State must also obtain new information in order to respond to The Storting on the 600 million savings target. kr has actually been reached. You can't just rely on the calculations made in 2012. You actually have to have information about what's real today. It is because I do not fully understand that the Council of State cannot at the same time obtain information about the changes we are making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e543	As far as I understand the representative Christoffersen, she asks to confirm that previous calculations have proved to be correct. As far as I know, they are. But – as I have said in previous answers – what calculations were made then, and what calculations have been made in retrospect to ensure their quality, I have to come back to Stortinget with. I do not know what calculations were made then, how they were obtained and to what extent they have been shown to vote. However, in relation to the proposition we are dealing with today, we have said that we do not consider it appropriate to oblige employers to report on this. We believe that this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e550	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e564	Norway is a port of rich fishing resources. Up towards 90 pst. of the resources we harvest, we share with other countries. It is the management of these resources that is the theme of the annual fisheries agreements. The agreements shall ensure that the harvesting of fish stocks is sustainable. They are therefore based on independent scientific advice on allowances and management measures and contain binding assumptions on the allocation of allowances, management measures and control cooperation. There are three overall objectives underpinning Norway's participation in the various negotiation processes and in the international forums for resource management: promoting the sustainable management of living marine resources, based on the best available scientific knowledge and an ecosystem-based approach, to ensure a fair share of Norway in the allocation of allowances for common regulated stocks to ensure adequate control and enforcement within the administrative regimes in which Norway participates; The fisheries agreements are based on long-term management work, which provides the basis for us today to harvest from robust fish stocks and engage in economic activity in our marine areas. International cooperation is essential for successful and sustainable fisheries management and for combating fishing crime and non-regulated fishing. Sustainable harvesting of fishing resources requires regulation of the total fishing activity and control of actual fishing. There is no doubt that this is challenging and requires a high level of international cooperation, as fishing vessels operate in the jurisdictional areas of many different countries — including in open sea areas. Illegal fishing is a serious threat to fishing resources and there is therefore good reason to stress the importance of international control cooperation. Cooperation plays a crucial role in further efforts to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and fishing crime. I would also like to highlight Norway's important work in regional fisheries organisations and in the United Nations, because decisions taken here have an impact on our national fisheries. Through this work Norway allows several other countries to fish different species in the Norwegian economic zone, based on common quotas with mutual access. This also provides room for exchange quotas, which show that Norwegian fishermen have a total of significant fishing activity in the zones of other countries, which creates values for vessels and fishermen, but also for reception facilities and other activities along our coast – and not least for the Norwegian economy. The Committee wishes to present the scientific basis for the agreements. Both the national administration and the annual negotiations conducted by Norway with other countries are largely based on the Scientific Councils of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES. The marine research institute contributes large resources in stock assessment and advice activities at international and national level. The Committee points out that too many of the populations are largely good at doing so. In the agreement with Russia, the cod quota has continued at the same level as in 2015 and the quota has increased by 9 pst. since 2015. Due to low spawning populations, it is certainly not possible to open up commercial pilot fishing in the Barents Sea in 2016. Norway and the EU share a joint responsibility to manage fishing resources in the North Sea. In the 2016 allowance agreement, the allowances for cod, hake and herring have been increased, while there are slight changes in the other allowances. Of the common stocks in the North Sea, herring and herring have the highest commercial value for Norway. Norway has 29 pst. of the herring quota and 52 pst. of the quota. In 2014, Norway, the EU, Iceland and Russia concluded a four-party agreement with a set-aside for the Faeroe Islands based on their traditional part of the herring. The Committee notes that no corresponding four-party agreement has been concluded for either 2015 or 2016. There is reason to point out that it is hoped that the work to get an agreement in place by 2017 will succeed. So of the marine resources we're harvesting, we're dividing by approximately. 90 pst. with other countries. When we know that a total catch value of the fisheries agreements Norway signed with other countries in 2015 was about 37 billion. kr, one-third of which is for Norway, we understand the great value of the fisheries agreements. Then we have not included the value creation that happens with further processing and other derived activities of the fisheries. There is a significant responsibility for reaching good and forward-looking agreements to take care of Norwegian interests, economic and other ways, related to the fisheries agreement. Otherwise, I refer you to the vote by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e595	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e609	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e625	State ownership of selected enterprises is a good thing for society and important for the business community in Norway. For the Christian People's Party, it has been, and will remain, an important point that the state should retain ownership of selected companies. It is important for Norway, and it gives companies a large and long-term owner that allows the companies concerned to develop. State ownership is therefore a mutual benefit for both society and companies. But the state is also an owner equal to other owners; the state has claims and expectations of companies in which they have ownership, in line with private owners. And the state must be able to make demands in the same way as other owners that are proportionate to their holdings, and could expect companies to listen to them. In recent times, we have witnessed many cases where there is great reason to ask questions about whether state-owned companies have understood the expectations of the owners for business management. Telenor and corruption charges in Uzbekistan, Statoil and corruption charges in Angola, Hydro and open conditions in Tajikistan and the last DNB, which through its subsidiary have contributed to tax evasion, are well known through Panama Papers. Going further back in time, even more examples could have been mentioned. It must be appropriate to ask questions as to whether these companies' board of directors and their management have understood the will of their largest owner. In any case, it must be said that if the understanding is present, compliance is at best weak. This gives all cause for concern, because the country's expectations that owner should have been well known to all those involved in corporate governance. In 2015 we discussed Report. St. 27 for 2013–2014, A diverse and valuable ownership. This call for proposals is what forms the basis for state ownership and its exercise. This is mandatory reading for all those involved in something of state ownership, and especially for companies with the largest ownership of the state, because here it is well explained what expectations the State has for its companies. The country's ten principles of good ownership are central to this Communication and it is appropriate to mention Principle 2 and Principle 10. Principle 2 reads as follows: «It shall be transparent in relation to the exercise of ownership by the State and the activities of the company.» Principle 10 reads: ‘The company shall work intently to discharge its social responsibility.’ This is the Christian People's Party entirely in agreement, and the whole Storting has given its support to this. There is also no reason to doubt that the Council of State has the same opinion, for the Council of State said in the debate on this big message: ‘The government’s ownership message further develops state ownership policy. We reinforce the expectations of the state in the area of social responsibility in general, and expectations of climate and environment and work towards corruption and transparency in particular.’ Yes, the government reinforced the expectations of the state as its owner, and yes, we have heard what the council has done through various meetings it has been referred to in the media. But with respect to reporting, it is said that this has not given the desired results, seen in the light of the future. In the big news, the concept of social responsibility is deepened in a separate subchapter. It says: «Traditionally, the concept has been intended to cover matters beyond compliance with the laws and regulations.» All Norwegian companies should assume social responsibility, regardless of whether they are private or public owned, and whether they are active in Norway or in other countries. Here it's right to stop a little bit. Social responsibility is something more than just following rules. Social responsibility is about seeing itself as part of society and having a behavior that builds society. It's about not doing what's destructive, even though it might not be illegal, and it's about seeing the larger picture. The time is therefore ripe to start talking about the extended social responsibility that comes with the benefit of having the state as a long-term owner. We have zero tolerance for corruption. Nevertheless, we see that many of the cases in question go on just this. It's worrying. Repeated cases of corruption and corruption prosecutions call for questions as to whether the preparation of a company is good enough before it decides to go ashore. But here I want to take a little stop. Why do companies go into countries that have words to be influenced by corruption? The main purpose of this example is to demonstrate through the power of the example that business can be carried on without being involved in corruption, while at the same time being able to engage in business. But then it is essential that good preparations are made, and not least that one at all stages be able to comply with the good preparations and carry this out throughout the business. For how companies with the state as the largest owner conduct their business, Norway returns. It is well known that these companies own the country in their backs, and it is clear that there is a reputational risk for Norway internationally when these companies work in a way that is in stark contrast to the values Norway wants to promote internationally. Therefore, companies have not only a social responsibility but also an extended social responsibility, which involves operating in a way that is not only within current laws and regulations but also in line with Norwegian values and with what is morally accepted in Norwegian society. The State shall have no rights other than those of the other shareholders. Nor shall the State engage in corporate contacts by means other than other shareholders — only to underline it. But that doesn't mean the state has to be passive. The State must, in the same way as other owners, keep in constant contact with its controllers and ensure that operations comply with the owner's expectations and wishes. And the state has to work through its power of ownership in order for the general meetings to choose boards that understand the expectations of their owners of the operation and loyally follow this up with their owners. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has a separate department that works with state ownership – the ownership department. In addition, the Council of State meets with governors and governors. It may seem that the companies do little to follow up the signals given when it comes to ethical conduct and social responsibility. Questions can be asked whether the State Council has the means available to it in the contact with the owner. Why is it that there is media that exposes business conduct that goes beyond law and law, or is immoral, and not the ownership department? And why doesn't this come out in meetings with the department, but is it revealed in the media? It is worrying that the contact with the owner seems so weak that it is not suitable to give real insight into how the companies operate. Furthermore, it is at least equally worrying that the boards do not inform their owner of aspects of the business that go beyond the expectations of the owner. And it's equally worrying that the boards don't take the signals from the owner back to the companies. There is no doubt that the Board of Directors is responsible for the operation of the company, even in the area of social responsibility, and that the activities are governed by laws and regulations. The question that should then be asked, which has now been addressed to the Council of State, is whether the means are available to identify critical issues and to ensure that the will of the dominant owner is given its place in the strategy of the company, whether there is sufficient attention, whether there is sufficient will and whether there is sufficient resources available for the tasks to be undertaken. The Christian People's Party believes that state ownership in selected companies is important for both national and commercial reasons. Therefore, it is important that the ownership dialogue works as it should. I look forward to hearing the Council of State's replies and also the rest of this inter-pelling debate, for this is an important and topical debate, which is needed in order to get the perspective straight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e679	First of all, thank the representative for addressing a very important topic. The representative indicates that serious circumstances have been identified in several state-owned companies, related to corruption and suspicion of corruption. The representative shall show, inter alia: to the arm's length principle and ask whether the instruments of the State that owns are sufficient to ensure responsible state ownership management. Let me be very clear: the state does not accept any form of corruption. Corruption is illegal and shall then be managed. Let me say a little bit about the frames of state ownership. There is a broad consensus on the Storting on how the State should exercise its ownership. The treatment of the latest ownership notifications shows that the broad consensus has been in force over several large-scale periods, and this predictability is a strength of the Norwegian state ownership. The manner in which the State in which the holding is held has an impact on the public perception and trust of Norwegian companies with State ownership – and on the Norwegian capital market. There is broad political agreement that state ownership should be exercised professionally within the framework of company law and based on generally accepted ownership principles. This means that companies in which the country’s ownership is mainly commercially motivated must operate in the same way and have the same framework conditions as private companies. This is fundamental and implies a level playing field for companies, regardless of whether the State is the owner or not. The State owns 70 companies, which are directly managed, by different departments. The ownership commits, and it imposes a great responsibility on us to manage it in the best possible way, not least when the state owns with others. The management of the company is the responsibility of the board of directors. The Management Board shall ensure the proper organisation of its activities and the supervision of day-to-day management and other activities of the company. The management board is responsible for the operation of the company and for ensuring that the company has guidelines, systems, actions and training in place. This also applies to the prevention of corruption and to the transparency of cash flows. The State which holds its interests through the general meeting and by ensuring that the companies have well-combined and competent boards which can properly manage the company. This division of roles is important when we debate these issues, and means, among other things. the owner does not understand the current business decisions taken by the company. This division of roles also means that, in the discharge of their responsibilities, the Governing Boards are able to balance which means that they do not always agree with their owner. As owner, we are also held responsible for these decisions. It is because there is a broad consensus that the model of share law is the best way to organise state ownership. However, these frameworks of state ownership do not prevent the State which owns clear expectations of the companies through the boards. When the state that owns expectations of the companies of social responsibility, it is both because we believe this contributes to safeguarding the state's shareholder values, and because we have a basic view that companies with State ownership should behave ethically well. As the owner, we have expectations that the companies are working systematically and strategically with their social responsibility and are leading in their fields. The ownership message reveals both general and specific expectations relating to several areas of social responsibility, including anti-corruption and transparency of money flows. It is the directors of the companies who are responsible for assessing how best to meet expectations and for their proper operationalisation. The work on social responsibility is expected to be anchored in the governance of companies, the active and central role of the boards, the reports of the boards in essential areas of their annual report, and the necessary development of their own competences. As an owner, the government follows up the social responsibility of the companies in the ownership dialogue. Among other things, we have quarterly meetings, annual social responsibility meetings and further follow-up where necessary. Work on corruption has been among the themes that have been regularly addressed with the companies. We are then concerned about whether companies have systems, guidelines and measures that help prevent corruption. If there are issues where there may be confusion as to whether the company's systems and actions have worked, we in the owner dialogue will seek answers to these questions and how any deviations could have occurred. It is not to investigate, which is the responsibility of the prosecution authority, but to gain sufficient insight into the work of the boards. The government's expectations of companies are also the subject of seminars The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries arranges for directors and new directors of state-owned companies. In 2014, I met with all the directors of the companies in which the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries manages the country's ownership, to pay particular attention to transparency and work on anti-corruption. The purpose of the meeting was to facilitate the sharing of experience between companies and to learn from each other. I'm going to have a corresponding meeting next month. We are constantly working to further develop the state's expectations relating to social responsibility. This is also evident in the last ownership message. There we are clear on the responsibilities of the board of directors in relation to this work and on the principle of materiality. Specific expectations related to anti-corruption work were also established. Of course, the next revision of the ownership message will consider further development of our expectations. We also still need to develop ourselves in this area in terms of our concrete ownership follow-up. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has therefore commissioned the PwC to investigate issues related to our follow-up to the ownership message's expectations of anti-corruption work. We launched a competition for such a mission last December, as part of our work to increase the systemicity of the ministry's work and from the desire to exercise our ownership in the best possible way. Among other things, we have requested: overview of the roles and responsibilities of the board of directors in the legal framework of good practice for corporate prevention of corruption and transparency of financial flows that we can use in the ownership role to assess how, in the role of the owner, we can contribute to the good development of companies in relevant areas, thus helping to secure and further develop the values of the company; My assessment is that the State that owns has the means to exercise its ownership in a predictable and professional manner. But we have to work on this all the time, and of course we always have to aim to get even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e731	Thanks for the answer. Yes, it is good to know and no surprise that you do not accept corruption. It is good that there is a great deal of agreement on how the state should operate its ownership, and that the broad consensus has passed over a long time, because we are, as the Council of State said, inside 70 companies, and there are great values to be handled. I do not intend to change the division of roles between the board, management or where the state has direct influence through the general meeting and competence of the boards. That, I believe, is a good division of roles that we must maintain. But it is true that despite the fact that we have a government council and a government that has taken a more active approach, the media reveals things that are not compatible with state principles of good ownership. And it's worth commenting that when the Council of State says that we have expectations that one should lead in its areas, among other things. under social responsibility, what has been revealed, including this last one, can't be said to be something that we want to be leading, to say it nicely. Ownership shall ensure the values and attitudes of the owner and shall be reflected in the management and management of the company. It is important for the Christian People's Party. It is good to have asked for an investigation – which is now under way – to see if we have those tools, to see if we can get better, as the Council of State concluded. Then my question is, when can we, as the owner, who is within 70 companies, see the results of such an investigation, and when will the companies possibly label new working methods from the state and the government in order to be the leader in the areas we are now discussing, the extended social responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e742	As I said in my introduction, I believe this is a very important topic. That's why it's important that we discuss it, and that we're always prepared to make improvements in the way we work. It is true that we have seen many cases — too many cases — that have arisen with cause for very serious concern, and some of them have also admitted that corruption has occurred. Of course, I wish that there was information that had come about in a completely different way from what has happened. At the same time, I would like to say that in the case of a very large number of matters, this relationship is a long way back. I say that because there has been quite a massive development in this area, both in national law, in the understanding of this work by companies, and not least in the development of practices and activities to combat corruption. I'm quite sure that the meeting I'm going to have next month with the directors will have a different content than the meeting I had just two years ago, because this work has been reinforced over the years. It is true that the companies that have been involved in such matters, both Yara, who have adopted a historic fine, and Telenor, who are shareholders of a company that has received a historic fine, have made changes in their work on this. In the case of Telenor, the changes they have just made have led to much greater progress from their own system, which they are now following in a much more thorough way. So there's an evolution. Of course, it's impossible for me to say when we see a complete change, but there's continuous improvement, and that's good. I also want to say that we have expectations, that we are active – and I believe that we are – does not mean that we can guarantee that corruption does not happen. What we're concerned about is that it's being revealed that it's being notified, and that the government has an active relationship with education, to culture, to have systems to fight this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e755	Let me first of all thank the interpellant for starting – or actually continuing – an important debate. The question asked here is very topical, in the light of the events that have influenced business, especially that of state ownership, in the last few months. The Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration has since one focussed on pursuing a ownership policy that allows for both value creation and ownership diversity. We have been very clear that it is crucial for a well-functioning business that state ownership is managed in a predictable and professional way, which can also contribute to strengthening Norwegian competitiveness. Norwegian business must be based on ethical guidelines and transparency, while companies must be made up of well-functioning and competent regulators. It is absolutely central to the conditions of competition in the market and to a healthy business life that the companies in which the State is the largest owner operate under the laws and regulations laid down. State ownership must be managed responsibly and companies must work specifically to discharge their social responsibilities. In cases where it is known that there has been corruption or other illegal or cumbersome conditions, my impression is that the government has taken it most seriously. Corruption is a crime and shall not happen. State ownership shall be carried out professionally and predictablely in the framework of Norwegian company law, based on accepted ownership principles. As the government has clearly shown, responsible and good ownership management involves, among other things. to organise the ownership of the country in such a way that the different roles of the country are more clearly distinguished. Transparency around state ownership and equal treatment of shareholders are also important points in this respect. In the light of this interpellation, I will also discuss a more fundamental debate around the state as its owner. The government has been aware that private ownership should be the general rule of business, as part of strengthening Norwegian competitiveness and making value creation more market-oriented. Private investors, through their ownership, participate directly in the value creation that takes place in Norway, and are therefore an important part of creating safe jobs in Norway in the future. Several in this room have claimed that the country should be a large owner — and more than today — in parts of Norwegian business, and that an effort to increase private ownership is not a responsible ownership policy. The arguments for strengthening state ownership have been based on the idea that there is an important contribution to good and predictable industrial development in Norway, where companies with the state as their largest owner will be the leaders in the work on social responsibility in Norway and abroad. The recent unfortunate events I think are creating a paradox. The belief that ownership policy is best conducted by the public is challenged by the negative attention that has regularly been paid to state-owned companies. In this context, questions can therefore be asked about the extent to which the State is a significantly better owner of Norwegian companies than private ones. We can't get into a situation where we can think that we're making the state a more special owner than any other owner. Unfortunately, we see that as an attempt to do so. Business principles must be based. However, the greatest threat to a serious state ownership lies, not on the government’s shoulders, but on the Stortingets – and in particular on the Stortingen Control and Constitutional Committee. When the legislative assembly actively and directly interferes with the administration of the government, there is someone who has not understood this house's work area. As Marte Gerhardsen and Sverre August Christensen so eloquently wrote in a debate in Today's Business last week: "One cannot have ownership control where companies must interpret political signals from" a seminar in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. It should be absolutely fundamental. This government has managed — and continues to handle — corruption matters in a curative way. I am very pleased that the Council of State's assessment is that you have the means you think is necessary to exercise ownership in a predictable and professional way. That's also my impression. The boards of the respective companies are responsible for the day-to-day follow-up. That's the way it has to be, and it works essentially well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e778	State ownership is a good starting point. The state is the owner of a number of companies around the world. It is natural that the state also contributes its capital to Norwegian companies. The country has the opportunity to be a long-term owner. Ownership gives revenue to the community. It is my opinion that there is a great deal of agreement in the Storting that the state should be a large owner. We had a debate in Stortinget about the sale of the Kongsberg Group. I think the country is wise. The government didn't get the blank mandate to sell the Kongsberg Group that you wanted. It is a bit nice to see that afterwards the Kongsberg Group has bought the Finnish company Patria and thus bought it up indirectly in the company Nammo. So state ownership has at some point been strengthened, at the second point the government has been given the opportunity to sell itself down. Under state ownership there are in many cases what it might be natural to call snuff, or unacceptable matters. Is this an argument against state ownership? No, it's the Center Party. No, I think, because it helps these matters to be brought to the public, that we have a public debate. There is no reason to believe that there are less irregularities where there are private owners than where the state owns them. But it is important that we get that debate, and that these issues come up and forward. Is it so right that companies in which the State owns enter demanding countries where there is a risk of corruption? My clear answer is yes, it's the right of a company in which the state owns, to do so, but it has to be done in a way that makes you have clear lines of responsibility, and that companies have control. That was not the case in e.g. The VimpelCom case. The Industry Committee was in Myanmar last year and visited Telenor and Statoil and was briefed on the granting of telelicences, which is initially very demanding. It was instructive and exciting to hear how it had happened. I think that Telenor contributed positively in Myanmar, a country with political leadership that before the elections in autumn 2015 did not exactly – probably – share what we put in the concept of social responsibility. There are issues of rules, routes, principles and their follow-up. I think we have to ask the question: do we have an attitude problem among leaders – don't remember, don't know, don't understand? Are we going to demand that leaders take objective responsibility for what is happening in their organization? I also believe that the role of the Stortinge in ownership policy should be discussed. Is an overly busy pursuit of scapegoats, political guilt and gain and too little attention to future learning? There's a discussion The size should take. I also think you have a lot to go on in terms of openness. I feel that today's question is often: Can it be kept secret? Can we say that? The question should be, is there something that prevents us as a company from practicing openness? I'm glad the council says we can get better. In this case, it is quite pointless to have a competition about which government is best – whether it is the previous, the present or the future – because here there is a development over time, and there is a great deal of consensus. There is a consensus that you should have a principle of ownership management. What should lie in those principles is a broad consensus. And we agree that the Share Act should be respected. I think it's important to say: don't let any public debate about actions that these companies do meet with whether they are in line with ownership principles and good ownership management. I believe that companies must tolerate this type of debate, and I am also quite sure, unfortunately, that new things will have to be discussed in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e801	There is at least one thing I fully agree with the previous speaker in: the companies with state ownership must tolerate this type of debate, there must be openness around it. ‘Corruption is married’, said Erna Solberg. The Minister for Industry has also said that, as far as I know. The IMF has estimated global corruption costs to be 16000 billion. kr – huge amounts and many times Norway’s GDP. Corruption is a threat to the rule of law and to democracy, human rights and social justice. It is also highly distorting and affecting the very structure of our society. It undermines trust. That we have high confidence, we see Norway as one of Norway’s biggest competitive advantages. Corruption societies undermine trust, both between people and the social fabric. This is a very serious problem we are talking about. When the world is globalized, it is clear that responsibility for fighting corruption is also becoming global. That's where the debate is going to fit in today, because there are companies that are largely out in the international markets that we're talking about. So ask the interpellant if the companies have understood that. I think it's important, as the Minister of Industry said, that there has been a process here over a few years now, and where society's attention to this problem has increased dramatically. 20 years ago, said a lawyer, a good part of these costs were deducted. You don't do that today. I searched a little bit in Stortinget's papers. In 2006, the UN Convention against Corruption was adopted, which was the first global instrument against corruption. It did not come earlier than in 2003. So the world has moved very toward that corruption is destructive and subversive. We don't see that at all internationally. The United States and England, that kind of society, are really the perpetrators. Norway should also aim, as the representative Sivert Bjørnstad said, to lead the field. What we're discussing is a lot of old things that lie there, but also things that have actually revealed that there are issues about tightening up routines and stuff internally. We have to remember that in the case of Telenor, it is not Telenor who is involved in corruption, but a subsidiary. So you have to keep in mind what you're actually discussing. So ask the interpellant – I think it is very important that we have this kind of debate – whether there are sufficient instruments and whether you have the tools that are needed. Tools and instruments are legal acts, ownership follow-up and ownership notification, all of them. I am quite sure that the Norwegian legislation will develop further. Among other things, several representatives from the Right have promoted a Document 8 proposal, Document 8:67 L for 2015–2016, which is about responsible third parties in this type of trade, and which is a proposal for an addendum to the Penal Code § 389 to tighten up how we handle corruption. Do you have the tools you need? The ownership message is very clear. It was tightened up under the current state council and makes very clear expectations of the companies. It's primarily where we exercise ownership, but we also have to remember that we're not alone in many of these companies. Then there's a question of whether you have staffing and competence in the department to follow up. I'm sure you do. I'm also quite sure the Council of State will say from now on if you don't have it and need to make changes. Then you just make the changes. It's like the representative Sivert Bjørnstad said, it's about the crimes of the companies. Then it's not so strange that we become dependent on alerts, perhaps media and that kind of thing, because things show up. But the important thing is that you have ownership departments with the competence to follow up the government's adopted ownership policy, where it's very clear that corruption is totally unacceptable. It must be followed up in the companies by building procedures that enable you to follow up. I think it has actually been quite a good development in this area. It's good that we have this kind of debate, but we also have to remember that these are things that go back in time, and we have to put it in that light.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e824	In Norway, there have been long traditions of state ownership in companies engaged in business activities. The demands and expectations of the State that owns them have been, as has already been said, thoroughly explained through the documents on ownership the Stortinget has discussed and joined over the years. One might say that there has been broad agreement on the principles applicable to state ownership. This was most recently clarified during the debate on the ownership notification, Announcement. Point 27 for the 2013–2014 period, which was presented in June 2014. Over the last few years, several of the companies owned by the Norwegian State have been suspected, accused and in some cases also convicted of corruption. There is no one in this room who is not of the opinion that corruption is punishable. And there is no one who does not see this as a threat to a well-functioning economy, and also as a threat to the rule of law, to democracy, to human rights. It is therefore not without reason that government and government have considered the work to prevent corruption as a central task with which it is not in any way to be seen through its fingers. Therefore, the State that owns has made clear demands on the State-owned companies that there should be well-developed systems to deal with these kinds of issues. Among other things it is stated in the Report. Paragraph 27 states that the companies: ‘has policies, systems and measures to prevent corruption and to deal with possible offences or cases of doubt that need to be identified in this field.’;» In addition, it says: ‘The companies carry out careful and thorough assessments of corruption-related issues for their activities.’ And... ‘Company displays the greatest degree of transparency related to cash flows, including taxes.’ What is the state's task as owner and as the person supervising the follow-up of expectations in line with the decision of the Storting? The State in which the ownership is to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption requirements on which the Storting has been clearly identified. This has been thoroughly explained in the ownership message. It is based on good principles of state ownership. Very often, one by ownership of companies will think about economics, money, dividends, and of course it's important, but in this context it's even more important to talk about social responsibility – the extended responsibility for society. Clear expectations should therefore be placed on the board of a State company in this area. This means that when considering entering difficult areas, extra care is required. This may in some cases result in the Governing Board simply saying no to entering new markets because it is too difficult to measure up to the zero-corruption requirements that we have. So when entering demanding market areas, the Governing Board must be required to make the assessments on whether it is possible to meet the expectations of the company that the State has and that should be the same whether it is operating in Norway or in very difficult markets outside. In the light of recent years’ cases and questions of corruption that have arisen in relation to companies wholly or partly owned by the Norwegian State, there is reason to raise the issue of the Norwegian governance tool well enough. Is the ownership dialogue close enough between the state that owns and the board that is responsible for the company's operations, and especially when the company chooses to start up in countries where the corruption factor is particularly high? Is it such that the pursuit of profits and profits exceeds the care that one must have in all business activities, not least when operating in countries where corruption is common? For the Norwegian companies, the problem does not seem to be a lack of corruption programmes. There's no survival. In some of these cases, it may seem that very little has been prepared to establish activities in countries with a high degree of corruption culture. Lack of knowledge of the market, lack of knowledge of the country to be established, and of the business partners to be dealt with, appears, according to Transparency International, to be some of the most important conditions that create the basis for getting involved in a culture of corruption. That is why it is important to ask: is the state not to conduct research activities, but do we have sufficient and proper tools to ensure that corporate governance takes responsibility for the development of these kinds of strategies?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e850	The representative of the Mine was very important here. Corruption is a major global problem, and either one is a socialist, a market librarian or a conservative, should be busy bringing corruption to life. He pleaded to increase the differences in the world, to serious violations of human rights, such as trafficking in human beings, arms trafficking, forest and home rage for people, and to destroy the idea of equal conditions of competition and thus weaken value creation in general. There are in many ways violations of the running rules for propriety, human dignity and trade and production. That is why it is an important question that the representative, Mr Hemdal, has raised, which should be travelled at regular intervals in general, and especially when we deal with different issues in the Stortinget where relevant. My question is: is corruption something we say we are opposed to, but which we tacitly accept abroad? The alternative is, as the representative Bjørnstad was in his post, that if we say no to corruption there, we will not be competitive in the countries in which we operate. And as several media surveys point in the direction of, commercialism in countries with extensive corruption can be difficult without participating in corruption itself. As the offshore provider Sluttland Group said, they thought they could "swing away" the corruption as they moved parts of their business to Vietnam. It wasn't that simple. As the director said, it's very easy to put a few dollars in a paper to make things happen. Norwegian state-owned companies have many pigs in the woods. Statoil in Iran, StatoilHydro in Libya and Telenor in Bangladesh, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, etc. The list is unfortunately long, and even longer if you add Norwegian companies in general. Because there will be no less corruption, there will be more. EY Norway – formerly Ernst & Young – recently carried out a survey in 62 countries among 3,000 business leaders. In the study, 39 pst respond. by business leaders globally that money and corruption are widespread in their countries. Similar measurements are almost unchanged in 2014 and 2012 when 38 pst. I replied that this was widespread. In Norway, 16 p.t. by business leaders in the investigation that money and corruption are widespread in the business world. In some other countries, 90 pst. by business leaders that corruption and money is common. In other words, corruption is very common, and it is also common in Norway. What if we really took hold of this? Norway has many instruments, including through state-owned companies and the ownership notification, but also through various support schemes, whether it is Innovation Norway, Enova, the Guarantee Institute or Transport Credit. We could have used all of these. Claiming that no one should have anything to do with tax havens is a good start, which unfortunately the government has been reprehensible to when it applies to all aspects of Norwegian involvement, i.e. all Norwegian instruments and ownership. But let's take other measures today, which have been referred to as important by many. Let me take the following: Good warning system. Not all companies have a good warning system. Could we have demanded this at all Norwegian involvement in company? In Norway it was legal in 2007 by the Employment Environment Act that all companies in Norway should have organised a warning system. It's the employer's duty to take care of it. When several people are given the possibility to be anonymous alerts, there are several alerts about critical issues. The Ernst & Young report showed that over 40 pst. of all corruption is detected by a defensive, reliable warning system – 40 pst. Could this be something that the Minister of Industry could have assessed? Finally, could the data analysis of e.g. possible relationships between add-ons and suppliers, e.g. whether the employee has ownership or board of the supplier is something that the minister could also have seen and implemented in the Norwegian appliance? Just as Norway likes to be a nation of peace and a nation that fights for human rights, which is the best in aid, etc., the fight against corruption could have been one of the nobility we love, that we make Norway – at least that we have it as a goal – a free Norway, which also applies to Norwegian companies abroad. I believe that there could have been a significant competitive advantage in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e877	Thank you very much to all those who have participated in this interpellation debate. This is an important topic that I believe needs continuity and focus from us as Parliament and as legislators. The business principles must be based; there is no doubt about it. As I said in my main post, the government should not have rights other than those of other shareholders. Nor shall the State engage in corporate contacts by means other than those of other shareholders. It's the board we're going to deal with, and it's the board that's responsible for the business of the companies. The Council of State was in its last speech — and it has also been repeated in some of the other speeches — that what has now been revealed is from a time back and that there is improvement. That's good. It is also the case that we have discovered things this spring, and where a rather recent one revealed, through the subsidiary of DNB, tax evasion. I must say that I have a great sense of what the representative Pollestad says about openness, about knowing, remembering – all these words that we can use. It's day-to-day. It's a change of mind that needs to be made to deal with things that are back in time and that are being revealed in the present time. I believe that the Council of State should pay attention to when she has her directors in place in a few weeks' time. It is that this can lead to a negative reputation for the Norwegian state and society. Although the things that have been revealed have been in subsidiaries of Telenor or DNB, there are companies that many associate with Norway, and it does not help that they are subsidiaries, because it is equally serious, and it does something about the Norwegian reputation. The principle of transparency is simple and clear. It shall be transparent in relation to the exercise of ownership by the State and the activities of the company. This is stated in the first principle of the ten principles of good ownership by the state. It should also apply when things are revealed, when things come to light, then the openness and memory must be a little more present with today's responsible rulers and directors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e890	I feel that this has been a good and thorough debate, and that there is a great deal of agreement on the general principles of how we exercise our ownership. So there are questions about action, and I think that's also quite natural when we've seen such things that we've seen some of the last few years. Some of the challenges are that companies have had systems, have had guidelines, but these have not been followed. We as owners have asked questions, but we have not got the right answers. Something can be solved all the time to improve procedures and the systems that companies have, but something goes deeper than that, and we have to follow up with the governments, and it has to be a consequence if the governments do not take this responsibility seriously. It has been called into question by entering challenging markets. I want to say that I know about companies that have not entered markets because it becomes too difficult, or that have gone out of markets because it has been difficult. What we expect is that governments take seriously the demands we make on extra caution in particularly challenging markets. So it has been mentioned whether there can be more than one action. I will not, of course, reject it, but I believe that it is essentially the governments that are going to implement the measures. All companies are different, they have different systems, different cultures. This is a management responsibility, and the responsibility the management and the board have to take, and then we're going to take responsibility for pointing out directors, along with other owners, who do this very important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e901	Then there's case no. 5 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e907	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e916	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the Labour and Welfare Act uses the opportunities for more effective work against social security fraud in line with the changes in the Social Security Act in spring 2013.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to keep the size informed of progress in the implementation of a technical solution for the exchange of information between the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the State of Labour and Welfare.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e1069	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e1078	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e1167	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e1176	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-19.ana.ud15e1218	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
