ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e56	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e72	The FM network is shut down as planned during 2017. Radio broadcasting in Norway will take place from then on primarily through Digital Audio Broadcasting, DAB, and the Internet. I assume that the Storting is familiar with what DAB is and the requirements of the Storting have established that the shutdown of the FM network can be implemented. I would therefore like to focus first of all on the preparedness aspects of this change according to what I understood was Storting's order yesterday. I would first like to mention that each State Council is responsible for preparedness in its own area. For the sake of simplicity, I would also like to address areas that fall within the responsibilities of other government councils. The relevant Councils of State are present in the Chamber and will be able to address answers to questions within their portfolio of responsibilities in the subsequent debate on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Radio is an important channel for alerting people in emergency situations and for obtaining information and messages to the population. In particular, it is relevant to use radio as a transmission channel in the context of extreme weather, floods or hazards, which implies that the population should take precautions, traffic information which can improve safety, and/or facilitate travel for road users and serious emergency situations, as in combination with the warning signal of typhoon installations. Of course, the government is concerned with the preparedness consequences of technological changes, such as the DAB transition. Prepared assessments have been carried out of these changes by both the National Communications Authority, the NRC and the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. The Stortinget has made demands for, among other things: the coverage of the DAB broadcasts in order to switch off the FM network. This is the most important emergency requirement. In this it is that the coverage in the regional block should be equivalent to the coverage of the NRK in the FM network, i.e. 99,5 pst. The five extinguishing conditions laid down by the Storting I mention for the sake of order. They came to the treatment of Report. St. 8 for 2010–2011, and are the following: By 1 January 2015, NRK’s radio offer must have a digital coverage corresponding to today’s P1 coverage in the FM network. The digital radio offer must represent an added value for the listeners. The National Block must be constructed to at least 90 pst by 1 January 2015. population coverage. As of 1 January 2015, at least half of the radio listeners are required to use a digital radio platform on a daily basis. There must be reasonable and satisfactory solutions for radio reception in cars. In winter 2015, the National Communications Authority concluded that the NRK’s DAB network, the regional block, had a population coverage of 99,5 pst. as from January 2015. The Ministry of Culture asked for a new coverage calculation in autumn Nkom after the NRK had cost another 128 DAB transmitters in its network. Nkom's new figures show that the population coverage of the NRK's DAB network is 99.7 pst. Thus, according to NRK’s DAB network, the coverage rate is at least as good as the FM network, which has a population coverage of about 98,6 pst. in FM stereo and 99,6 pst. in FM mono. All NRK channels shall have the same coverage from 11 January 2017. It is reported by the Ministry of Culture that no specific claim has been made on the DAB coverage at sea by the authorities. However, the NRK has decided to build networks with approximately equivalent coverage to that on the FM network, i.e. approx. 50 km for the NRK P1 coastline. According to the NRK, the NRK’s DAB network is to provide coverage to the sea at least 50 km from land along the coast. The NRK, in cooperation with the Rescue Company, has carried out measurement campaigns to test the coverage, and the targets conclude that the coverage map and the theoretical calculations in the areas surveyed are in line with the reality with the exception of a few holes and the loss of signal. The NRK has established three 24-hour forecasts channels on DAB with regional forecasts to improve safety and provide better service to coastal fishing fleets. In addition to the offer of DAB, NRK provides satellite radio broadcasts with weather forecasts and covers most sea areas in which the fishing fleet operates. Furthermore, the NRK has maintained its long-wave transmissions from Ingøya in Finnmark for emergency reasons. It is also possible to get weather data about the VHF connection. The anti-civil thymphonic alarm system is currently using the FM network as a carrier of the trigger mechanism for the typhonic sirens used for national alerts. In the revised national budget in 2016, EUR 17,5 million was granted. NOK to switch platform from the FM network to the emergency network. The upgrade work is in progress and shall be in place in parallel with the phase-out of the FM network. The size requirement, set in 2011 for the coverage of the DAB network, was based on population coverage and not land coverage. The requirement for the NRK was, as mentioned, 99,5 pst, and the requirement for the commercial network was 90 pst. The FM network is not developed for land coverage, but population coverage. To achieve good population coverage at FM, 50 main transmitters were set up with 1,100 smaller transmitters for NRK P1. These transmitters were to cover holes in the coverage from the large ones. A consequence of this is that relatively good land coverage is also achieved, but not corresponding to the population coverage. Norkring calculated the area coverage of the FM to be about 83.1 pst. in stereo and about 90 pst. in mono. The difference between stereo and mono is that it will be possible to receive lower quality consignments via an antenna at the outer edge of the coverage area. Stereo coverage means normal indoor coverage. DAB is built in a slightly different way, but has the same effect by smaller transmitters contributing to increased area coverage. The DAB signals have the advantage of reinforcing each other so that both population coverage and land coverage are better than the technical calculations would suggest. According to NRK's DAB network, Nkom has an area coverage of about 86.7 pst, which is a little bit better than FM stereo and a little bit worse than FM mono. DSB has prepared its own report with an emergency assessment of the transition to DAB. The report was submitted to the Ministry of Justice and Defence on 3 December and was published on the same day. The DSB concludes that the Norwegian DAB network will be technically more robust than the current FM network mainly because each transmitter is fed separately. DSB did not make its own coverage calculations but based on Nkom’s coverage calculations and found that the size assumptions on coverage are met. Tunnel coverage is also assumed to be better in DAB than in FM, because all radio channels — and not just P1 — become available in specific tunnels. The DSB concludes that the contingency consequences of shutdown are uncertain but likely to be small. Individual cases cannot be excluded where the lack of information to persons in a car or boat may have undesirable consequences. The main remaining uncertainty, according to DSB, is related to the speed of replacement of reception equipment in the fleet and to the extent to which new equipment is installed both in buildings and in vehicles in such a way that experienced coverage corresponds to measured coverage. With regard to sea cover, additional measurements will be required to confirm full coverage. DSB points to four proposals for measures that could reduce the potentially adverse consequences of the conversion to DAB: Firstly, to reinforce the information and communication campaign on the second more targeted information against vulnerable groups in the population Thirdly, to provide more information on the vulnerability of the transmission network to hacking fourth, that the NRK must continuously follow up the white holes in the coverage map The NRK commented on these proposals in a letter dated 4 December to the DSB. The comments were made on the basis of dialogue with Norkring, who owns and operates the DAB network. The NRK’s comments show that they believe that the DAB network itself is unlikely to be particularly vulnerable to hacking attacks. They also write that there may be a theoretical possibility that someone establishes their own DAB transmitters, which override the transmitters in the DAB network. These, once again in theory, can be used to hack technological platforms into cars. The NRK indicates that the DAB network is a closed network that is not exposed to the Internet. The network is built in line with the ISO safety standard, and Norwegians who own the network carry out annual safety audits. The NRK further indicates that if someone is going to hack DAB, it is likely to have to do so by creating their own transmitters that override the transmitters on the Norkring DAB network. The NRK considers this to be unlikely. Due to the lack of synchronization, they think there will only be noise, and it will also be easy to detect. According to DSB, the biggest challenge for a successful technologist shift is the radio reception in the car, which I was facing. As of today, it is stated that about 28 pst. of the car park in Norway has DAB radio. It is also essential that users have adequate quality reception equipment and that the equipment is correctly installed and used. In a transitional phase, there will be more without proper automotive reception equipment. This, of course, weakens the availability of traffic reports and public warnings. We must take seriously that this constitutes a vulnerability to conversion and that we cannot exclude unwanted single events. Therefore, the receiver in the car must remain the main focus of the operators before closing. However, DSB has argued that this vulnerability is due to the technology shift itself and is not linked to a vulnerability that is reduced by postponing the closure of the FM network. In addition, DSB indicates that digital radio is transmitted over several infrastructures. In a car, for example, mobile broadband is used to access radio where 3G or 4G coverage is provided. The NRK has mainly completed the development of the DAB network, but continues to adjust the DAB network. According to these measurements, the coverage of NRK’s DAB transmission networks in Northern Ireland is mainly good and counts around 140 transmitters. Until 11 January, the NRK informed them that they would still make further adjustments. 24 new transmitters are planned to improve coverage in smaller areas in the Nordic region. This year, the NRK has set up over 130 new transmitters, with two out of three transmitters set up in the three northernmost states. The NRK reports that the new transmitters will provide better roadside coverage and better signals for many cabin owners. NRK and Digitalradio Norway also report that they carry out control measurements when they receive complaints from the public about the coverage conditions. The NRK is also in dialogue with a number of others, among others. The NAF, the Rescue Company and DNT, assesses the ongoing need for further improvement of the DAB coverage. The DSB report therefore concludes that emergency reasons have been taken into account. Most of the challenges DSB points to have worked with the Ministry of Culture and Broadcasting over a long period of time. The Nkom report states that the DAB coverage is good, and that the coverage meets the requirements of the Stortinget. DSB concludes in its report, inter alia: with the DAB network being technically more robust than the FM network. DSB also assumes that the coverage in tunnels will improve with DAB since all radio channels, and not only NRK P1, will be available in the tunnels concerned. The DSB overall concludes, as I also started with, that the contingency consequences of the shutdown are uncertain, but most likely small.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e152	The President, pursuant to Rule 45(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, will propose that the statement be followed by an immediate debate and that this debate be taken together with the debate on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e168	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e177	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a clear and good statement that should clear up any doubt about the government's follow-up to the decision on the transition from FM to DAB. The proposal by the Central Party to postpone the closure of the FM network has been dealt with rapidly within the Committee for a very busy period of time. It has been important to deal with the matter before Christmas, in good time before the date of the first regional closure of the FM network on 11 January. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee which has made this possible. A unanimous committee has concluded that the proposal of the Central Party has already received its necessary response and that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol. The minority comments I expect will be included in a separate article. It's often funny that it's hard to predict, especially about the future. As politicians, we often face skepticism and strong feelings when development offers new solutions that intervene in people's everyday lives. It is natural with uncertainty about how the new will work and how it will affect our everyday lives. We are not happy to have to change routines, and radio listening is definitely a routine part of the day for many in Norway. It is good that we still have a strong relationship with Norwegian radio stations, and the actors who are now going to send on the new DAB network are of course happy and depending on that relationship in the future. It is therefore essential for all parties to establish a well-functioning network from day one. The background to the proposal is requests that DAB does not work in areas where there is FM coverage. Then it is important to remember the following: Firstly, requests for gaps in the coverage of regions which are not to be changed in the first place are valuable for their correction, but it is only when the region in question is to be changed that the coverage is – and is – fully developed. Continuous adjustment, sealing of cover holes and extension of the network in tunnels are taking place. Secondly, two such different systems will not necessarily have exactly the same coverage at the exact same location. The point is there's now a coverage of 99.7 pst. Thirdly, the correct installation and use of DAB radios and adapters is essential for the result. The patrol that travels around the country and guides and helps with this, has many experiences that their help has solved the challenge for listeners. Good information is therefore very important in the year ahead. I record multiple expressions of scepticism for the measurements that have been made. I think that's weird. Measurements have been made using the same methodology as for the FM network and thus the coverage is fully comparable. Suspected as the central authority has controlled the coverage and established that the population coverage of DAB is better than that of the FM network. Also on the sea there have been thorough investigations of the coverage. The rescue company has participated in the check-out of the coverage card and determines that the coverage card is correct. A few holes were identified that are important for the fishing fleet, holes that have been set in motion to cover. Preparedness has been a central theme of the debate on the transition to DAB. Radio is an important medium of communication with citizens in critical situations and of warning about important issues that listeners should be aware of and take into account. Today this is done through messages on NRK1. In a DAB network, this can be done independently of which channels you listen to and the message can be targeted at the relevant districts. This will be an improvement as a matter of urgency. I am pleased that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness has established, at the latest in a report last week, that preparedness is maintained and more robust in a new DAB network, and that a postponement will not mean anything positive for this. Finally, as committee chairman and case rapporteur for this case, I have been interviewed many times about DAB and what we do if it turns out that the skeptics are right. I have been clear in the answers and to those who build the web, that if that happens, it is absolutely necessary to take a foot in the ground. The opinion of the right, which I know is also the clear intention of the Council of State, is therefore well taken care of in the proposal SV is promoting in the Chamber today. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to follow closely the closure of the FM network and to ensure on an ongoing basis that the preparedness is not hit and that the coverage is met in line with the Storting assumptions.’ The right will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e208	I thank you for the presentation, and that the Presidency of the United Kingdom responded quickly to the postponement proposal and the request for prompt treatment in the United Kingdom. The working party has joined the transition to DAB with the assumptions made by the Storting. We have felt safe about this work, especially after a comprehensive government issued a big message in April 2015, which concluded that the criteria had been met. This government is part of the Advance Party. Very well known, the Progress Party has not tried to stop or remove the matter from the government, which would have been clarifying, nor in the Committee's consideration of this proposal for a representative, has the Progress Party submitted any alternative proposal. But last week we were told that the Progress Party intends to make a proposal directly in the debate. I have to say I react to that procedure. Firstly, there is considerable uncertainty among people as to whether or not it is going to shut down. From all over the country, there are now readings from representatives of the Progress Party where they promise to fight against the closure of the FM and warn against weakening the preparedness. This uncertainty may in itself weaken the preparedness, as more people are waiting to purchase the necessary equipment. Secondly, there is uncertainty in the Storting about the government's control of the matter. When one of two government parties promotes proposals against government policy, it is challenging for the opposition to act. It appears to be very unyielding. Thirdly, there is concern that the Progress Party has been made aware of information that has not been made known to the Storting. The Progress Party has the Minister of Transport, who is responsible for safety along Norwegian roads, they have the Minister of Fisheries, who is responsible for safety along the coast, and they have the Minister of Justice, who has the coordinating responsibility of government. When the Progress Party then claims that the preparedness has not been met, we have to ask questions. It is a part of undermining everything that the Minister of Culture has said on this matter, and it does not seem that the Minister of Culture has control over his own government. Now we have left behind many weeks of chaos and uncertainty from the government in connection with the budget. On Monday we had a financial debate in Stortinget, and the government parties then assured us that they have now cleared up and stood together. DAB was the first thing we were going to deal with after the financial debate, and already then we were witnessing a full split between the Right and the Advance Party. The size cannot accept such a lack of control. That was also the reason why the Workers' Party yesterday asked for a statement from the responsible State Councils before we can decide on the matter. I think the Minister of Justice's statement was just clarifying and clear. He points out that each State Council is responsible for its responsibilities, and therefore it is gratifying that all the Councils of State concerned are present and will participate in the debate. He further indicates that the criteria have been met, which has been given clear feedback from both Nkom, NRK itself and DSB. Then he shows that you cannot exclude events and focus on the listeners’ own responsibilities – first and foremost – to get the right equipment. The leading point of the Storting is whether the state councils in their responsibilities have done the job they're set to do. We'll get back to that in the line change on each state council. We must base the information provided by the Minister of Justice. The interesting thing then is if the Progress Party trusts its own state councils and draws the proposal they have notified that they want to promote. If they do, it's tidy. But if they still choose to promote the proposal, it will undermine what the Minister of Justice has just said on the floor of the European Parliament. Then we have a challenging parliamentary situation. I want to challenge Ib Thomsen from the Progress Party, who is a spokesman in the field, and who comes up on the pulpit after me, if they believe in the State Council Anundsen has just said. And if they continue to promote the proposal, is it not a failure to trust their own state council?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e225	We take note of the presentation by the government and the Minister of Justice. We also think it was clear and good, and we record that the government is following up the decision made in the Stortinget in 2011, well. I have also been well reassured about the country's preparedness after the statement to the Minister of Justice. In 2011, the Progress Party voted against the closure of the FM network. In 2011, the Progress Party was for digitisation, but against shutting down the FM network. We were against the first country in the world to close down the FM network being Norway, and not least we wanted our neighbouring country to join. The introduction of DAB in Norway was proposed by the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party, and the current government is following up that decision. It was these three games that made Meld. St. 8 for 2010-2011 on the digitisation of the radio medium, with requirements that were adopted before closure could be implemented. In the vote it was only the Progress Party that raised critical questions to the proposal of the Centre Party and the Labour Party to introduce the DAB. Even then, in 2011, we had a consumer perspective. This would cost consumers a lot of money. In the big news, the Center Party and the Workers' Party stressed that DAB would provide added value to people in the districts. The centre party and the Workers' Party even made a point that with FM there were 119 municipalities that only had access to 3-5 radio channels, and that DAB would do much, much better for people in the districts – yes, provide many more channels. The center party was basically so positively tuned to DAB in the big news they said, that it would be more natural today to discuss the name of DAB. I had the impression that the Center Party was so positive that DAB should be renamed the Center Party's Audio Broadcasting instead of discussing DAB's future. The centre party and the Working Party have stood firm and loaded and broken with the DAB solution. They have fought to put in place the scheme – fought for it in Stortingen and never expressed themselves negatively in terms of consumers and their costs. Those who were in favour of the proposal for the Central Party and the Workers' Party to introduce DAB in Norway should not be in doubt. These batches have been powerful propellants, individually and collectively. If we are to take seriously the Central Party's and Workers' Party's big message, they've got it exactly what they wanted. This was the order, and the government follows it up. It will no longer be on what they told the districts in Norway about very poor coverage in the districts, and this has now been confirmed within that particular area. But what they forgot to say was that consumers had to change the radio in the car, they had to change the radio in their house, they had to change the radio on the cabin, they had to change the radio in the poultry. They must even switch more radios to the cabin. What they also forgot to say was that the car tourists from Denmark and Sweden cannot receive signals in Norway, which I also think is regrettable and clearly a consumer perspective. That the Central Party and the Workers' Party can no longer stand by the proposal they promoted in the Storting, or at least are skeptical, I find it strange. I'm going to give the Center Party an unsolicited advice: sometimes it's best to say it as it is. Where I grew up, between soils and small gravel roads in Nittedal, people tend to talk straight out and say what they mean and associate the truth. Avoiding talking about what you really mean has never been what people in the districts tend to do. I understand that it is not easy for the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV to take political responsibility for the majority decision taken in 2011, but the fact that it costs consumers tens of thousands to exchange all of these radios has never been mentioned. The centre party should say straight that this was a bad idea. They have the opportunity to do so today with their proposal. The Progress Party wants to promote its proposal that we want to stop the closure of the FM network. Subsidiarity, if the proposal does not get a majority, we want to support SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e248	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e253	I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Preparedness for a clear statement. It has been absolutely necessary to ask for a statement from the state councils responsible for preparedness, all the time when the Progress Party has raised doubts as to whether security and preparedness have been adequately ensured, given the transition from FM to DAB. In today's speeches there is a completely different perspective drawn from the Progress Party, and that is the consumer perspective. I understand that the Progress Party wants to make a point that they were opposed in 2011 and that they are still opposed, but the seriousness of the message to the Progress Party until today has been that they have questioned security and preparedness. That is why it was necessary to get the clarification that the Minister of Justice and Defence has given us today. Otherwise, it's something I think is a little weird. On Monday we adopted a budget for this country. If the Progress Party gets an impact on its proposal today, it has a cost. Maintaining the FM network will cost about 200 million. kr. I cannot see that it has been included in the budget for 2017. Someone has to tell me in case, if it's done, because I can't see that there's money there. I also think I would like to remind the Progress Party that we have a cooperation agreement that is quite clear that if you want to spend money on something, you should seek agreement with the three other parties you have agreed with. So here we are promoting a proposal with a cost of 200 million. kr. I have not been asked if it is okay. But anyway, the important thing is that today we have been assured that the security and preparedness of transition from FM to DAB is ensured. A report has been submitted by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. I am very happy that that report came before we deal with this matter today. The report reassures me that what was also part of the Christian People's Party in 2011 has been right. In this report, a number of recommendations were made, which the Minister of Justice and Security made clear. I expect the government to follow closely the recommendations – they should just be lacking – especially this that goes on with good information, because it has obviously been a failure. I had hoped that the Progress Party would withdraw its proposal. So they haven't. I can't understand it as anything but that here the Progress Party on the Stortinget has shown a distrust of a government where the Advance Party sits – its own government. I had hoped that they would draw this, also because it has a cost that has not been discussed at all. But I record that the Progress Party, because they have meant this in 2011, should also of course mean it in 2016. I've been calmed down. I am sure that we can now – as long as the proposals that have been put forward are voted down – start the closure of the FM network, only in Northern Ireland on 11 January 2017, and that we can put in place a radio system that will give listeners good experiences, and where security and preparedness are well maintained. The Christian People's Party will support the proposal promoted by the Socialist Left Party, but will vote against the proposals of the Progress Party – and of course also the proposals of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e270	Radio is part of the life of people, whether we are at home with ourselves, on the way, on the sea or in the mountains. Radio is important as one of the cultural carriers in society, but at the same time radio also has a very important preparedness function. Before they always said: important message – listen on radio. It was part of what people were used to, and it's still going to be like that. Now we have received many calls from far and near – from the south of the country, from the north of the country, from the west, from the middle of Norway, from the east – that there are several places where the DAB coverage is bad, and people report that it is creeping out and this is happening. So the map that is presented that the coverage is so good doesn't match the people's experience, and that's what the Center Party takes seriously. NAF asked its members, and in two weeks they got 1,000 messages back that there was poor coverage. So it's not just antenna faults, but there's also holes in the coverage, and it's important that we take with us. I believe that if we don't have the opportunity to listen on the radio, if we don't have the opportunity to get road reports, weather reports or reports of major events, whether it's a race or there's other things, we're weakening people's preparedness -- we're weakening the ability to be notified of things. When it's still under 30 pst. which has DAB in the car, it is critical for road reports. Foreign car combinations and tourists coming here definitely don't have DAB. The tourist cabins report that there are many places in the mountains that there is no coverage, or that there is no power on the cabin, and therefore they do not have DAB radio after a short time, because the battery capacity is so weak. It's weakening readiness. Therefore, the Centre Party has proposed postponing the closure of the FM network, and there was also an opening to it in the decision taken in 2011: If you did not see that it was properly maintained, you could push for the closure until 2019. We believe that, in the light of the information that has been provided, both directly to us and to NAF and others, an external assessment of the coverage of the security of the network should be taken. In Sweden, the attention given to the listeners, the social economy and, above all, the preparedness was crucial for politicians to refuse to close the FM. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness warns that new cars with DAB are easy to hack. There is a new safety aspect that needs to be assessed. It pointed out correctly Anundsen, but it's important to keep it on. We have four state councils in the Chamber today that, according to the Minister of Culture in today's Political Quarter, will recommend that we still do not consider postponing the closure of the FM network. Now the four state councils, on behalf of the government, assume a great responsibility, a responsibility for the proper follow-up of preparedness, and I can promise that it will be followed very closely. With that reason, I support the proposal of the Centre Party: ‘The Government requests a new external assessment of the DAB coverage, as well as the security around the network and wait with the closure of the FM network until all the requirements of the Storting for technology change can be guaranteed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e288	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken up the proposal she referred to, which is distributed in places.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e293	There are strictly two different things we are discussing here today. One is the introduction of DAB, the other is the functioning of parliamentaryism in this Chamber. But for the left, the two are quite closely linked. The first decision on DAB was taken in 2007, under the Bondevik II Government. I actually remember a little bit of the post I made, sail if I haven't found it in the archive, where I said that I was very critical that the Storting should adopt a technology, and that I sincerely hope that this was the last time in history the Storting decided to choose a technology. In the government, the Left was very sceptical, but we lost. When you lose in a government, you stand for it in the Stortinget, too, and that's what we did. We lost against the other parties in government because we thought it was stupid that Stortinget should adopt a new technology for radio. I believe that the years after 2007 have shown that we were right, but we lost. After that, we've done what we actually had to do in government. We have voted for every time here, and we have expressed scepticism every time, but admitted that in 2007 we lost that matter in government. Now we've come to the point we've come to. If this had been a very important matter for the Progress Party and they had suggested it in the State budget, the Left would not have stood in the way of it. It would have given us finally right in what we were just talking about in 2007. But now we've come to the point we've come to. We have adopted the budget that we have adopted, and I believe that in this house you should not only have a fundamental vision that keeps ground and ground, but also a horizontal view that keeps from time to time. Here's a little bit of the point that someone doesn't quite manage to have the same opinion from one time to the next. We will not stop this, but we will support SV's proposal to follow developments closely. I would like to express what is the primary position of the Left, that we think it's stupid that we should adopt technologies in this way. It's always going to be wrong when politicians have to be foresight and adopt new technologies. But now we've come to where we've come, and we haven't added 200 million. extra in the budget to maintain two parallel systems. It is possible to express concerns about preparedness. It's probably also demanding with the FM network, as it is today, which is actually more vulnerable if one of the greats gets out of it. It's possible to express frustration that people have to buy new radios. I, who is concerned about culture, am very concerned about the quality we get with DAB, because the music and sound quality is actually better with today's FM than it's going to be in very many of the DAB channels -- we push so many channels into one system that the sound quality at the other end actually gets pretty bad. I hope that we get DAB, doesn't lead to people listening less to Norwegian music, getting less Norwegian culture and less of what's good journalism, because the quality of the sound we get into Norwegian home is getting poor. There's a lot of good arguments, but now we're here, and the left runs the pretty simple principle that we stand for what we stand for, in every organ. We lost this case in the government in 2007. After that, we've been loyal to what we voted for, and we're going to do that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e308	DAB development is a complex issue in which it has not always been easy to orient itself. But I think it's pretty easy to know what we're going to vote today. We shall vote against the proposal of the Central Party, against the loose proposal of the Progress Party and for the SV's proposal. If we had today to take a position on an extension of DAB, I think maybe it would look a little different. We probably had a stake on the Internet radio and kept the FM network on standby. That it was so stupid that when one first started with it, I would still oppose it. I can understand that one made that choice. We get a network that compares to FM gives us a lot more channels, better preparedness when it's fully operational, and better coverage when it's fully operational. So it also has challenges. It will be hollow – places where there was FM coverage where there is no DAB coverage from day one. It has to be repaired, checked out and followed up as soon as it happens. But it will also be the opposite – places where there will be DAB coverage where it does not have our FM coverage. It's also the case that FM has degrees of coverage from full stereo until the scrambled many of us have heard. There may also be challenges, where DAB does not have an intermediate place, and there will always be problems with the equipment when introducing a shift in this way. All of these are known challenges from years back, which I know from my time as the Council of State and from the handling of issues in Stortinget. These included: due to part of this uncertainty that the last time this discussion was in Stortinget – spring 2015 – I suggest on behalf of SV that the Stortinget should ask the government to submit a statement that systematically goes through the criteria set for the closure of FM in 2017. I had an article where I was problematic, followed up by a little debate, where, among other things. The representative Harberg held a rather nuanced post. But neither the Progress Party nor the Center Party nor anyone else voted in favour of that proposal at that time. On the contrary, several representatives held rather unconcerned posts on developments, for example: The centre party. So I have to say I'm not particularly impressed with the proposal of the Center Party right now. First of all, they weren't there at any time when we could go into the questions more thoroughly and had time to find out if what we had agreed was good enough. Secondly, I notice that the Minister of Justice said – as I thought was good – that a postponement would not improve this because the uncertainty of the technology shift itself. So there's a proposal that won't help you with any of the problems, even if it's real. People experience things differently -- I use it as a foundation from the Center Party -- yes, people experience things differently. It's my experience through life. Our task as consultants is to try to base our best knowledge on when we're going to move on. Then I will turn to the representative Thomsen and the Progress Party directly, via the President, of course, but equally fully. We're up in the same places, it sounds like -- the one in the Austland and the other in the West, right enough. I'm grown up in a culture where it's important to say things straight out as it is. It's just that when I woke up, it meant saying one thing straight out as it is, not saying two different things straight out at the same time. People who said two very different things in two different conversations were referred to as a bit of a drag, which is not entirely trustworthy. I don't really see the representative Thomsen like that, but I see that the Progress Party in some of these is trying to do in the hall, like that. It's easy to say two things at the same time from different places, and get out of it. That's what I think. With a slightly more parliamentary use of words – since it is now ten years since the expression ‘opposition in plenary’ took its place in Norway – now we have ‘opposition in the Chamber’. After all, there must be a slightly larger problem at a time when the challenges of confidence in democracy are significant. I'm taking up SV's suggestion. The important thing is that we expect a running follow-up of preparedness and coverage, including how it will turn out at sea, including how it will turn on DNT cabins, many of them without radio coverage today, including how it will turn out in mountain areas, including holes that may be, including, of course, following the standby running and deploying the necessary resources to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e324	The President will claim that the term'sleep' is in the frontier country to be what we call a parliamentary expression. The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e331	The decision taken at Stortinget in 2011 obliges the government to follow up. It makes one independent of which batch book you have as the Council of State. Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, the National Communications Authority, which has done a lot of quality work to check whether the coverage requirements have been met, and in addition, there is a responsibility for the Road Administration in particular to ensure that the coverage in practice is good. Many measurements have been made by the National Communications Authority and, as communicated in the Minister of Justice’s statement, found that the requirements of the Stortinget have been met. It is a confirmation that the government has actually followed up the decisions of the Stortinget. So when some people here have tried to create the impression that the government has not followed up the decisions because it consists of Frp people, who in this room in 2011 voted against the decision, it's wrong. The decisions have been followed up by the government. The decisions have also been followed up in practice, even some of the things that were not decided by the Stortinget in 2011, so the government has made sure that one has done a little more than the Stortinget expected. Initially, there was no requirement for the type of coverage to be provided along the roads. There is a demand for the coverage of people, but it is also important that we have good coverage where people move. The road service reports to us that the development of DAB along the roads is on track, that one will have at least as good coverage as the FM band provides today. It is important not least in the tunnels. The state road authority confirms that the development is also on track, that the work will be completed in line with the exit plan. It is correct to measure one today, one will be able to find holes where there is FM coverage, but not yet DAB coverage, but after the set-off plan, this should be in place – during 2016, the Vegvesen will have DAB transmitters installed in all tunnels that are longer than 500 metres and have an annual traffic of more than 5000 cars. All the tunnels that have FM today will have DAB, and all new road tunnels over 500 meters, will have DAB installed. For Northern Ireland, which is first out, the last state is that most tunnels are completed. The remaining tunnels have the date of completion before the new year’s end, except for one tunnel which will not be completed until the end of the year, because there is a simple way to find out where to find a place for the technical plant. Thus, this is on track, with one exception, but it is a practical exception and has nothing to do with politics. In several counties with a lot of traffic, e.g. Oslo, Østfold and Akershus, the DAB coverage is already in place in the tunnels, although the time for shutting down has not yet arrived. In other areas, the Road Service will take time until the FM closure to complete the development, but they therefore believe that they are on the way. Today there are about 1 100 tunnels on the highways and the county roads, and 95 pst. the traffic on the national roads will pass through tunnels with DAB, but it is thus a better coverage than what you believe today is with FM. DAB provides better response in the tunnels compared to what's with FM, because then it's mostly NRK P1 you have to listen to to to get that warning, but with DAB you'll be able to get it on all channels. As noted by the Minister of Justice, the area coverage has been met. In the case of mountain coverage, you expect one to have a coverage corresponding to FM mono, and better than what you have today on FM stereo. A challenge which, however, was not a requirement of Stortinget concerns the digitisation of the car park. The size decided that you should have access to reasonable solutions, but what we see is that it's only 28 pst. of the car park in Norway today that has chosen to install DAB radio. As the Minister of Justice said, of course, there is a challenge, because there is no reception equipment, nor is there any warning. But it was not a claim from Stortinget either. The NAF sent feedback on the road cover in Northern Ireland, and the NRK reviews them. After reviewing 75 out of 100 feedback messages, very few of them are due to coverage problems. So there are other challenges that people face when they experience scurvy or the like on their radio equipment. So all in all, in the interests of preparedness, the government has followed up the decisions of the Stortinget. The road service and others have done it in practice, and in that way we have done our job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e355	I wonder if I have understood the Council correctly. I understand that he says that preparedness will be as good, or better, along the roads and in the tunnels in Northern Ireland on 11 January when the FM network shuts down there, and continuously in the other states as the FM network shuts down. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e360	I said that in the case of sending a DAB signal, the coverage would be at least on the level of what FM stereo has today, both in tunnels and along the roads. That doesn't mean it's 100 pst. But it's not FM today either. With regard to the requirements of the Storting, one has fulfilled them. In addition, the Road Service has done a job in addition to this by a special goal of having the same coverage along the roads as the FM has. It was not a requirement Stortinget explicitly stated, but as it has nevertheless been important for us that one has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e365	I thank you for the answer and understand that I understood the Council correctly. Then I have another question: will the Council of State recommend the Stortinget today to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e370	I don't think it's natural for a government council to recommend how the Storting should vote. That's why we have the form of governance we have today; that the Storting makes its own decisions and the government follows this up, regardless of how the party traps have voted, for or against, in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e375	This summer, I had a longer drive in Europe and enjoyed DAB – many channels and good quality – and I look forward to it coming here in the country, I have faith in that. But when I drive E134 over Haukelifjell – in tunnels and between hills and mountains – I wonder if I'm the one who's unlucky and gets into the 0.3% who don't have coverage, because it seems quite often. I also meet people in the taxi industry who say that the bangs and the noise do not make them go to DAB. I think safety is okay, and I think the quality is coming. My question is simply: Is the Council satisfied with the measurements that have been made?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e382	I have no reason to question the measurements that have been made, but at the same time I have to remind you that there is a difference between what a meter is. What has been a measurement parameter is the population base, i.e. the proportion of the population in Norway hit. That's where you have a very high coverage, which is at least on the height of FM. One must also see that Norway is a large country with large areas where people do not live, so if one is to measure per land cover, the figure is lower. Then we approach 86.7 pst. land cover in Norway. But if you look at FM stereo, the number is 83.1 pst. So even DAB has a larger area coverage than what FM stereo has, but a little bit less than what FM mono has. There's also a lot of places where you don't get FM on the radio. I drove the E6 in the summer of 2014, and I can confirm that there were many places we had to sing to ourselves, because it was not possible to get radio signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e387	Now I'm of those who like to sing, even in the car, it can be quite fun. One thing that has been taken up in connection with the coverage map is that one really has based the expansion process on a theoretical coverage model, not on physical measurements. Is it that the theoretical coverage model is the case, not what you measure by signals, for example. road or seaside?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e392	We can vote in the E6 song outside the main hall afterwards. In terms of coverage measurement versus area coverage, NRK, P4, Digital Radio have traveled around and made measurements. They have driven about 40,000 km in this country. They believe that the observed coverage corresponds to that which is also the theoretical coverage based on the location of the measuring equipment. Similarly, the NRK together with – I believe it was – the rescue company sailed along the coast to see if they actually get the signals that the map says are going to be there. They also believe that it is very consistent. Of course, if they find that there are places where it doesn't match, they'll fix it. That's exactly why you've traveled both to land and to water to find that it's good enough coverage. I believe that this debate is not about whether the coverage is good enough. The numbers show it's not perfect, but it's at least as good as FM stereo. I think some of the things that are the debate here relate to the cost of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e400	As the responsible State Council, you are responsible for what is actually happening when it is your watch. State Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen pushed the roll-call decision from 2011 in front of it again and again in its post. So my simple question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think it's right, from his point of view, to turn off the FM network from January?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e405	In the role I have as the Council of State, I am obliged to follow up the decision of the Enlargement whether I like it or not. I think, for example, Everyone knows that I represent a party that is not for road toll financing, and would do it another way. Through our government participation, we have been able to make some decisions and get the Stortinget to vote differently from what would have happened if we were in opposition. We have also managed to remove a number of toll stations where the Centre Party-Work Party government decided to bring them up. Negotiations include: In the government we have managed to remove them again. That's the way we're getting averages too much. But at the same time, it means that I also have to accept that the bulk of the population requires us to use toll collection. It's some of the ropes of being the Council of State that you also have to participate in and implement decisions that you initially don't like. I think everyone knows what the Progress Party thinks about DAB and FM. No one has opposed DAB, but one has been against shutting down the FM network because it imposes heavy costs on people. But as the Council of State, I implement the decisions of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e412	The cord shift is over. First, I want to be allowed to say that I feel a little innocently drawn into the DAB debate. This is because the Stortinget – repeated by the representative Grande today – claims that the Minister for Fisheries is responsible for safety along the coast. Then, for the sake of order, I must be allowed to say that readiness at sea at all is not under my constitutional responsibility. This does not mean, however, that the Minister for Fisheries is not concerned with the well-being of the fishermen and the safety of the fish. As regards safety at sea, the Minister of Industry is responsible for the regulations relating to ships and crew. Then it is the Minister of Transport who, through the Coastal Agency, is responsible for the safety of the fairways, i.e. what is going on infrastructure. Therefore, I will be allowed to quote the following from the Minister of Industry – I have good coverage for this, so I do not go beyond my powers in this context: ‘The active DAB or FM frequency is part of the emergency communication required by the Maritime Directorate’s regulations. All communications required at sea are on frequencies VHF and satellite. [[high frequency]] The Maritime Directorate has informed that they do not see any safety arguments either for or against the DAB versus the FM network. These frequencies are not part of the emergency communication required by the directorate’s regulations. All communications required are on the frequencies VHF, MF, and HF and satellite. This is also why the Maritime Directorate has not been involved in the discussion. Coastal radio stations such as Bodø radio or Rogaland radio use the above frequencies/connections for both safety, emergency and emergency messages, as well as spherical and storm warnings.» So it's like this – and I hear more people repeating it, so there's no doubt about it now – that the Progress Party was the only party that was against the closure of the FM network in 2011. Then I also remember the debate in 2007, to which the representative Skei Grande refers. There was a broad majority at the time that adopted closure, which of course this government is obliged to follow up, and that is done. But DAB coverage at sea was not in the criteria from the large majority. Sea cover was not a requirement in the 2011 majority decision. It came into the project in retrospect after an initiative by the NRK, and that's because the coverage at sea, of course, is very important. There's no doubt about it. Therefore, the NRC has established a criterion for DAB coverage at least 50 km from country. The NRK has also established its own weather channels on DAB for small boats and coastal fishing fleets. In June and August, the Rescue Company, together with the NRK, was out on measurement tours several places along the coast. The report on DAB coverage at sea concludes that the coverage map and the theoretical calculations in the areas are in line with reality. Then there are concerns, especially in Northern Ireland, that will first turn off the FM network, and there are especially some transmitters like Skomvær and Værøy. This has been confirmed and guarantees for today: These antennas should be up and go before the net is shut down. I am then reassured, but it is clear that for the fishing industry, the fishermen – regardless of the category they belong to – will be a cost issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e437	It is good that the Minister for Fisheries takes responsibility for the fishermen and is calm, but the Progress Party has raised doubts about the preparedness for the closure of the FM network in 2017, and it strengthened them strongly yesterday. The size has set clear criteria for what is to be put in place before closure and, as is known, the Nordic countries are first out with closure, it is due to take place on 11 January. Messages are received daily from worried users. Coastal fishermen are unsure whether they are receiving radio signals for this year’s locot fishing, and this uncertainty was exacerbated yesterday by the fact that the Stortinget Progress Party group created uncertainties about the readiness to be maintained equally well or better by the closure of this network. Today, if we are to stand firm on the phase-out, that it will go as planned, we must have an insurance from the government, and not just from the Right, that the preparedness will be at least as good as it is today. My question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State, which is also Vice-President of the Advancement Party, give such a guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e442	I said from the Chair that I have no constitutional responsibility as the Council of State for Maritime Safety, and at least I have no responsibility to Stortinget as Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party. I think I've explained my position quite thoroughly in that way. So it's not like it's just right in government. The Party of Progress in Government with Responsible Governments follows up to the point and points the criteria and the requirements laid down by the 2011 General Decision. I cannot, as the Council of State, be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e447	It's good that we get a arrangement along the coast as well. It's not like the Stortinget has not made demands for FM coverage even off our coast strip. We have said that there should be coverage where there is FM coverage today. It's good that you've taken it seriously. But my question to the Council of State, which is also Vice-President of the Advancement Party, is nevertheless: does the Council of State see any reason to maintain the FM network? And will he encourage the Stortinget to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e452	This question has been answered by government councils before me too. I don't think it's my job as a councillor to recommend or give leadership for what the Storting is going to vote on different issues. I have too much respect for the Storting in that way. I've been at the Stortinget since 1997, and my respect for the Storing is much greater than that I'm going to dictate someone in the Storing to vote one or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e457	I registered that the Council of State was concerned with the safety of the fish. That's good. But I think the Council of State is probably also concerned with the safety of fishermen and coastal fishermen. I saw the Norwegian Fiskarlag out with a clear call to Stortinget yesterday that one should postpone the closure because it was not considered good enough listening conditions at DAB. Does the Minister for Fisheries think it would be wise to listen to the fishermen in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e462	As a fisheries minister, of course, I have met with both the fishing team, the fishing boat and others, because these concerns must be taken seriously. As I said, maritime safety was not within the criteria adopted in 2011, this has come later. I think that's very important that you get in place there as well. And then I also pointed out the possibilities that are outside of DAB, that is, communication tools that the fishermen have. But that's a cost question, of course. Then I register that the NRK is following up on this in the future, because it is not complete mapping, but there is a significant mapping going on. The fishing team shall include, inter alia: pointed to Skomvær and Værøy as problems, but there the county council in the Nordic countries has given a positive decision to grant a derogation to set up these antennas on Skomvær and the like on Værøy. There I have been assured that these antennas will be up and go before shutting down in Northern Ireland. This process is not finished, it is likely that processes will appear in the future as well, holes that need to be covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e469	I get my annual customs duty fixed when the Left sat in government. I think the Left would always sit in government, also in 2007, but that was a few years before. Sjøl if Sandberg is not responsible for safety, he is responsible for good working conditions for the fishermen who work along our coast. One of the things I pointed out is that you put a lot of channels into DAB, which makes the quality poor, the sound quality bad. It gets bad for us who sit on land listening to music, but it gets extremely bad for the fishermen along our coast, who get the worst quality of sound delivered. So they're the ones in small, dunking motorboats out on the sea, who are going to hear what the weather forecast is, who are being assigned the worst sound quality in the new DAB system. What does the Minister for Fisheries think about us offering such poor employment to our fishermen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e477	Let me first say that at least I agree very much with what Mr. Skei Grande said from the Chair earlier, that it is a little strange that we politicians should decide which technical solutions are to be established. That's exactly where we agree. Then there are also these concerns I have received, especially from the coastal fleet, that you are actually operating alone. It's inside the cabin or out on the deck, and a coastal fisherman is mostly out working. It is clear that these challenges still exist today, but it is clear that I do not think we should be concerned about the concerns that come from there, and hope and believe that there must be technical solutions that will also enable the coastal fishermen to feel the security and security of their working situation in the future. Vessel design and equipment design are in progress, which must be organised to a much greater extent in order to ensure this type of safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e484	During the day, a suggestion may be made here in the SV Size page, which reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to follow closely the closure of the FM network and to ensure on an ongoing basis that the preparedness is not hit and that the coverage is met in line with the Storting assumptions.’ Will Per Sandberg, in cooperation with his colleague in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, take personal responsibility for following up on the part of the marine preparedness and security?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e494	Now I said in the past that I as the Council of State should be very careful to recommend Stortinget anything, but I think the proposal that is from SV here, is wise. It is also quite natural that the government should follow as closely as possible and follow this process forward in terms of safety at sea, but also fully follow and close the holes that may have to appear in the future. Of course, along with my colleague, Minister of Industry Monica Mæland, I will follow this up to the best of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e499	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e504	Let me first refer to the presentation under case 1, and then say a few words about big technology shifts, because it always creates challenges. It's not more than a year since we noticed that we had carried out a huge technology shift in the new emergency network that the emergency situation and a number of others are now using to the full. It was a work that started very many years ago, I think we're talking about 18 years ago, and that's for about. a year ago was marked as being nationally developed. Although one then somehow got connected to the emergency network so that it is now used across the country, there will still be coverage challenges in some places. On the other hand, the Emergency Communications Directorate is out to fix, replace or close black holes. So I think it's important when we're talking about both technology shifts in general and readiness in particular, that one also means that we never get into a situation where everything is 100 pst. safe, safe and inviolable. There will always be vulnerabilities. I think that is why it is important to bring with me the report that DSB came with – I said December 3rd in my post on case 1, it is December 2nd that is the right date. There they point to just this: even though things are safe, even if things work, they could also be vulnerabilities. Then it's important to keep following up on how one can seal those vulnerabilities to the greatest extent possible. I think it's important to bring it along, also into the further discussion about how to work with technological security in the future. The government has announced that before Christmas we will present our own social security message. We have announced that we will provide a separate follow-up to the settings of the Lynne Committee through a separate monitoring message on ICT security. It's because evolution is going very fast, and there are new challenges that are being created. When a major technology changer is implemented, it will always be such that a person is able to regain some vulnerabilities, but it can also help to detect new vulnerabilities. It is then important that one in the ongoing follow-up work actually has the ability to close the vulnerabilities to the greatest extent possible. I'm very pleased that DSB's conclusion is that ‘The preparedness consequences of the closure of the FM network and the transition to DAB are uncertain, but most likely small’. I have to admit that one of the main reasons why I now took the word again, without conveying so much more than what I did in my previous post, was that I assumed that there might have been a change of lines after the presentation. It didn't happen, but it's possible now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e524	I have a very simple yes/no question to the Minister of Justice, and that is whether the Minister of Justice will recommend the closure of the FM network from an emergency point of view in January?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e529	It is very easy then to refer to what I both said in my presentation, and what I just said – and I am dealing with the professional recommendations that have come: there are no emergency reasons why you cannot implement the decision to collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e534	I registered that the State Council Sandberg thought that the proposal from SV was wise, and my question to the State Council Anundsen is then whether he thought that the proposal from the Progress Party is wise?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e539	The Government implements the decisions taken by the Stortinget at all times, and deals with it, regardless of how wise or unwise the proposals are.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e544	One of the reasons I have brought forward the Progress Party and the fact that they have pointed out that security and preparedness can be compromised by shutting down the FM network is what they write in the comments on the setting. They point to, among others: the fact that ICT Norway has been aware that DAB will weaken preparedness and that from next year more accidents may be at risk. Furthermore, they write: ‘These members refer to the first, and most important, appeals for security.’; I wonder what dialogue has been like between the Progress Party on the Stortinget and the government on this, as they actually use security and preparedness as an important reason not to shut down the FM network. Do the Councils agree with these comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e555	I am very pleased that the representative Thomsen, who is the spokesman of the party on this issue, from the pulpit said that he was assured by the statement now given to the Stortinget, and that he takes note of the information that comes there. I think that's essentially an adequate answer. I then assume that it is an expression that they are satisfied with the content of the statement regarding preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e560	The proposal from the Center Party is to suspend the connection to the FM network and not a suggestion against DAB. All the positive things that the government has said about DAB in the past are good and good, but for the Central Party, it's about taking the listeners seriously and taking it seriously. We've received so many alarm messages from people around us, from among others. The fishing team and from ICT Norway, we think it's right to suspend the FM network. So I've heard that the coverage is based on a theoretical coverage model and not enough physical coverage measurements. Don't the government council think there's a reason to provide evidence of real coverage before you start shutting down the FM network?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e567	Let me first say that one of the very clear conclusions of the DSB report that I have referred to in previous articles is that a suspension of the closure of the FM network will have no positive preparedness consequences, because the challenges are related to the technology shift itself. So you just postpone the replacement anyway, even if it has no response. It's an important element, I think, in such a picture. In terms of coverage, I have to relate to what those who actually measured the coverage are expressing. I do not have any other professional competence that would indicate that those measurements are incorrect. However, some control measurements have been carried out in practice, both at sea and at land. A number of practical tests have been carried out, including: roadside testing and the tests show that there is a high degree of consistency between the theoretical calculation models and the practical tests. So, as I also mentioned instead, it will always be so that one has to be able to close holes along the way in a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e576	Now the Minister of Justice and several other Councils of State have done their best to ensure that they believe that the preparedness for our best knowledge is good, it is preserved. The Minister of Justice has confirmed that a postponement will not help the problem, because the technology shift itself constitutes the little uncertainty. And we've got the right from the Progress Party that they feel that it's well done, and that they're happy with the readiness here in this room. Nevertheless, there is a situation where the Progress Party will propose something else and vote against its own government on a central question, and they have sent reading posts around the country and the beach, where they explain it. with the standby. My question to the Minister of Justice is: if he in his own field were to have a situation in which one of the parties in the Stortinget voted against what he himself stood for and presented to the Stortinget, after having been documented that what he himself says is correct and accepted documentation, how would he characterize such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e581	I don't feel that's the situation. I think the representative Thomsen from the pulpit was quite clear that the consumer perspective was also important when the Progress Party had to decide on its position in the UK, and that they have taken the view that the statement from the government on social security and preparedness is satisfactory. So I mean the situation that the representative is drawing is not the same situation that we're now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e591	This debate has shown that several parties are now aware that there is no desire for a postponement of the FM closure itself. I am very pleased about that, and I am also pleased that the information given by the government to the Stortinget in the past, which is publicly known, and which is repeated today, is part of and reassures the Storting that the preparedness has been preserved. So if the matter itself that we have to deal with. Any delay will be very negative for the broadcasters that have invested large sums in confidence in the decisions of the Storting. I have to clarify something that has been said from the pulpit earlier, about the extra costs of operating two parallel networks, which are worth about 200 million. kr, and for which the Central Party is now actually in charge. It's not the Stortinge that's going to grant it, it's the broadcasters you send that bill to. Broadcasters pay rent to Norkring, and it's this rent that costs 200 million. kr, and as I expect from the Center Party is in dialogue with the broadcasters if the broadcasters have the opportunity to pay for it. In addition to imposing such an extra cost on broadcasters after they have done what the Storting has expressed their wish, a large number of consumers have also upgraded to DAB, purchased radios and adapters. All 71 pst. by Norwegian households now have a DAB radio, and that is because for many, many years — almost 16 years — politicians in Norway have had high expectations that a technology shift will take place and that consumers will have to participate in the effort to move from FM to DAB. In Northern Ireland, DAB is now the most widely used listening platform. DAB is in front of FM and Internet radio. It turns out that the listeners, with their high standards of quality and diversity, are involved in bringing the radio media into a digital age. I think there is reason to remind you that the DAB network provides a better radio service for the whole country, and that will be particularly noticeable for many in District Norway. We who live in town are all right. We have a lot of good-quality channels, while people in the districts like to listen to just a few channels, and in the FM network, it continues to scramble a lot. That's why it's very surprising that the Central Party is presenting this proposal here today, which will lead to the radio provision for people in the district in particular not getting any better. The technology shift requires some of us as consumers. We can't expect this to happen completely without friction, and the concerns that come from people, we're going to take it seriously. We now know that a lot of the wrong sources are, for example: is associated with installing the adapters incorrectly, or the antenna is not grounded. There are such things that many consumers get help by contacting the call centres or others, not least the staff of the NRK, who have the opportunity to move out and help people. Most of the points DSB addresses in its report are the same as we've been concerned about. I am very pleased with the Minister of Justice's statement, which is clear that this report, which was published on Friday, does not leave any doubt that the preparedness has been preserved. And although Stortinget has not previously claimed sea cover, I am pleased that the NRK has taken the initiative to measure it. I will follow developments in the coverage carefully to ensure that preparedness is maintained. I agree with the rapporteurs that good coverage is absolutely central, and I therefore also think that the proposal as an EN today is a good one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e614	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e619	It must be a completely new practice that governments cannot recommend anything to the Stortinget, either by their own party or by the government's conclusions. I think we have never experienced that before, and my question is: Does the Minister for Culture feel that she has government support when her fellow Councillors cannot recommend the Stortinge to support the Minister for Culture's conclusions in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e624	I am aware that I am part of a government that follows the decision of the Storting. We have. This matter was dealt with by the government before I was appointed Minister of Culture a year ago. This government follows up on what the Workers' Party and the Centre have worked for, and as several cultural ministers from the Red-Green Government presented in the Stortinget and was adopted in Stortinget. We are now implementing what we have been asked to do, and I am very pleased that the Workers' Party now also assures that a closure can be undertaken as planned from January, and that people experience predictability from the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e630	The Council of State has been very clear about the consequences of having a majority in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party on this matter, with major economic implications for the broadcasters. For the NRK alone, maintaining the FM will cost between 60 and 70 kroner in an increased licence annually. That means 90-100 kroner more than the government has proposed in the State budget. A natural consequence of the proposal of the Progress Party on this matter would have been that they submitted – and they still have time to do so until the Committee reading in the Culture Committee by Friday – proposals for an increase in the licence of DKK 90-100. Has the Minister of Culture reported that the Progress Party in the Government has called for an increase in the licence in line with his own proposal in the UK in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e635	I think the representative of Grande is very well aware that I am not referring to what is being discussed in the government conferences and internally in the government. I am also not in the Committee on Culture and I can be in the final phase of the budgetary procedure with comments, as the representative knows. What I'm worried about is the proposal that the Central Party is now making, after being an avid champion of DAB, is to apply an extra bill to the broadcasters in the year of 200 million. kr towards 2019, and then it will increase considerably again. Such unforeseeableness, and the fact that the Center Party is turning its heel without any professional argument to do so, bothers me, but I am glad that the Workers' Party has today decided to follow the closure as planned, and that the DAB network can be launched from January.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e642	Although I disagree with the proposal of the Central Party, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that the Central Party has, after all, incorporated the consequences of the proposal into its alternative state budget, because it actually means something economic. This has not been done by the Progress Party. On the contrary, the Progress Party has proposed a reduction in the NRC economy. They have not at all taken into account the consequences of their own proposal which they have promoted in this matter. In addition, the Progress Party has used preparedness as its first and main argument against the closure of the FM. It also repeats in the setting on which this matter is based. It seems that the Minister of Culture is more concerned about the proposal of the Centre Party than is the fact that she has a government party that uses the emergency situation as the main argument. Does this mean that the Minister of Culture believes that we should not care what the Progress Party believes in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e647	The reason why I am commenting on the proposal of the Centre Party today is precisely that it is the proposal of the Centre Party we are discussing. That's why we're gathered in Stortinget to discuss their proposal for the closure of the FM network. It might have been a little special if I hadn't commented on it. But when that is said, I note that the Progress Party from the Chair today says that this is not about the need for preparedness, it is about a consumer perspective. I record that it was the Labour Party that went to the pulpit yesterday, and referred to a single opinion on preparedness and concern related to it. I think it's good that the Workers' Party continues as they have used to do, that is to put trust in professional investigations, reports and evaluations as the basis for its decisions in the Storting, and that it will lead our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e652	The reason I mentioned these 200 million. kr in my statement, and that this would have budgetary implications, is the fact that the Progress Party is against licensing. At least it would be difficult for the Progress Party to argue that this is the licence to be used. But enough about it. As far as consumers are concerned, the Minister of Culture was honest that it may not be completely free of friction. That's the way it is, and I guess that's the way it was when we went from black-and-white to color-tv. I want to draw out the DSB report anyway, because I don't think it's possible to lean back and think: it's not completely friction-free, but we hope it's okay. This is because one of the recommendations is that targeted information against vulnerable groups in the population is something we need to look at. I wonder how the Minister of Culture has intended to follow up on just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e659	I am very pleased with the report that was published on Friday, and believe that it is also important for the decision that Stortinget now takes. I am therefore pleased that it now seems to be supporting the SV's proposal that we come back and inform the Storting about how the shutdown goes. As the representative points out, the DSB report points out that a postponement will not lead to better preparedness, because it is precisely the closure that is vulnerable. That's when we have to keep extra watch over those who need it the most, and I'm going to follow it, along with the broadcasters. We are very committed to following this, day by day, from starting in January in Northern Ireland, so that we can apply new measures if necessary to the groups that the representative points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e664	There are very unclear signals from the government parties in this debate, so for us who live in the countryside, it kind of reminds us of a DAB radio, really. The signals change all the time, and it's very hacked, so at least there's a line going from the government. So a question to the Minister of Culture, because the Minister of Culture also chooses to push ahead with the fact that there are other government councils before her who have made the decisions, that she is only obliged to implement what other government councils have done, and spent time in their speeches on it. Now the Minister of Culture is responsible for the State Council. The state councils that were up here instead also spent the time saying that it wasn't they who decided this, it was they before them. Does the government think that the decisions that have been taken before are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e671	For my own part, as Minister of Culture, this has not been very difficult, because I have a party in Stortinget that has always been clear that we have been for DAB. But anyway, as part of the government, and as the representative Vedum also knows well, we shall follow up decisions taken in the Stortinget. The decision that the criteria set by the Stortinget for dealing with the DAB case had been followed up was taken by the former Minister of Justice. I am the one who will be responsible for implementing the closure in January. I'm going to follow it carefully. I'm also going to come back to Stortinget to report on how the very closure goes, considering the preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e676	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e683	The Labour Party was for DAB, and we're for DAB, given that the assumptions adopted by the Storting are met. We have to be able to see people in our eyes and say just that, that the assumptions we made, among other things. if prepared, proceed as planned. The round today has been clarifying in this way. Governments confirm that there is no cause for concern related to preparedness. What is a cause for concern is the game we see that the Progress Party is doing in the Chamber today, but not least – and more worrying – what they have been doing with land and beach around the last year, where representatives of the Progress Party in Stortinget travel around and undermine the responsibility and the work of the Government Progress Party is set to do with implementing the DAB development and the decommissioning of the FM network. That's why we're here today. That's why there's created doubt about what's happening. That's why people are worried. Yes, there is much because of the representatives of the Progress Party and their arguments – misinformation and allegations that preparedness is weakened by the introduction of DAB. The representative Thomsen said to the Newspaper recently of the extinguishment must be scrapped in order to take into account the impact this has on the preparedness and security of society. That is why the Progress Party should stop this. In the setting they go so far that they write that it's about life and health. Fortunately, the government councils of the Progress Party are aware that this is wrong. Stand by. The Progress Party in Stortinget is wrong. But then the Progress Party comes with other arguments. Now, the representative Thomsen and his colleagues are using as an argument not to extinguish the fact that people have not converted their car radios or bought new radios. Is that so very strange? If you were to follow the arguments and calls of the Progress Party, there would be no reason to buy new radios. Well, the progress party was supposed to fix the steak and stop the whole thing. This with the costs and the practical challenges that people get when implementing DAB and so much technology change, was of course part of the calculation when we adopted what we did, because it's not unproblematic. But we still chose to do that, because we think that the overall solution will be better for people when implementation is fully done. And people have invested: they have invested in radios, car transmitters and adapters for their radios. And the industries have invested. It's too late to turn around. I believe that the suspension and the Advance Party have argued with the last year, and the reverse operation they are currently conducting in the Stortingen argument, makes it necessary for the representatives of the Advance Party to come up to this pulpit and say that they have made mistakes in the emergency situation, and that they rely on their government councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e698	We who hear and see the NRK, do not lack advertising information for the excellence of DAB technology. It's just advantages, say it. But one should not go far from Marienlyst to get other information. If one is located outside the big cities, in the car in a tunnel, or in a built-up out in the district, unfortunately the DAB radio is many places for little use. The excellence and availability of technology are oversold. The Family and Culture Committee makes a large number in the nomination that the Centre Party in 2011 was for the closure of the FM network. Yeah, that's because we prided ourselves on the information that DAB would reach out to everyone, and that it would represent better radio access for everyone. Now we know that that's not true. It also acknowledges the consideration of the Family and Culture Committee. Then I believe that Stortinget is wiser to be more concerned with new facts than with what the Center Party did in 2011. Listening to Finnmark County Municipality, fishermen and residents in the district don't consider me a weakness. That exercise should try to do more than the centrelot. The centre has recognised that DAB technology is not available to all and that the emergency situation in the mountains, at sea and along the roads will be weakened. We're getting more and more cabins in the mountains, and we're not going to be able to listen to radio anymore, with the security challenges it's going to provide. We believe that the extinguishment has to be postponed until the DAB technology has the same geographical and quality coverage as the FM network. But the majority of the committee doesn't want to take over the many facts that show that it actually doesn't work. They're hiding behind the state council, which says it's well documented that the Storting's assumptions are met, and they close their ears to all the feedback that a get from people around the country that it actually doesn't work like that in practice. I want to remind the majority of some facts that should be known already: only 23 pst. of the car park has DAB radio. Foreign car combinations and tourists in Norway are easily reached through digital radio, with the consequences it will have for preparedness. Finnmark County Municipality has sent a letter to the Ministry of Culture asking for deferred closure. I can also add that the Swedish National Audit Office is strongly sceptical about the DAB initiative in a recent report. In this case, we should listen to our neighbours in the East. In Sweden, the importance of listening, the social economy and, above all, preparedness was crucial for politicians to refuse to close down the FM network.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e716	At the beginning of the 1900s, the first broadcasts started, and people were given the opportunity to listen to radio. In Norway, the private broadcasting company started broadcasting in 1925, the NRK took over in 1933, when they were established, and the television came in 1960. The world was united in this technological development. There was nothing Norway did on its own, as we now add up with DAB. Innovation and innovation have always marked the development of society. New technology has replaced old technology, which has essentially led to a positive development and a enrichment for most people. The introduction of television, and then color television, is an example of such enrichment. But is shutting down the FM network a enrichment, and is DAB such a positive new technology? No, it's been 21 years since Norway started with the first trials with DAB, and none of our neighbouring countries have chosen DAB. So a little mark to support Sweden, by dressing in yellow and blue today, I think I'm right, because the Swedes have done what's right. Some compare the coercion of DAB with the introduction of colour televisions and flat screens. It's going to be a completely meaningless comparison, because it was still possible to watch black and white TV even if color TV came, and people don't have to switch to flat screen. But that's not the case with DAB. When the FM network is phased out, state by state and month after month, throughout 2017, it is over. Then it's done, then it's over, then it's over. Then the NRK and all the other big channels disappear, and millions of radios that people most have today become useless. It's not free to switch radio. Most people don't just have one radio, they have several radios. They have radio in the car, in the tractor, in the boat, in the cabin, in the living room, in the kitchen, in the bedroom etc. There'll be a lot of radios, and there'll be a big extra cost of the large number of large sizes that force the Norwegian people completely unnecessary. Think of the elderly, think of the minimum pensioners and others who are struggling financially. Why do big business politicians have to impose a completely unnecessary cost on them? We politicians are elected by the people to represent the people – not to rule, dictate and rule the people. There is no popular requirement to shut down the FM network and coercive DAB. It's the other way around. It's a popular claim to keep the FM. Studies show that a total of 65 pst. will not turn off the FM network and only 16 pst. will turn it off. This is a clear speech and a clear feedback from the people to us politicians. The Progress Party takes the ombudsman role seriously. We listen to the people, and we encourage the rest of the Storting – especially the Workers' Party – to do so too, so that most people do not need to be charged with an extra cost and discomfort.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e729	I am also one of several representatives here in the Chamber who have received many enquiries about DAB and FM, with questions about whether the coverage will be good enough at land or at sea, and questions about security. That is why I am also one of several representatives who have asked the Minister of Culture questions about the matter and received insurance from her. Today, we have also received insurance from three other government councils, from the Progress Party, particularly on preparedness. These are messages I bring back to people in my county. It is important to be able to respond to people's uncertainties. It is important that the State Councils provide the insurance they provide, it is important that good coverage measurements have been made, and it is important that good information is provided to all citizens about the transition to DAB. This information has obviously reassured more people and not just SV. Since the SV’s representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes announced in August a proposal to stop the FM closure, SV has today made proposals to ask the government to follow – a good proposal otherwise. But the information has also affected the Progress Party, which today is not talking about security, but about the problem is that people have to buy a new radio. But the Progress Party has created uncertainty, doubts about security, and it is not a single opinion. In the notes they write that the main appeal point is about safety, and they refer to life and health. It is possible that the Progress Party has real concerns about the transition from FM to DAB. In that case, we have heard today four different government councils calm. But if this is a political mark to win voters despite the knowledge they've gained, it's irresponsible. The question of getting a radio coverage when a driver runs through Nord-Troms is important to those drivers. It's impractical to run for hours with poor and varying coverage. For a fisherman at sea, radio coverage is actually a matter of life and health. When a government party tells them that no, you may not get the weather forecast on the radio with the system the government is preparing – yes, it quickly creates the impression that responsible authorities are gambling with people's lives and safety. We can't have it like that. Of course, this is not the case either, and if there was a danger to life and health when this system was introduced, I expect that the Progress Party in the government track line would put the foot down a long time ago. You can disagree on the matter – that's fine. To disagree in fact is something completely different. Today, four different government councils have assured us that coverage and preparedness are satisfactory – and that they will follow along. I and other representatives from the districts are also going to follow this case carefully and listen to people's feedback, follow up with the continuation of the rectification, and hold the responsible for the further process. But I hope that no one else in this room is going to play on people's uncertainties in this case, which some have made up for now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e742	It should not be surprising that the Progress Party has disagreed with the plans for the closure of the FM network. We have had the same position since 2011 and were the only party that voted against the plans for the closure of the FM network when dealing with the case in Stortinget in 2011. For the sake of order: SV, Right, Left, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Workers' Party therefore voted in favour of the closure of the FM network during 2017. So the Center Party has recently jumped around and caught up with some signals that this case is actually a challenge for residents around the country's municipalities, and found out that such a closure is actually not a good solution. No later than the 2016 Progress Party national meeting, it was decided that the party would work to maintain the FM network. So there have always been clear signals from the Progress Party that should have been received by the other political parties. However, it is clear that in 2011, when the decision was taken, it was more concentrated to be on transmitters for their own case of DAB than to be on receiver and receive signals both from the Advance Party and from the country’s inhabitants that the closure of the FM network was not a satisfactory solution. The attitude became that it's the people who don't understand, and that DAB is the only right solution. But what is this really about? Well, this case is about people over the whole country, in houses and homes, people driving cars, people at sea, on a cabin, on a job or on a trip. Not least, this case is also about the fact that for many older people who have had FM radio through a long life, it has always symbolized a security and proximity to society around it. The closure of the FM network will entail additional costs and considerable talk and uncertainty, in particular for many older people in the country. It must also be possible to add that throwing millions of fully usable radios will be completely meaningless. And if there's any doubt: the Progress Party has always been for freedom of choice, and that people have to be able to choose what kind of networks they want to use, and whether they're going to spend several thousand dollars on new radios. By the way, you can also take into account that there are actually many people who do not have the ability to use up to several thousand kroner to get updated on new radios. In this case, the progress party has always been set up for the recipient and received the signals from the country's residents and has therefore promoted a separate proposal where we want to keep the current FM network.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e755	On the radio we can hear everything from news, weather reports and traffic messages to customs, serious talk, knowledge dissemination and music. So the radio supply to people in our country is something the Storting must take seriously. There is every reason to worry if it turns out that the bulk of the population is not taking seriously the fact that shutting down the FM network from over Christmas has consequences that are unacceptable. When, in 2011, the Stortinget, with the support of us in the Central Party, decided that DAB would terminate the FM, it was with clear indications that DAB had to make a good enough offer. Today, the population coverage is referred to by the government – that the population coverage is 99.7 percent with DAB. It sounds good, although the important thing is that the coverage is measured geographically, so that it is not just every person who lives, but also where they travel and behave, that is measured. The radio listeners are the core here. And we have to be a few about who's going to have access to the radio. We in the Center Party believe it is obvious that everyone who has access to the FM today must have access to DAB of good quality before any one should shut down the FM network. Therefore, we will delay shutting down the FM network until there is evidence that the DAB technology provides added value for the listeners. It's not okay that people in many places will actually lose access to the radio next year, and this also poses a threat to preparedness. DAB was a new and exciting radio technology developed at the end of the 1980s. The centre party supports the deployment of new technologies. But it's worth listening when even ICT Norway warns against shutting down FM. Norway is the only country in the world that has decided to close the FM network. It doesn't make sense all the time DAB technology doesn't have enough spread in our country. Under 30 p.m. of the car park has DAB radio. Those who do not replace the FM radio in their cars, and foreign tourists and foreign professional drivers, will not be able to get traffic messages on radio if we close the FM network. For me, this smells of immodest. And when something's wrong, it might be best to wait for a winner to make sure everything's all right. Then I have a comment on Ib Thomsen's posts, where he generously advised us in the Center Party to say what it is. My answer is, that's exactly what we're doing, we're honest that we've changed our mind about the time of closing down the FM network. The party of progress has meant the same thing about FM all the time, but since a government finally got the power to do something about it, it doesn't have a finger on it. Only when the Senterpartiet took business and submitted a proposal for treatment in Stortinget did the Progress Party come back on the track. But to vote in favour of our proposal today on postponing the closure of the FM network, they will not. It's not too bad for the Center Party that we don't get multiple numbers today, it's about the readiness and the listeners we're busy with. It's not about playing on people's insecurity, as the representative Martin Henriksen said, but about taking people's security seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e774	I record that several people are trying to present this as if the Progress Party disagreed with itself. I then recommend that they read a little more about parliamentaryism. Every sitting government is obliged to implement the decisions of the Stortinget, no matter how stupid they may be. In 2011, Stortinget – against the votes of the Progress Party – decided to close the FM network in January 2017. Today, we have received a good report from the Minister of Justice and Security, summarising the fulfilment of Storting's 2011 intentions and criteria, and that we can therefore implement the planned closure of the FM network, which was decided by the majority in 2011 against the votes of the Progress Party. The Progress Party is still opposed to the closure of the FM, but the Government is obliged to comply with the Storting decision until a new one is available. The issue today is the possibility of taking a new decision. The size shall now decide either to postpone this for a further two years as proposed by the Central Party, to stop the closure altogether, as proposed in the Progress Party, or to proceed with the 2011 Decision. In May, the Progress Party held a national meeting, in which we adopted a resolution from the Advance Party in Rogaland to continue to fight for the FM network to be closed, a resolution on the consumer perspective. All FM radios in houses and homes, in cars, tractors and stereos, hearing protection with radio, radios in plant machines and in boats will stop operating in counties after the state of 2017. Norway has experienced increasing tourism in recent years, particularly in residential tourism. These, and others who travel into the country by car or motorcycle, could be at risk of the radio not working. One of the premises for closure was that we should follow developments in our neighbouring countries, and in Sweden they have decided to shut down the FM. We believe it is unwise for Norway to be a leading country to shut down the FM network. It will be expensive for many families, drivers and boaters to replace the radios. It is estimated that more than 10 million radios will be useless and end up on dung, and there is poor environmental and consumer policy. In the light of budget decisions we made on Monday, is it perhaps on old radios that we should introduce a wreckage scheme? In conclusion, I very much appreciate the fact that the centre party has now taken part in the understanding, as they want to postpone the shutdown. I should have liked to have seen that in the government position they had had the same commitment to FM that they now have in opposition. If they had listened to us in 2011 and had not contributed to the decision of their own majority government, the whole closure could have been avoided now. It is a saying that is called ‘better late than never’, but unfortunately it does not match in this case. Based on today's debate, it looks like the Centre Party has woken up too late, and that the closure of the FM network starts next year, as the Center Party originally decided, and wanted, in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e789	If Nordland pulled the winning weight or blacked out by being the first state, the time will show. I get at least a lot of enquiries from Northerners who are afraid that they will lose the sound on the radio after 11 January, precisely because they have purchased DAB radio and still have no sound in it. In any case, it is most serious that one of the government parties questioned security and preparedness. We have a lot of fishermen in Nordland. The Minister of Justice and Security acknowledged the need to conduct several maritime coverage studies. I assume that the Minister for Fisheries is concerned that the safety of fishermen – he said – and that he is careful not to shut down the FM network until the safety of fishermen is ensured. Now I don't know if the Minister for Fisheries has been involved in fishing. Even as the daughter of two chess fishermen, I have been on loot fishing. The first thing we started the day with was listening to the weather forecast. At that time the weather forecast was at ten o'clock in six o'clock, it was long, and it was detailed. Only after we had heard it, was it taken a position: Shall we go to sea today, or not? The Minister of Fisheries referred to the VHF radio, which actually sends both a spherical warning and a longer weather report during the day. It is great for us who are boat tourists. But the shark fisherman does not sit in the rudder house and listen to it, he or she is on deck and fisherman. The VHF uses the scarf fisherman when the scarf is on its way against the shear. Then it is often too late to listen to the weather forecast. So to most people, there are a lot of people who have heard that the reason they don't get a radio on DAB is because they don't have a technical insight, they have the wrong antenna, they have the wrong adapter, they have your fault and they have the wrong date. When you drive a car and some places have sound on the DAB radio, while you don't have it elsewhere, I find it hard to understand that there is something wrong with the equipment. The coverage is said to be as good as for FM stereo. So it's a bad consolation for us who live in FM mono-land. It's actually a part that lives there, too. You have area coverage versus population coverage. So for those who live in those areas that don't have coverage, it's very small that everyone else has coverage. Remember, we're talking about a lot of pensioners, and the only sound they have in the house during the day is actually radio. I would recommend the Minister of Culture to create a very specific information brochure that tells what kind of antenna, equipment and radio you need to get in the DAB, and send the brochure in the mail to everyone who lives in the Nordic region. Just be careful: not on a Saturday, because you don't have mail either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e804	I get to take the chance, this could be the last one. To satisfy the Workers' Party, I would like to stress that I trust what our ministers say about security and preparedness. But as the People's Party, I have learned that it is wise to listen to the people, and the Advance Party has listened to the people in this matter. The feedback from users is that DAB has large gaps in coverage and does not replace the FM network as of today. They want to keep the FM network in addition to the DAB. The FM network has large holes per day. Even I move in Eastfold, I actually drive 50,000 miles a year in a densely populated state, which is Eastfold. Of course, I have installed the DAB adapter in the car, but I still experience holes in the cover – even in central locations. I often have to resort to the ordinary FM network. Now the Progress Party wants to stop the connection to the FM network. That's because the disadvantages for users by shutting down obviously are greater than the benefits. I guess it's okay to look at what other countries do. As far as I know, there are very few countries that want to go over to DAB, with many good reasons. One of the reasons is, among other things, that technology has expired, it's getting too old. Are we going to be one of the few countries that implement a system that has expired? It's just a question. Nor is it particularly tourist friendly when those who choose to use a car to visit Norway have to buy an adapter at the border to listen to radio. It might be a good store, but it doesn't make sense. I think we should put the brakes on and think about one more time before we continue to introduce a system that very few other countries in Europe think is good enough, without having other alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e817	When this case was being dealt with in 2011, we in the Center Party were very concerned that the day, if any, the FM network would be shut down, some conditions would be in place. It seems that most people who have spoken today have forgotten, they have forgotten to read the settings before the debate. If you read the setting, it's pretty clear which premises should be in place. For example, the majority were concerned that most other European countries are going through the same technology shift. That premise is now gone. It is very clear in the comments that there should be ‘an added value for the listeners before the final date for closure’ for the FM network – just out what we are discussing right now. It says that there should be ‘good solutions for automotive radio receivers’ before the FM network shuts down in 2017. There is a direct indication that you can postpone the closure until 2019 if you are not satisfied with the coverage that is at that time. It says to have the equivalent coverage of P1 in the FM band if you want to turn it off in 2017. So it's premise, on the premise, on the premise in the 2011 suspension that makes it clear that the majority of the population was concerned that there would be openings here if the offer was not good enough, and that's why we made that postponement proposal, because the offer is not good enough, and that's so much trouble. Then you can sit in Stortinget and say that people don't understand how to install radio or they don't understand their own best or that it's not a problem that there is no radio coverage in the car between the houses, but when we discussed it, it was just that it should have added value for the Norwegian people, not that it should have a lesser value. Our proposal is just to postpone it, not to wind up the DAB bet – that's not what we're talking about, because DAB is there, but that we're still going to have a good and safe offer through FM before we shut it down. Then there was an important thing that happened to Thorhild Widvey as Minister of Culture. She sent a letter on February 18 where she prints out correctly: there will be no specific requirements for land cover in the DAB network – that's Thorhild Widvey's word. That is what has now become the premise of the debate, that there is no need for land requirements. When one reads the setting, one sees that we're not saying that there. So we're going to write that there's going to be equivalent coverage that P1 has in the FM band. And then the Right, when they've gained power with the Advance Party, has been very clear that there is no requirement for land cover. We disagree, because it's very important that you have good radio even when you drive between the houses, and not just in the houses, because it's a very important part of our infrastructure that we have a functioning radio situation. That is why we are also going to vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, because we do not see it as a final decision, but as an opportunity to postpone it a little, and I hope that the other representatives who support our view on postponement will also vote in favour of our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e826	Digital radio switching shall be an improvement in both quality and diversity of radio channels, so-called added value. It will be, but it assumes that you have a well-developed transmission network, and first outside is my home country, Nordland, which is to be shut down on 11 January at 11 a.m. 11 – probably so that we can remember it at all. The most serious thing in this case has been the Progress Party, which has called into question the preparedness both in its comments on the matter today, in the media and not least from the pulpit here yesterday. Therefore, it was absolutely right that we did not deal with this matter yesterday without having it confirmed by the responsible State Councils for Security in their areas. As was said this morning, each State Council has responsibility for preparedness in its own area, and we have today been confirmed by all four that preparedness will not be impaired with the transition in 2017. Nevertheless, the Progress Party stands by its proposal to stop the closure, and this, of course, does not show any particular confidence in its own government. They have said today that they take this into account and are calm in terms of preparedness – that is good – but it must also mean that they do not stand by their remarks in today’s position where they refer to a weakened preparedness, and they can confirm this later in the debate. It is good that you work too hard to improve the coverage, because there is no doubt that there are many people who experience poor coverage, and we have to take this seriously. We receive daily feedback from the inhabitants of Northern Ireland, and so far also from the rest of the country, on the problems that are. But it is also important that those who have these problems report, because I feel that it is taken seriously, and that you try to improve the coverage. Then it's a big challenge that it's only 28 pst. which has DAB in the cars – I see it, but we should also remind ourselves that the day we digitised TV, we were about in the same situation in time towards the transition. I am also pleased that the government finally decided to upgrade the typhoons, i.e. the warning systems, because it took so long for them to be shut down, but as mentioned here today, it was revised that they would be controlled by the emergency network in the future. When it comes to coastal coverage, it's important that we get it in place, and that we put it up for cover, not least for coastal fishermen. There's been a challenge outside Røst, where there's been a large white area, and we've been confirmed in recent days that it's coming in place, and we got confirmation of that today in the case of the Skovær guy. This shows that coordination within the various levels is important, and I encourage the government to ensure that, in the future too, there is good coordination, so that we do not experience such situations. To strengthen the clear message, it makes sense to go ahead of the SV's proposals, where we clearly give responsibility to the government to follow up these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e839	DAB radio is used as a generic term for both DAB and DAB+. Once the real digital radio switch is completed, you will need a DAB+ receiver to listen to all the DAB channels. I and many with me have DAB in the car. We bought DAB at home, on a cabin, in the trailer, etc. But that technology has actually gone out and replaced it with what is now called DAB+. I believe many people have been led to buy DAB radio, rather than DAB+, not least because this is under-communicated. Norway’s Automobile Association considers the DAB problem to be inconclusive, not only in terms of FM, but also the fact that many people who were early out there bought cars equipped with DAB and not the newer system that was finally selected; DAB+. Here are many consumers who at an early stage were tricked into buying the radio of the future, which it actually wasn't – they bought technology that went out quickly. In my opinion, it is therefore almost incomprehensible that we should not only scrap a number of FM radios, but also a number of DAB radios. Many consumers, after the conversion, will have great expenses to keep up with the development, an expense I expect most people would like to be in addition. Most technologists have long seen that the radio of the future is going to be distributed via mobile networks, wifi and satellite, all based on IT technology. Why consumers and radio stations need to invest billions of dollars in new equipment is a mystery when a whole new technology is about to take over. In such an uncertain situation, it would have been much smarter to let the FM network live for a few more years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e848	As a Romanic, I remember the Klöfta transmitter – the famous landmark along the E6 south of the Klöfta, which sent signals on the longwave over large parts of the East. When the Klöfta transmitter was shut down at the turn of the year 1994-1995, it became ramaskrik. The NRK experienced a listening storm, and we were told that now older people no longer heard radio, because they had to go to the acquisition of FM radio. Yes, the Arne Haukvik of the Central Party brought the case to Stortinget, where Minister of Culture Åse Kleveland had to answer. ‘Can the Council of State assess this matter again, as many listeners have had poorer reception conditions?’ asked Haukvik. It's only probably 20 years ago, but certainly the debate we now have is quite similar to the debate that we had then. I think we can establish: it went quite well. At least I don't meet many people who ask us to send on the longwave again. I also remember when we discussed digital TV in the early 2000s. I remember it was one who wrote a heartwarming post, a so-called commentator, and called it the Minister of Culture Valgerd Svarstad Haugland's crooked path. I think digital TV went pretty well, too, I. After careful assessments, I have come to the conclusion that digital solutions have come to be, including digital radio. But the cover must be good. At the latest today, I have received an enquiry from Setskog – it is not far from Oslo, it is located east of Akershus – that there is no DAB coverage. It won't last. Of course, the DAB coverage needs to be expanded, which is also done. So I'd like to add: it sounds like, in today's debate, that it's very good FM coverage absolutely everywhere. That's not true. In many places it is poor FM coverage, and in many places it is now better DAB coverage than it is FM coverage, also in large cabin areas in the mountain resort, to which it has previously been referred. I think it's going well this time, too. In the 1950s, the Storting discussed whether we should introduce television. It was very controversial. That's when Christian People's Party chief Nils Lavik said something like: "If I could take off the TV, I'd do it." It went quite well. Television was not ‘towed’. Exactly 45 years ago, in December 1971, the Stortinget decided by 94 to 34 votes to introduce colour television as a testing scheme. The color television went pretty well. I think it's going well this time, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e872	The President still has his pink transistor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e877	It struck me when the representative, Skei Grande, had his post and said she was afraid of Norwegian music: the music I think about first in this context is «Roo, calm down to fish cutting, how many voices do we get there?» – with regard to our friends from the Advancement Party. They've had some variable arguments to stop the DAB network development. First, it was the technology – it was old-fashioned, not modern – it was the consumer perspective – 20 million radios to be thrown – and then it became ready. First, about old technology. I just want to say it this way: it's the only technology available in the field of radio broadcasting, in order to be able to send radio with digital audio and associated data services. It is also a standardised solution, for which the European Broadcasting Area – or whatever it may be – has defined standards. So I'm sure the technology is good. The fact that you've reached DAB+ today just shows that technology is evolving, that it's just getting better, and there's going to be better space for channels and, not least, better sound. I also want to comment on this with equipment in the car. I bought the first adapters early, and I have to admit that I have looted a lot and have had serious problems arguing that it was right to get DAB. But as the equipment has evolved and you have got the new adapters that switch frequencies yourself, it has become good sound. I received a sound where I had previously not received a sound with the slightly more immoderate adapters. FM has the same problem. We had to switch frequencies in order to get sound, so it's nothing new that the regional block, with which the NRK sends its channels, has to change frequencies when you cross the border areas. Adapters with automatic switching are recommended. I would also like to refer to the points of sale in terms of trying to get the price down, because it is too expensive today. I'll be honest with you. As far as the measurements are concerned, it's not just theory. I'm convinced that it's been driven miles after miles after the highway, just in order to catch up the signals in most places. I know that even in the whole of Finnmark – my own home country – it has been run around on all the roads that need to be accessible, so there you have a very good coverage. Also in areas where we didn't have FM radio, today it's DAB. I think that is also important in view of what was the opening – the main theme – today: security. I want to pay tribute to the state councils that have stood here and confirm that the preparedness has been well maintained in all areas, on the basis of which we took the view that the Storting had previously made its decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e892	I am glad that today we have had two important things fixed. One is that the conditions of the Stortinget have been met for the introduction of DAB, and that the uncertainty that was created about security and preparedness in the network has been cleared up. I want to take this opportunity to thank the state councils, who have answered the questions from Stortinget in a good way and cleared this doubt of the way. I am of those who are technology optimists. I believe that DAB will provide a better offer to the listeners. I mean it gives more channels, it gives more possibilities, it gives better sound. But there are always challenges with technology shifts. That is why I am also very pleased with the proposal that SV has made, and I am pleased with the commitments that the members of the government have taken on, which relate to how they want to follow it up, by following the situation closely. I have also been in dialogue with radio.nrk.no, who is working on the implementation of this. They're also very busy solving problems along the way. I want to spend some time remembering why we are here today, and why we didn't finish this case yesterday. It is therefore the case that the Progress Party, through its comments in the suspension, created uncertainty about the preparedness and security of the deployment of DAB, despite the fact that the responsible State Council, in its letter of 2 November to the Stortinget, says that preparedness will be strengthened. Despite this, the Progress Party has made a proposal. This must mean that the Progress Party does not trust the Minister of Culture's assessment. Yesterday from the pulpit, Thomsen said that security was one of the reasons why they were in favour of the postponement proposal. There are obviously many different views in this Chamber of what parliamentaryism is. I think it is right, as the Minister for Culture said, that the Councils of State must at least be able to comment on the matters we have to deal with and that we can agree on them. What we have for treatment today is Innst. 99 S, but there are also three proposals on the matter. Now several state councils have been challenged to comment on the proposals that are being discussed, but they have not been able to do so. The Minister for Fisheries insisted on describing a proposal that is wise — that is an assessment — but to decide on the other proposals is not clear to the members of the government. I thought some of the government's task was to give the Stortinget government's assessments, so that we could take them into consideration in the debates we're going to have here in the house. Where's the prime minister? This government cracks in all directions — one cannot support the recommendation that DAB should be introduced in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e907	I support DAB, and I proposed it as the State Council for the Stortinget in 2011. It is an obligation for the Council of State to say what is meant by different matters, but in this case a whole new form of parliamentaryism is introduced: the neutral Council of State. Government councils Anundsen, Solvik-Olsen and Sandberg will not tell Stortinget what they think about various proposals, for the sake of Stortinget. So the big picture has asked these state councils a number of questions today, but they refuse to answer. This is not in accordance with the responsibilities of the Council of State in the case of drafts of representatives. On the contrary, these three state councils regularly come to the Storting with recommendations on representative proposals, and in this case several state councils have commented on the various proposals and said something about whether they are wise or unwise. There is no lack of assessments, including: by the Council of State Anundsen. He believes that the party's big group trusts the government in terms of preparedness, but we haven't heard what Ib Thomsen of the Progress Party believes. Is it the case that the Progress Party Group relies on its own government councils for the opinions that preparedness in Norway is getting better with DAB and becomes very good when we shut down the FM network? We need an answer to that in this room. What is a further rush in this case is that the Progress Party refers to what they said in 2011. Does it mean that we can expect that, if a representative proposal is put forward in this Chamber, whether it is about no tolls, for example, no to marriage law or no to smoking law, in line with the earlier opinion of the Progress Party in various votes in this Chamber, the Progress Party will vote in favour of these proposals? Or is it just now? Everyone understands that lack of desire to speak out in this matter has nothing to do with respect for the Storting; it has to do with regard to its own party tactics – the ability to say one thing here and another thing out in the country. The State Council of Hofstad Greece is trying quite helplessly to attack the Workers' Party in this case. Everyone understands that we are the ones who save the government. The Progress Party does not. Monday we had a chaotic situation in this room. The Prime Minister said that the government parties and the cooperation parties now came to act more collectively. On Tuesday and today we get this case. In the field of emergency, this government must have control. Here the government has not even governed its political parties represented on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e920	I think the handling of this matter by the Advance Party is absolutely incredible. We have been presented here for a long time with arguments that the extinguishing of FM weakens readiness. Now we hear that in the debate here it is said that that is not the argument, that is the consumer perspective that is the argument. Well, in the setting behind this debate, the Progress Party writes: Ideally, the FM network should not be closed at all. An important reason is safety and preparedness.» And they further write that the first, and most important, appeal point is about security. In the debate that took place yesterday, when the Workers' Party promoted the postponement proposal, Ib Thomsen from Stortinget's pulpit said that he had received signals from all over Norway, and he supported the proposal from the Workers' Party 'because it is just unclear about the security and coverage around the country.' Ib Thomsen has an article on the press in a local way, which has been spread throughout the country this past week, where he writes: ‘I am genuinely concerned about the safety of people who travel on the sea and in the mountains and who may not receive important information about weather conditions due to the closure of the FM.’ So it is claimed from both him and the Minister of Culture that preparedness is not the argument. It's double communication the luxury. I must then challenge Ib Thomsen and the Progress Party: Does today's engulfment mean that the Progress Party admits that they have made mistakes in their claims that extinguishing the FM network weakens preparedness? I would like it confirmed. For that is why the Storting has taken the decision to get a statement from the relevant state councils from the Progress Party, and that makes the matter unnecessarily troubled in the last few days. And if Ib Thomsen can't do that, I demand that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party come up and say that the Progress Party on the Stortinget has confidence in its own state councils. Because when the Progress Party is now promoting proposals, despite the fact that the Governments of the Progress Party are ensuring that preparedness is maintained, we have a mildly demanding parliamentary situation – not primarily for us, but for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. It is her authority that is put to the test when proposals are presented that are perceived as distrust of government councils both from the Progress Party and from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e939	Thank you for the debate. It's been interesting. I record that ordinary people's concerns are not being made so horribly large number of in this room. It worries me. We are chosen by the people for the people. Before, they always said, "Important message, listen to radio." It shall continue to apply. I think everyone here really agrees on that. We have to make sure that in fact is possible in the future as well. Radio is important to people. It's both fun, it's a cultural bearer, and it's ready. The media diversity is important. It's important that we also ensure it in the future. Then I want to make a recommendation to the NRK. The representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen was busy sending out more information to the listeners about the closure of the FM network. I think you should do that, with a description of what's going on, and how to get help. The NRK has set up a call center, as far as I know, and I think that will be important in the continuation. When I say that, I also remind you that the Minister of Justice said that the preparedness consequences are uncertain, but probably small. But it's important to keep it with you, because the readiness of the radio is important to most people. When people experience that the offer is not good enough, we have to make sure it is good enough. It's an important task for us sitting on the Stortinget. The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, has stated that we are voting for all the proposals, and I have given notice of the order in which we vote. Finally, I would like to say that I register that the government has now, with four government councils, guaranteed the preparedness, and thus also assumed responsibility in the continuation. We're going to keep them responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e957	There is not every day an SV proposal seems to get a unanimous majority in Stortinget, so that's a nice situation. This is a matter that involves a lot in the whole country, and it's not incomprehensible. I also have DAB and DAB+. I just got a little bit of a transition from the old DAB so that he could become a DAB+, and of course, like many others, I've been a little annoyed by the state of the technology. I have even pushed this on my mother, who then got a regular DAB and now gets annoyed green over this radio that just doesn't come in properly. So now she also gets a little box. So there's going to be a lot of itchy, and there's going to be a lot of itchy for people in the future. It is open many advantages with the DAB system. The only thing is that it gives us a lot of channels, if one can fill it with good content and possibilities. But it also means that emergency messages can be geographically isolated. So let's say that, for example. Something happens in one region, you can give a message to those who have radio on it. Not least break message into all channels, so you don't need to right up P1 to get these messages in. There is, in itself, a great strength for Norwegian preparedness, and it will strengthen broadcasting. There is not an insignificant point in this context. The disadvantages are also a part of it. DAB+ only works under optimal conditions, so when you say that the DAB coverage is at least as good as the FM coverage, it is FM in stereo that measures it against. That's what's "benchmarking" - not in mono, not FM with a little scoring, which many people are also listening to. In such situations, when conditions are not optimal, DAB is out. But perhaps the most important objection here has been that people haven't gone man of houses to acquire this new technology we anticipated would be everyone a long time ago. So it hasn't become a wild-ha technology. That's what might make this situation extra demanding. The question is whether this is a technology for the future, and that anything big can sit here and decide what will become a technology for the future ten years ahead is, of course, quite impossible. It will be determined by the usage. It is clear that the Progress Party and the Centre Party are trying differently to score on the occurrence that might occur when this is introduced. Many don't have DAB+, many don't have DAB, many have DAB, but poor recipient, many have wrong DAB+ settings, and many can't afford to replace their radios with DAB+. But if the government sees this as an extraordinary situation for preparedness and follows this situation carefully and acknowledges that the lack of use actually weakens security and preparedness, we can achieve this transition in the most reasonable way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e972	It is a pity that we should have such a long debate, and that the Workers' Party does not listen when other parties are talking. It was mentioned by Grande that the Progress Party was unclear. The party of progress is not unclear. We've been in the same position since 2011. But at the very beginning of my speech, I said that the government statement was clear and good, and we take note of it. We have also recorded that the government is following up the decision that was made well in 2011, which was almost read out point by point. At that time, the Progress Party was reassured about preparedness. That's what I said correctly. Grande has also focused on the cost of the channels that want to send on the FM network and DAB if you maintain the FM network. This is a cost that the channels themselves have to take if they want to send. If they want to send on the FM network, it's a cost they take themselves. But I never heard Grande say anything about the costs to consumers, which the Progress Party was concerned about. I didn't hear a word about it. I mentioned a number of things that had to be replaced around the house, on cabins and in cars, and several have added both tractors and earphones. There's going to be a lot of costs here, and it wasn't the Grande or the Workers' Party at all. In conclusion, the Advance Party has faith in the digital, as the representative Sverre Myrli also has. We have faith in the Internet, but we also have faith in the digital listening. What we're against, it's shutting down the FM network. Let the radios that want to send on FM send on FM. Let the radios that want to send on DAB send there. Let the radios that will only send on the Internet send there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e983	Just briefly: I am not taking the floor to ensure that the debate does not waver. I think I might be joining it for a long time to come. But that was in view of the contribution of the representative Berg-Hansen – I think we have common interests in following very closely what is happening along our coast, and especially for the coastal fleet, which consists of one-man businesses. It is clear that what goes on is going to be sealed by several holes in the future, which I was also open about in my first post. It has to be in the future. That is why I also said that, as Minister for Fisheries, I naturally follow closely. But when I do not have constitutional responsibility for this, of course, I have to do so in the College of Government – towards my colleagues there who are responsible for it. Therefore, I am also a little surprised when several representatives here say that it is a little wrong that I as the Council of State do not show respect for the Storting. When I say that I want respect for following the formal systems and structures, and that as Minister for Fisheries, who has no responsibility for safety at sea, I cannot stand here and make any recommendations on one or the other proposal, it must certainly be respected. I also believe it must be respected that, as Vice-President of a party, I cannot be held responsible in Stortinget. I notice that someone thinks it is disrespectful, but to me it is following parliamentary practices and the rules we should be dealing with. I have been at Stortinget since 1997, and I have registered many government councils that have been challenged, both where the president has corrected, and where state councils have simply followed the formal rules and said that I cannot comment on this, because it is not under my responsibility. Of course, as the Council of State and as the first Vice-Chairman of a party, I make thorough assessments both through the national meeting, the central government meeting and the national government meeting, as well as participating in group treatment in the mainstreaming group. But I hope and believe that the Storting does not want to see the debates that are taking place in different party groups on the Stortinget. I think we can at least embark on major debates in the future. When I said that SV has a wise approach, I also said in my post that it is of course absolutely mandatory that the government follow this closely, and that the responsible State Council, the Minister for Culture, follows this closely, and that is what is in the proposal for SV. Something else would have been irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e996	Yes, it has now been a bit of a debate. One might wonder what the consequences of this debate are. The party of progress has been happy with the readiness, it has recently been said, but it is going to be so that the big group does something different than the party of government. But the Progress Party got its mark again, then. And the fact that there's a division in government is not necessarily a disadvantage for that party. In fact, SV has been quite indignant about the Central Party in this debate. What we've experienced is actually a crossfire from almost every party, and it's pretty interesting, because in this case it's like there's a message of concern from people around the country that makes the Center Party take up the case – not because we think it was wrong in 2011 to go for FM closure in 2017, from next year, that's what it's up to, but because the terms of that decision are not met. That's the whole point: the conditions for the FM connection are not met. Yes, it is quite right that there is a nice and good debate in the hall, but I fear that the Storting will not take enough of the feedback that has come from among others. The fishing team, ICT Norway and people around the country. At best, this debate has led to an even stronger government than they would otherwise have done, following the fact that DAB technology is going to be good enough, that is, that it's going fast enough to spread and that quality is going to be good. We in the Center Party hope that something positive will come out of it. But in the worst case, there is also a problem. I want to point out something that the Minister of Justice said – either it was in the post, or it was in the distribution to begin with – that preparedness consequences are uncertain, but ‘probably small’, it was said. "Possibly small" is actually not good enough. It's an insecurity that lies in the way of saying it, which we in the Center Party think must be taken seriously, but as we believe the Storting today has not taken seriously. Then Fylkesnes from SV says something that the Center Party and the Advance Party might score points that there might be trouble after New Year's when the FM connection starts. There is no reason why the Centre Party proposes to suspend the shutdown. It's to avoid the consequences, not to score points for any consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1011	The representative of Arild Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1017	I have not registered that the Progress Party has confirmed that they acknowledge that their claims, among other things. the setting underlying this case, if the compromised response is incorrect. I find it regrettable that the Progress Party in this way still leaves it in the air that they believe that preparedness is being weakened and that they do not rely on the assurances of their own governments. It is also regrettable that there is still a full division between the Progress Party and the Right in this matter. We honestly thought that there would be peace after weeks of budgetary chaos and division between the Right and the Advance Party. But now we see that it just keeps going and going. Preparedness is fundamental in a society, and that's not how you rule a country. Finally, just one explanation of vote. The Labour Party – with the assurances we have received – votes in favour of proposal No. 1, from SV, against proposal No. 2 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Three, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1024	Then it's made clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1029	In my time as the Council of State, it was absolutely and totally forbidden by the Prime Minister to speak in the constitutional sphere of other Councils, and therefore I have respect for not wanting to do so in this Chamber. At the same time, I feel that something new has happened, because we have already heard – especially, or perhaps just – the Progress Party-state councils that until those degrees have expressed themselves in the fields of other states councils. I especially remember Minister of Agriculture Listhaug, who was very keen on immigration. Now she's got the responsibility for it, so it's just as good. But that the responsible state council in a case where there are proposals where security issues have been asked, does not mean what he thinks about that proposal for the Stortinget, that is new, and there is something quite different. So it's that aftertime is often the easiest thing to do. I see that in the convocation of state councils, we need one: we should, of course, have the Minister of Finance here. For the Progress Party's proposal has an economic side, and we do not get a response from the Minister of Finance, what this has to say in crowns and ears, also linked to the State budget. Many have repeated that no recovery proposals have been submitted on those costs. That is to say, it has not been proposed to increase the licence to the NRC, which is a natural consequence of the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted. I see the Minister for Fisheries shaking his head, and I suppose that is what I am as the Vice-President of the Progress Party. But it's once like this that the Storting knows only the Council of State, so no matter how much he is the Vice-Chairman of the Advance Party, it helps very little in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1036	To the representative Klinge: SV is not indignant, we're just not impressed. It was jubilant in 2011, while today there is not so much understanding of the problems that are there when one has actually decided for a technological shift, where the state pushes a technology. It's a bit of a situation and it opens up it will create problems. At the same time, I have full understanding of the perspective that Klinge has. I'm also worried that this hasn't become the technology that people really acquire. And that in itself means that when we switch to this new technology, we actually want to have a weak emergency situation, because there are fewer who have access to that technology. We know that, and I think everyone in this room understands that, and then emphasize a different kind of argument. But we're there. There has been a lot of fun with SV in the lawn in the past, and we have come to the situation now that the Progress Party has permanently set up a small tent camp in the lawn outside the Stortinget. This is a completely different situation from the one in which he was SV, and this is not the first time that the Storing Group is going its own way in relation to the Advance Party in government. But we are in a situation where we will get a weighty emergency when the FM signal is closed in January in Northern Ireland, and I think we all have to take it very seriously. And then it's extremely important that we have a government and a magnificence that is as close as possible, and that can as soon and as quickly as possible help to close the holes and the problems that arise, that one recognizes this as an extraordinary emergency situation, as it actually is. That's probably what's positive about this round, that it's going to lower a lot of weight over both the magnificence and the government, that this is a problem around the country, and especially in the areas that I represent: North Norway. The coverage rate is very weak in the regions of the country where there are fewer people, and the population density is at least in Northern Norway. It is obvious that the emergency situation will be extra precarious, so I hope that the government will keep a special eye on these areas. Where I think the Minister for Fisheries has a special responsibility because he is responsible for an industry that really depends on good preparedness, and that keeps in those parts of the country where there are fewer people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1049	Just a few comments in conclusion: firstly, I get a little calm when I hear that the very people, most of them who have talked about complaints on the cover, say it's around the country. Yes, the network will be completed around the country – until those areas are closed down on FM. And you're fully aware that where the tunnels are not developed, there's another hole to close, and I hope this is reported, so that someone gets hold of those holes. The second is that it's asked if someone shouldn't measure this in other ways. Yes, the Storting has asked for a comparison between FM, as measured, and DAB, measured in the same way – otherwise it will be like comparing pears and bananas, or whatever kind of fruit it might be. So one has to measure the same when the Storting has ordered comparison at the same time. Something has been said that the information is important in the future. The actors agree and agree, and during the debate I have also received confirmation that they see the responsibility they have to provide good and necessary information in the transition that is to take place. So a little comment on that with the number of radios, because there were awfully many places there were radios for a while here. I am also one who has FM radios everywhere, which are not in use, because today I hear radio in three ways: it's in the car, it's mostly on the mobile phone, or it's on the PC. The world is changing. My FM radios are unused, and I'm going to be able to get what I need from DAB radios. I've got two of them. I would like to thank you for the debate. In fact, the articles have to some extent concerned the content of the matter, and that is reassuring. We've now established that one can go further. That predictability is important when we now close this matter in Stortingen today and the vote will be as announced. This means that the builders are confident that this will go further, that the content deliverers can relate to it, and not least that the listeners now know that they have to make the technology change that has been announced. Now there's peace and security around it, and they can relate to the dates in the plan. So by that I say thank you for the debate, and I look forward to this being a successful introduction of a new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1062	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1076	I appreciate the speed with which it was possible to give the Stortinget an explanation of the use of coercion in mental health protection. In the following, I want to explain how we follow up this area, and what new steps we are taking to strengthen the follow-up. The evidence of forced use found in the media is serious. According to VG, there were 4 000 cases of belt laying in 2015, divided into 1200 persons. The paper finds that in about 650 of the cases, forced use is controversial or illegal — this after journalists had presented the material to researchers and lawyers with competence in forced labour. Belts have been used against anxiety, to prevent leakage or at the patient’s own request, and often for long periods of time after the need has ceased. The number of complaints registered was around 60. Of these, 15 decisions were converted by the control commissions. Furthermore, VG has discovered that forced use is increasing on evenings, nights and holidays when permanent workers are not at work. Problem-solving has been found in all hospitals. Most seriously, this is for every patient who gets their freedom and integrity violated, and also risks harm. Forces shall only be an emergency response when everything else has been tested and there are no other alternatives to escape from a critical situation. But I'm also sure that the picture that's being drawn here is problematic for all the skilled mental health workers, who are in charge of their patients, who are proud of their job, and who sometimes experience very demanding and frightening situations. They have reason to be proud of the job they are doing, while I hope that all the good forces will also help to solve the challenges we face with the use of coercion. Let it be clear: Forced as a result of lack of qualified personnel at different times throughout the day, through the week and through the year, is contrary to the law. Forces with reference to house rules or as disciplinary and sanctioning measures are illegal. Forced as preventive measures in the event of unrest, detachment, loud and blasphemous behaviour, plaguing actions and other things that may fall within those terms are also not permitted. Health regions have too little follow-up with regard to the results for patients. In my time as Minister of Health, I have placed great emphasis on monitoring the development of quality and patient safety in hospitals, but there is a need for even closer follow-up on the use of coercion in mental health protection. There is also a need for closer follow-up of the control commissions on the basis of how they carry out their mandates on a daily basis. As I have said in other contexts, without strong political leadership in prioritising mental health and drug abuse, these areas will be less well placed in the internal priorities of hospitals. To make clear demands for management and patient-oriented results, I consider that a central instrument in this area is precisely to create the necessary changes. It is the responsibility of health businesses to provide for compulsory use within the framework of legislation and legislation. The management of hospitals, district psychiatric centres and departments must implement both immediate and long-term measures to correct the use of coercive measures that are incompatible with good professional practice and with the law. As part of my responsibility as Minister of Health and Care in 2016, I have taken more steps to follow up the legislation. In June, we promoted proposals for legislative changes that will increase legal certainty and participation for patients in mental health protection, and we have appointed a legislative committee to go through the enforcement rules throughout the health and care sector. I have also taken action to improve data reporting from healthcare companies, as part of strengthening legal certainty for patients and reducing coercive use. I have also had close follow-up to the requirement to establish drug-free treatment. In addition, after the new information from the VG on the scope of coercion, I have already notified further measures to change practices at those places where it is necessary. Last Monday I took up forced use in the psychiatry in the meeting with the directors and the directors of regional health companies. I underlined the leadership responsibility and informed that the health regions of the 2017 mission document will be required to conduct management-based dialogue meetings with patients and user organisations on their experience of forced labour in all units where forced labour is carried out. Yesterday I met with the Health Directorate to discuss how to strengthen the work of the Control Commissions. I also announced this in my post at the Annual Conference of the Control Commissions on 24 November this year. I pointed out the Commission's central role in ensuring the legal certainty of patients and turned down the wrong use of coercion. I was clear that I need the Commission's help to implement the necessary changes. Furthermore, I informed that the Health Directorate has made important clarifications in the case-handling circular to the Commission. As I have been faced with, demands and measures to reduce and correct the use of coercion have found the way down to the departments and posts where the coercion takes place. Managers at different levels of health enterprises have taken too little responsibility for their practices. Thus, judgements and decisions on coercion have been left to the individual and individual employees. It is the responsibility of health undertakings to ensure that in each unit where forced labour is carried out, proper manning, necessary competence and a working culture complying with legal requirements and criteria of good professional practice in patient treatment. In other words, for as much voluntary treatment as possible. Consequently, regional and local management is responsible for implementing the necessary measures to keep operations within the framework of law and discipline. The theme is so serious that it requires a high priority in the follow-up and rapid correction of deviations from management. In principle, health regions need to assess what is appropriate to address the challenges they face. However, managers of all health businesses will need to review staffing, skills and culture, as these are factors that have a significant impact on forced use in their own activities. This work should start by providing a full overview of the use of coercive measures. On the basis of this overview, it is appropriate to identify and, where appropriate, where there are deviations. Deviations should be analysed and causality considered. After identification of the reasons, a plan should be established for the individual health business for the follow-up of the deviations, including concrete measures. When I'm so clear on management responsibility, it's because management is a key key to being able to realize changes in an organisation. It concerns everything from organising knowledge development and research to proper manning with the right skills and developing learning and self-reflecting labour cultures. The involvement of management will be particularly important in those parts of the business that have less transparent operations and measurable practices already. Good management will be essential in strengthening skills, creating changes in working practices and promoting a restrictive approach to the use of coercion. Management as a change tool should be close to day-to-day clinical practice and support and motivate employees in demanding situations. Management should ensure that the various parts of the organisation working in the field of mental health are linked in order to make the best use of the overall competence of the activities. It is equally important that management keeps up-to-date at local level on good results obtained elsewhere — both in the same health region and in other parts of the country — and ensures that relevant experience and new knowledge are used for learning and change in their own professional environment and their own treatment culture. We have highly competent and dedicated staff in the field of mental health protection. These are employees who want patients to do the very best and who provide maximum support, help and help to solve difficult situations. Most patients get good help in getting through crises and difficult periods, which does not receive the same attention. Many people are grateful to mental health for being able to get through some of the darkest periods of their lives. However, we also know that there are variations in the provision of services — variations that cannot be justified purely professionally. As a result, it may not be so strange that there are different ways of working in this part of healthcare, including in terms of coercion and complicated suffering. If staff at some point operate at a lower threshold for coercive use than is necessary to deal with demanding patient situations, there will be serious consequences. As part of the management anchoring of the coercive area in the future, health-care establishments may need to consider the professional prerequisites available to their staff in order to minimise the use of coercive measures and to properly carry out any coercive measures. An important leadership task in this way is to facilitate the emergence of good trade unions and a changing working culture. The entry point at the psychiatric emergency department of Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital has succeeded in reducing the general use of coercive agents. The project started in 2013 and is anchored in the management and staff group. Development of the post includes environmental therapeutic interventions, interview forms developed by the department, guidance on anti-aggression, conflict management procedures, etc. The project has focused on alternative solutions to mechanical coercive agents for the management of aggressive and self-injurious behaviour. During the project period, this type of forced use has been reduced by 85 pst. The staff state that it is exciting and at the same time more professionally demanding to work in this way. When assessing alternatives to forced use, high management requirements must be imposed to ensure and take responsibility for the safety of employees in different situations. It is also highlighted as important to ‘close the door behind’, i.e. working deliberately to continue and further develop the new methodology and not fall back on past practices. Good and clear legislation is an important tool for treatment professionals in their daily work on patients with mental health challenges. In June, we promoted proposals for legislative changes that will increase legal certainty and participation for patients in mental health protection. Patients are given a clearer right to comment before a decision on the use of coercion is taken. Particular attention shall be paid to the patient’s opinions on past experience of coercive use. Use of specified coercive measures, e.g. belt laying, isolation, shielding and coercive medication shall always be evaluated in retrospect and shall be carried out in conjunction with the patient. The patient shall be offered at least one interview on how he or she experienced forced use. A central proposal in the proposal is that patients with consent are entitled to discontinue treatment or refuse to accept treatment. There are proposed exemptions in case of serious suicide hazards or when there is a serious risk to the life or health of others. We appointed a legislative committee before the summer to review the enforcement rules throughout the health and care sector. The Committee shall propose the necessary legislative changes to meet the needs of current and future health and care services. The new legislation shall support the government's objective of creating the healthcare and care services of patients and users. The aim is to reduce the use of coercion and improve legal certainty and participation for patients. It is part of the mandate of the sample to assess the need for changes to the rules of the control commissions in order to improve control of the use of coercive measures. The committee shall deliver its investigation in September 2018. In the meantime, I have now asked the Health Directorate and the Control Commissions to review how the Control Commissions are working to control the use of coercion and to ensure the legal certainty of patients. On that occasion, as mentioned earlier, I called the Health Directorate to a meeting on the issue yesterday, December 6. Several proposals for strengthening the work of the Commission were presented and discussed. The Health Directorate will take immediate action to strengthen the quality of the work of the Control Commissions to ensure the legal certainty and participation of patients. An action I would like to mention in particular is to strengthen the user perspective of welfare controls. This improvement will take place in cooperation with users, services and a selection of control Commission members. Other actions that were discussed will be brought back once they have been further assessed. In addition, the Health Directorate has made important clarifications in what is known as the Commission’s procedure circular. The content of the monitoring commissions’ welfare control is clarified in a circular – this to ensure effective control of restrictive measures such as: use of belts. It is clarified that, in addition to reviewing the coercive protocols, the control commissions shall review the grounds for their decisions. When reviewing the decisions, the Commission shall verify that all the conditions have been assessed and that the decision appears to be sufficiently justified. If the decisions are inadequate, the control Commission shall deal with the institution. In the event of serious circumstances, the Control Commission shall notify the State. VG's revelations are important. They have shown that there is a high level of coercive use, but also that there has been a significant under-reporting of coercive use. An ongoing problem in the follow-up to the Forced Area has been the lack of correct and complete decision-making data from healthcare companies to Norwegian patient registers. I have asked the hospitals for full and correct reporting of the use of coercive substances and that systems be established to ensure the reliable recording of data. An overall survey of coercive drug use for 2015 is expected in February/March 2017. As of 2017, we will monitor developments in the use of both coercive agents – i.e. brakes/belt beds, restraints, short-term attachment behind locked doors and sedatives – and forced insertions through quality indicators and tertiary publication of data at www.healthsorge.no. This will be a major improvement from the past, when the data were published only once a year — and almost one year after the end of the year of registration. According to the data of the VG, forced practices are being carried out in these ways in Norway. Some politicians and lawyers have called for a review of the use of mental health services. I understand that, but I do not see anyone questioning the actual conditions that have arisen in the VG's coverage, which are confirmed by and coincided with the Civil Ombudsman's investigations and other work done in this area. I believe that the need for investigation cannot be about determining whether this has happened, but there may be other grounds for investigation, and I would like to listen to them. I will, of course, assess the need if the Storting wishes. I remind you that we have now appointed a legislative committee that is reviewing all the enforcement legislation, and that of course also has to deal with new information on the use of force as it appears in the media. I would also point out that the County of Oslo and Akershus have established an oversight case on the basis of one of the cases at Oslo University Hospital, which was mentioned by the VG. I also feel that the boards of health companies take this matter seriously. The Health More and Romesdal Board deals with the follow-up to the coverage of their forced use at the Governing Board meeting today, with a specific reporting and assessment of concrete actions. I have been aware that there is too much and wrong use of coercion in mental health. As I have explained, we have now started work on improving leadership, culture, reporting and law. Then, of course, in the follow-up I will continue to assess the impact of the measures and assess the need for new measures. At the same time as this follow-up, there is also reason to draw attention to those who work in the field of mental health protection and who each day ensure that most patients receive a high-quality mental health service. Mental - health protection had stopped without dedicated staff. That's why we're also wise to be aware of what signals we send to those who make sure to take care of us or some of our closest ones, when we get sick and need help. That doesn't mean there's going to be a high threshold to alert or take up critical relationships. On the contrary, we all depend on that, and we also have an obligation to do that. It's mostly about taking responsibility for what we're talking about, how we're talking about it, and in what context. We need to avoid generalizations, labels, and the hanging of groups. Just as we work to eliminate the stigma associated with having a mental health challenge, we don't have to fall into the opposite ditch and talk down about those who help us when we have mental health challenges. We need to act in such a way that we get all the good cancers and people in mental health protection into a joint effort to correct the mistakes and unnecessary use of forced labour in the specialist health service. I have met and talked to many patients who have experienced the wrong use of coercion in healthcare. I also experience these patients as some of the most important change agents we have to help just change the service. A lot of people, and more of them, also talk nice about the service, and I'm grateful for the help you've received, and it's important that we take these perspectives with us in the further follow-up and discussion. At the same time, we also need to take seriously the concerns of some employees in this part of the healthcare system for their own safety, but this is fully possible. As experience has shown us from Lovisenberg, from Nord-Trøndelag, from Østfold, from Nordfjord and many other parts of the service where one has managed to reduce the use of coercion, there is a clear fact that it does not compromise the safety of the employees, and that the employees can go to work every day in order to ensure that their relationships are well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1147	In accordance with the second paragraph of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that a brief comment round be opened with an intervention of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1154	I would like to thank the Minister of Health, who, at the invitation of several of us in Stortinget, came and gave a good and thorough presentation right now. Forcibly, being subjected to coercive treatment is often seen as very invading. The working party therefore wishes to facilitate the restriction of the use of coercion to what is absolutely necessary in order to protect the patient and the environment in an acute situation. In order to live up to such ambition, it is quite obvious that there is much more to be done than what has been done now. What is striking in this statement is that the reference to VG, a member of the press, goes over and over again in the Minister of Health's statement. This should be, with all due respect, numbers and information that had come through the more ordinary reporting systems we have in healthcare, but that is not enough. I therefore believe it is important to do several things at the same time, first of all what can be done in the short term. The Minister of Health said that we need better reporting tools and electronic reporting tools for the various protocols that are being enforced. We are familiar with the fact that we are now working to establish this, among other things. through a pilot project in the Health West, and I believe that there should be full pressure to have this carried out for all hospitals in the next year. Secondly, there are experiences from hospitals that have managed best to reduce unnecessary use of coercion. The Health Minister mentioned several of them here: Lovisenberg, Health Nord-Trøndelag and Nordfjord. It points out that management is very, very important, but those departments that have good routines also describe that staffing with competent and robust staff is a key factor in success. It takes very good competence and long experience to often deal with difficult — and I would say sometimes threatening — situations. We know that there are emergency departments and security departments that have most patients where the use of coercion is assessed. That is why we believe that it must be possible to target the efforts more closely in order to ensure sufficient experienced personnel in such departments. This may mean accepting a slightly higher manning factor in such departments. This also costs money. At the same time, as I said – I fully agree with the Minister for Health – this is about management, attitudes and systems for quality to be able to handle the different situations. Thirdly, you have to learn from those who make it. I mentioned instead that the hospitals that have suffered a significant reduction in the use of coercion also report that they have carried out professionally demanding but relatively simple improvement measures that have led to a reduction in the use of coercion. Unfortunately, the situation is often that we see that short-term projects of this type show that they have a certain effect at first, and when the project period is over, we go back to the same pattern as before. That is why I believe that there must be a more systematic improvement work where, for example: Putting into practice the experience gained from so-called peer-based guidance, where hospitals that have succeeded in improving their own professional practices can continue this way of working to others who will evaluate their practice — systematic, continuous work of that kind. Fourthly, pending any other arrangements that are better than the current control commissions, I agree with the Minister of Health that the work of these commissions must be followed much more closely. That is why I am pleased to hear that more measures are now being taken to do just that. Finally, I would like to say that I strongly doubt that this way of punishing individual patients has a future ahead of me. The Minister of Health suggests, inter alia: in an interview in the VG today that the current Eastern City Committee, which was set up just before the summer, will also evaluate the use of these control commissions. That's good. However, I believe that this information that the Stortinget has now received from the press is so serious that the Minister of Health should look at the possibility of this sample work continuously proposing improvements through sub-positions or other types of proposals, and in the process also make concrete proposals on how to replace the control commissions with a better system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1173	The articles and stories about the people in the VG series of articles about coercion have affected us all. The meetings with people who have experienced coercion, and who have felt offended, touch me very much. As the Council of State stated in its statement, it is unacceptable and unlawful to use coercive measures to compensate for the lack of qualified staff or as disciplinary measures or to prevent unrest and harassment in the department. It's illegal. In the Right, we are pleased that the Council of State came to the Storting so quickly to explain how he follows up this area, and what steps are being taken to strengthen the follow-up. VG revealed that 650 out of 4000 seatbelts in mental health protection are controversial or illegal. It's too high a number. Nevertheless, when only 60 complaints are registered, it can also cause us concern because too many people are subjected to illegal or unreasonable coercion without registration, because you simply do not have the power to complain. It's not hard to imagine how offensive it is when you're sick and vulnerable. We are pleased that the Minister of Health has already taken more steps to follow up the legislation, including: through the legislative proposal aimed at increasing legal certainty and participation of patients in mental health protection, and the Minister of Health has also taken the initiative of appointing a legislative body through the coercive rules throughout the health and care sector. It's especially important. It is also particularly important to improve reporting, as the Minister for Health was in his speech, and to get a much faster overview of the quality indicators, which will be public in health Norway.com. The right is, as the Minister of Health, very concerned that health businesses are meeting the requirement for drug-free services. The control commissions shall make an important effort to ensure the legal certainty of patients in mental health protection. The Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party, and the Cooperation Parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, believe in the need to strengthen the work of the control commissions in order to better protect patients' rights, in the light of what has come up against illegal and contentious coercion. We therefore already agree in the 2017 budget to strengthen the entry by 500 million. to strengthen the competence, recruitment, training and follow-up of the control commissions. We would like to thank the Minister of Health for a thorough presentation on a particularly important matter. To the VG and to the Prime Minister, Eline Skår a couple of weeks ago told about his experiences with belt laying. She felt it was to be trampled on as shameful and degrading. She thought the tracks belonged to the 1800s, but met another reality. I share the Minister of Health's commendation of the competent staff who provide them with mentally demanding diseases, high-quality health care. Eline's history is nevertheless important – for health professionals and all of us. While speaking of the practitioners as caring and with good will, she gives valuable, critical evidence of forced use that she experiences as demanding, which could have been reduced, which could be illegal. To everyone out there, to all patients and health professionals, I think we'll end up saying what Eline said.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1192	I want to start by thanking VG who has raised this important issue – not necessarily because there have been some figures, but because we have a public debate. And there's been a big public debate out there. What we see is that there is a great lack of knowledge. I experience in social media that someone thinks coercion is about us avoiding someone killing someone else. I think we need to talk about what force really is, how it feels, and what it does to people -- that it's not about avoiding someone becoming a killer. That means that when we've talked many times about that stigma around mental health has become much better, I also think it shows that we have a way to go. In connection with the bill we're currently working on in the committee, we had a hearing. There came a young girl from the Change Factory who told about how she had been put into bars, and how it seemed to be a child and meet people whom she thought would be her help, what it did to her, and how it followed her all the time. I think that debate we need to have to make it visible that this is about giving people medicine they don't want, tie them up or lock them in, and that in very many cases it's unnecessary – or as one of the other girls in the Change Factory said: I know that the coercion has saved my life, but that's the way they did it. It is also an important debate. There are actually some people who are being forced, who in retrospect see that it was right, but that was the way it was done. I hope that bill that we're working on now will do better. The size has been known about the coercive practice for very many years. We've been discussing this for years. There is a cross-political agreement that forced use should be reduced. A report from some years back showed that there were huge differences around the country, and the differences are still there. What's perhaps the worst about this is that when we had a report that showed us the big differences, it wasn't used to learn from it -- because we see that someone gets it, and they get it to very, very good, for the patient. The government has taken a lot of action. The Health Minister was in all the grips we've taken, and all that's going on right now, so I don't need to repeat it. But I would like to remind you that, in this room some time ago, we also debated the issue of «Glasshenta», which Kjersti Toppe travelled, where one looked at the coercion that had been used against the girl, who was approved when it was implemented, but who was later asked questions about how to approve, and that the law was broken. It is therefore important that the control commissions are now strengthened, raised, given more competence. We need a review of how they work. I am therefore pleased with the agreement we have between the four cooperation parties to add 5 million. kr, so that they can get started very quickly to increase their skills and see that they actually work differently around the country, make different decisions. It's very much about attitudes and management, there's no doubt about it. Many employees do a very important and good job. I have a very need that this should not be about bad employees, but that it is also about attitudes and management, about being able to think new and taking a little more into account seeing the individual and letting them participate in the treatment to be carried out. I think that's absolutely necessary for us to do this in a better way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1211	In the NRK a few weeks ago, there was a journalist who spent the night and was close to patients in a department where they had eating-repellent challenges. This journalist sat down on the bed of one of the patients, and the patient reacted instantly and said, "Not too close, it reminds me of when I was being coerced. It was a threat. Forced use and improper use of coercion can be experienced as a new attack and can be traced for the rest of your life. Therefore, it is incredibly important to focus on coercion and coercion. The fact that the information comes via the media is important, although the Christian People's Party would wish that this information had come through the ordinary systems, and that the confidence in reporting deviations had been so great that we could have intervened with these challenges at an earlier time. Nevertheless, I think it is good that the Council of State is so clear and says that it is unacceptable to use coercion. If there are evening shifts, night shifts, weekend shifts and holiday break-up that are the reason one has a smaller crew, there is no legal use of coercion, and the decisions are wrong. Health businesses have a responsibility to follow up this patient group and look at their own practices, and not least listen to those who are on the evening watch, night watch and on vacations and ask: What makes this use increase at those times of the day and at those times of the year? Is the holiday settlement a challenge given that we actually give them the highest level of competence vacation at the same time? Changing practices is needed, mostly for the benefit of patients. I think it is good that the mission documents of health companies are made clear, that changes are being made to the law, that a legislative selection has been set up, and that we are looking at the reporting systems. I think we need to get a complete overview of where it fails in the reporting system, because this should normally have occurred elsewhere. With good management, we're going to be able to change attitudes and practices in the departments where we have the sickest of the sick. It also means that the managers take the employees and the employees' organisations and ask how one together can take action that actually reaches the goal that is politically crazy, but which I think is also professionally crazy: to reduce the use of force. The Christian People's Party also wants us to look at the mandate and system of the control commissions, and that we look at the basis on which things have been assessed by the county council. When we look back at the «glazed girl» and you once said that it was good: what has changed in the meantime so you said in retrospect it was wrong? We have to dry up to look in the cards, not to take someone, but to actually do this better, because I think we would have to change, and we never have to settle down that we have everything on g with ourselves. We always have to have a goal of reaching for and getting better. It does not mean that everything is wrong, but that means that this matter must be focused.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1224	Extensive, serious and illegal forced use has been demonstrated in Norwegian psychiatry. Hence, the Council of State came to the fore in Stortinget, and it was necessary. It is said that VG has revealed this coercive practice. I want to say that they haven't revealed it, we should know this, but they've mapped and published it. They have entered the coercive protocols of 14 institutions and produced a statistic. This could have been done by the department - they did not. The directorate could have done this -- they didn't. VG has found that in 2015 there were 640 belt layings that were illegal or problematic, 170 patients who had been belting after they had fallen asleep, and 220 protocols that were missing information on forced use, when it might have ended. It appears that the Control Commission does not protect patients' legal certainty, and they do not enter and control in a defensive way when coercion occurs, they do not ask questions about coercive use. This is very serious. In addition, a seasonal variation in coercive use is detected. But the worst thing is that even the Health Directorate didn't know about this. There are geographical differences in the use of coercion, and there is someone who makes it better than others. I mean this case here is the most serious thing that has been up in this majority period in the field of health and care. When I belong to the Council of State Höie's distribution, no one disagrees with what is being said. It is clear that one can point out to health professionals, one can point to a cooperation with the Health Directorate, one can point to the legal selection that has been set down, one can say that there is a need for a full overview of coercive use, and that health professionals have to create a plan, they have to analyse their deviations, and of course this is a responsibility for leadership. But it's like the top leader of Norwegian psychiatry is here in this room. State Council Höie is in this case owed to the media to talk down about those who work in psychiatry. That's why it was good, what was underlined here, that there's a lot of dedicated people working in Norwegian psychiatry, but the system is not good enough, it's immature, and it's affecting patients. We could also talk about the hospital economy and the golden rule. I fully agree that this is about competence, manpower and leadership. I have noticed that the Stortinget received a letter from the Council of State, Höie, in June of this year, concerning a proposal from the Left. The Council of State writes: ‘While we regularly obtain reliable statistics on waiting times, lead times, deadlines and other activity data from the specialist health service, we do not know how many people are being treated against their will at all times and who are thus getting their integrity and autonomy violated in different ways in mental health protection.’ This was written in June. In the same letter it says: ‘The Ministry has otherwise gone through the problem with regional health businesses and has challenged them to make their own enforcement figures visible. All enterprises give priority to work and have taken steps to strengthen reporting.’;» And on the other hand, ‘Before I can decide what should be done with the system of recording and reporting forced data itself, I ask for an understanding that, in consultation with the Directorate of Health, the Department must assess the extent to which the measures now taken in regional health establishments can contribute to the resolution of identified obstacles and the time horizon.’ Finally, a meeting will be called on 6 June with the professional, user and family communities. My criticism is that it has been done too little, it is too weak, and it is the same as has been said now as in June. We have submitted a proposal for scrutiny, and I want the Council of State to listen to our objections, and that at least we can get a review so that it's the public that comes with the information, and that we don't have to wait for new disclosures in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1252	Yes, it is in connection with, among other things, The Left's proposal to set up a wide range of professional selections we have here today. Of course, there's a lot of VG's headlines lately about psychiatry, which is the current situation related to our standing here today. I thank the Council of State for coming to Stortinget with this statement, and for a very thorough answer. I must state that here I have full confidence in the Council of State, which I believe is leading an important development of Norwegian psychiatry. A big thank-you also to the VG. Unfortunately, VG has put yellow patches and deficiencies in Norwegian psychiatry in the system for us politicians. As the representative Toppe and others have been involved, there are others who would have done this job. We have department and directorate, we have health and county officials, we have control commissions. There are many actors who could give us the full overview. But the Council of State made a number of proposals that he has both promoted for Stortinget and has on the stairs. In addition, the majority of the parties have put five million on the table. kr to strengthen the work of the Control Commissions for 2017. There is important first aid against coercion in psychiatry, but there is only one of several absolutely necessary measures. Several have been involved in leadership. This is also about political leadership, and we must do so in this Chamber. That's why we have to keep up the discussion about secrecy or transparency in the Norwegian health sector, and that's exactly where we see the importance of finding the keys, opening the doors and getting the debate out into the open room, and that not a few people will be sitting and assigning responsibility and will not be blamed. The control commissions originated in the mid 1800s. Why there's 45 when we have 20 hospitals, or 18 counties, that's something we can also discuss, and how the appointment happens. Not least, we need to discuss how user involvement and training in the Norwegian health sector are taking place. It's too bad, whether it's psychiatry or it's somatic. We need to school as we make greater demands on user participation, and they also need to understand the big picture and not just their own situation. The government and the majority parties have reintroduced the golden rule, free treatment choices, have first of all, we've got the Change Factory into the state budget, we've got the Psychiatric HealthProfessors and the Children's Protection Professionals as important votes. Children who are able to talk about coerciveness to us politicians have been incredibly important in this debate. We need to continue to take structural measures to strengthen psychiatry. I miss that we dare to discuss and give one of the hospital companies a clear mandate: Be good at psychiatry. It's the somatic that dominates, it's a knife on the brain that gets to win. We have to give someone an opportunity to show off best practice. We need to focus more systematically on research and development in psychiatry. We're too little outcast towards the rest of the world, we're too late to implement, and as we've heard more people have been in today, there's too much geographic variation here. It's also random practice. We can't have it like that. We then need to discuss a mandate for the control commissions or for the Health Authority. How long are you going to have to hump? How long are you going to have to do with your own little random practice, and maybe a little random entrepreneurship? If we agree at some point that this is the way it should be, then a few mandates have to say that now we are doing it. It may include a mandate to fine non-following undertakings or businesses. I also miss a greater commitment to digital support and telemedicine. It will help standardise treatment for treatment providers, but it will also give users greater opportunity to participate in their own treatment. Open beds allow them to enter themselves – for many of them know when there is danger on the move, and when there is a need for serious treatment. So we have a way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1269	This is a very serious matter. The Storting and the government must follow closely. It is important to adjust the policy forward, of course, but it is almost as important to have proper scrutiny in place, so that those who have been victims are fully heard. It's something as simple as we have to learn from our failures in order to prevent them from happening in the future. It is true, as the Minister of Health says, that it is very important to change this in the future. But it is also important that those who have been subjected to unlawful and unlawful coercion are listened to. Healing old sins and assaults not only occurs by avoiding new offenses, one must make up for the old ones as well, as best it is possible. This is linked to one of the proposals put forward by SV in the spring, and is about the Commission's work, in which we proposed: ‘The budget asks the Government, in the context of the overall review of the compulsory legislation, to evaluate and review the Commission’s work to ensure that it is highly professionally strong, has sufficient resources and transparency to do a full job.’ The Greens voted in favour of the proposal. It'll surprise me a lot if this wouldn't get more today. But we also need to know if the professional governance of the field is in line with the existing law. The authorities must be informed of the treatment that people receive, according to the law. At the same time, I think this is part of a much larger image. It is a political responsibility that there is not enough lowthreshold or emergency services, that important treatment facilities for seriously ill people are laid down, and that the government's promise of better psychiatry conditions is not followed up. The government is responsible for presenting proposals that will secure us from future abuses, but the Stortinget is responsible, and then it should be considered whether the Stortinget should put together an investigation commission to investigate what has already happened – an investigation that both takes into account the specific cases and also looks at whether enough money is being seen, whether there is enough staff with the right skills. It is too easy to focus the search light on those added that sometimes have no choice because it will otherwise be dangerous. The whole system needs to be inspected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1286	Thank you for a good discussion after my presentation. I'm going to take with me the views and the recordings that have been made. I feel that there is broad political support for the actions undertaken and for those notified in the future after this discussion. As regards the future role or responsibility of the control commissions, it is already part of the mandate of the legislative committee set up. That was the reason why SV’s proposal was not adopted, simply because it is a task that has already been assigned to a public body. I'm going to have a meeting with the head of the selection next week and go through the mandate to ensure that this is a mission that we have a common perception that is being well followed up. I am also very pleased to hear that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed to prioritise more resources to follow up the control commissions for next year. It is necessary to ensure both adequate competence, recruitment and follow-up of the Control Commission. There is money that is going to be well spent. Regarding the issue of reporting, which has been discussed by others, I fully agree that there is reason to praise and thank VG for having set aside resources to do this. There are also many health services – at all levels from the Health Directorate to the Health Regions – who say what many have said in the pulpit here, that this should have been done by others. But when Kjersti Toppe tries to present it as if my response in June was kind of just a feedback, and that after that nothing has happened, and then we come up with new measures now, it is wrong. There are just a number of the measures that I presented in my article, which were initiated as a follow-up to the work we carried out in June. I would like to remind you that we have made demands on the hospitals. This was before the last round of the VG on full and accurate reporting on the use of coercive agents. After that, some systems are in place to ensure the reliable recording of data. We will therefore get a comprehensive overview of the coercive use in 2015 in February/March 2017. That is a concrete result of what I mentioned in the letter. At the same time, from 2017 onwards, we will follow developments in the use of coercive agents — brakes, belt beds, restraints, shorter rear locked doors and sedatives — and forced insertions through quality indicators and tertiary data publishing. There will be a significant improvement in the ability both for us and for society around to follow up on the developments in the service. I agree that this is one of the most serious issues that we have had in the health field in Stortinget this period. There I think the representative Toppe is quite right, simply because this is about the fundamental human rights. We have given the police and health services unique opportunities to intervene on the part of individuals. There are no other parts of society that have that possibility. Around that, we have built something that we believe has been about a good system to ensure legal certainty for the individual. That faith now cracks. It's incredibly important that we work systematically to fix this and improve it. This is about the legal certainty and human rights of each of us. We all have a mental health. Many of us will need this kind of health care through life. Then we also need to be sure that health care is provided in such a way that our basic human dignity and legal certainty are safeguarded in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1301	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Health on the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1321	Drug shortage can be serious, but it can also be an option. Through this debate, I want to discuss both the challenges and the opportunities. At best, increased Norwegian pharmaceutical production can both contribute to strengthening Norwegian health care and preparedness and contribute to a green shift. In a world that is on its way from 7 billion to 9 billion inhabitants in the next decades, there will be a great need for both drugs and – not least – knowledge of prevention, health and preparedness. We can build a Norwegian knowledge industry based on health, which can reach far beyond the borders of Norway. Norway’s contribution to the development of the Ebola vaccine showed what we have in stock here in Norway. Looking at our neighbouring countries, we see a strong pharmaceutical industry, especially in Denmark, and a health sector and knowledge industry that is quite similar to ours. We are also well on the way to developing a single Nordic welfare technology market, with common standards and industrial actors. In total, this could be a Nordic health cluster with a great potential as a global player. But it requires that we cooperate, both more and smarter in the Nordic region. But first of all, I want to talk about the lack of medicines in Norway. Lack of medicines is a serious and growing problem both in Norway and in the rest of Europe. The main clear reason for the lack of medicinal products is problems with the production and delivery of products from the pharmaceutical industry. The suppliers of medicinal products are required to report expected deficiencies to the Agency, which lists deficiencies in medicinal products. There is a known lack of medicinal products not reported to the Agency. Most deficiencies in the Agency’s list of drug shortages in 2014 and 2015, respectively, are medicinal products that have not been lacking in pharmacy during the periods they have been on the Agency’s list of deficiencies, according to the Pharmacy Association. That is very reassuring. The major concern is that the reported real pharmacies deficiencies increased sharply from 2014 to 2015. I hope it's a development that can't go on. A few of these deficiencies have been particularly important drugs — they are serious. In addition, there has been a trend that those who have actually been lacking in pharmacies represent a long-term deficiency. As a politician and representative, I need an overall status, and to be sure that we can deal with various shortcomings, but also crises and major events. Drug shortages receive some attention in the media. It is then important to be able to assess seriousness: whether these are coincidences or structural challenges. We have recently learned that when a pharmaceutical plant in China explodes, it affects deliveries to Norway. We also hear about production conditions around the world with major environmental challenges in which we should also reflect on ethics. In addition, the oil fund is an investor in many pharmaceutical industries. It's also part of a slightly larger debate. In order to provide policy-makers and citizens with a more comprehensive reporting on the pharmaceutical status, I would like an annual report or a statement to the Stortinget. I hope this is something that the Council of State will consider in order to give us big-scale politicians a better macro understanding of what drug shortage is today. It is difficult to sit and evaluate single calls in the media on increasing drug shortages. I also refer to the APO's report from October this year on the lack of medicinal products, where they propose the introduction of a new categorisation of the lack of medicinal products, primarily in order to provide better information on the real extent of deficiencies, where a specific comment can be made on the severity and duration of the medicinal product, as well as on possible risk reduction measures. I hope these two measures are something the Council of State will consider. So to the possibilities. A possible green shift and an increase in the production of medicinal products in Norway, what can it have? It doesn't necessarily have to do something about deficiency situations, but it can. In addition, it can provide enhanced preparedness or simply provide us with an industry with more knowledge-based jobs. This may have potential, especially in the districts. The last grant to the industrial family here in Norway is Curida in Elverum, which produces under contract from other pharmaceutical manufacturers. We also have pharmaceutical industry in Halden, Lindesnes and Kragerø as well as Oslo, Asker, Kjeller and Ås. I have registered that the Council of State has transferred the Public Health Institute's production equipment to the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry. That is good, and it is an important contribution to strengthening the Norwegian pharmaceutical producer environment. It is an industry that has access to the instrument as other industries, but it is also an industry that needs demanding interiors, sterile production facilities, packaging and logistics systems, and therefore we should look a little at the instrument for such a type of production in Norway. I also need to bring the Defense and the role it has on the field. Acquisitions and tender criteria are an important part of the pharmaceutical situation. There are also other actors, the municipalities through other authorities, including the defence, to play a role here. Through the Storting investigation section, I have received insight into the acquisitions of the defence in terms of vaccines and medicines. They don't necessarily have to be in large stocks in Defense, but in a crisis situation, of course, it's important that we ensure the defence needs. Another way to think about preparedness is that the defence can be responsible for helping us to have a production apparatus in Norway that can produce if needed or in case of crisis. So I hope that the Council of State will take this along and look at the conditions that the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry has for manufacturing equipment today. We also have an important infrastructure to ensure. That it's at least in everyone's interest. So the Nordic dimension of this. I was delighted to attend the Nordic Council's session in Copenhagen earlier this autumn, precisely the session in which the Council adopted a more committed joint Nordic procurement cooperation for medicinal products. I have not previously participated in the Nordic Council, so I have to say that I was a little surprised at how offensive the Nordic Council was on this. Very familiar we have a rather different practice in Norway. We have different prioritisation practices. We also have different purchasing practices. So I think – or fear – that we have a way to go in order to achieve Nordic cooperation here. But we should definitely cooperate more. In Denmark, it is not a separate register for lack of medicinal products. In the Nordic context, we do not have a common definition for lack of medicines. We have a lot of opportunities to start that cooperation in different ways. I believe that through research and development and innovation together with some of the strong industrial environments we have, but also the great research among others. We in Norway can jointly be an important player in the global context. I will also draw attention to funds and the way in which they cooperate. We sometimes have discussions about funds in Norway. I've said several times that I don't want funds to top finance cancer medicines or other medicines, but I want us to see if funds are a way of working together in the Nordic region, because there might be an appropriate way to organise it. It can make different contributions, and we will be able to determine the rate and development of the fund ourselves. Through the oil fund, we have experienced in environmental investments that the fund model can also carry out development work locally. Back to the ebola case. It showed that Norway has a high level of competence to play on, including internationally. We see challenges with antibiotic resistance and also a lack of development of new antibiotics and vaccines. Norway has something to do with this. Here we have a advantage that we can develop further. I hope that we can use the platform we're now on to make a bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1351	The number of patients who don't get the drugs they're going to have is increasing all over the world. The government has put in place a number of measures to protect Norwegian patients from an increasing global drug shortage trend. Increased monitoring and reporting, closer Nordic cooperation and self-cooperation between doctors, pharmaceutical authorities, pharmacies, wholesalers and industry are important measures to ensure adequate assistance for Norwegian patients. Norway is also actively participating in the EU's efforts to find new measures to strengthen drug preparedness. The government invited the Storting to debate the matter through the pharmaceutical notification last year, and I am pleased to be able to inform the Storting again about developments in the field of drug preparedness. It is right that the policy of both the notification of medicinal products and the health care strategy21 facilitates the development of new medicinal products and a pharmaceutical industry in Norway. At present, Norway has some good research environments, and we have a certain industrial production of medicines. However, the development of medicinal products and industry in Norway will only be able to address to a small extent a situation of lack of medicinal products. The pharmaceutical market is in practice global. Today there are more than 1,500 different active substances on the Norwegian market. Although Norway would succeed in further developing its own production, we will never be able to cover a large proportion of the active substances, and thus self-production will only modestly address a deficiency. Nor will production in Norway help if there is a global shortage of raw materials. The population must be guaranteed good and sound access to important medicinal products and in recent years a number of measures have been put in place by the government to strengthen the preparation of medicinal products. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has recently carried out the monitoring of the social security and preparedness work in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The conclusion of the supervisory report is that drug preparedness is mainly good in Norway, although there have been an increasing number of cases of non-compliance in recent years. DSB points to a number of measures based on risk and vulnerability analysis undertaken in recent years to address deficiencies in Norway. The most common causes of shortages are production problems, withdrawal of medicinal products from the market, or an increase in the demand for medicinal products that cannot be delivered enough. These challenges are well described in the notification of medicinal products. Deficiencies can be exacerbated by Norwegian wholesalers exporting medicinal products. Norway may not, under the EEA Agreement, prohibit such exports in general, but the Swedish Medicines Agency supervises that this should not be at the expense of the preparation of medicinal products in Norway. The vast majority of cases of deficiency are addressed by the use of packages intended for other countries or by the use of alternative medicinal products with similar therapeutic effect. For healthcare, it is resource-intensive to have to change treatment in a deficiency situation, but for patients this is usually not a medical problem. The supervisory report describes how the Ministry has asked the Health Directorate for advice to strengthen drug preparedness and how the government has followed up the professional advice based on risk and vulnerability analysis. The Health Directorate proposed to give health businesses responsibility for the preparedness of their own medicines – a decentralised model. It was proposed to ensure the preparedness of medicinal products prescribed in the primary healthcare system via the pharmaceutical wholesaler’s warehouse — the wholesale model. The technical advice was followed up by a change in the regulations for wholesale operations of medicinal products from 1 January this year. The change implies that wholesalers distributing medicinal products to pharmacies are obliged to ensure the availability of an additional stock of medicinal products for primary health use, corresponding to the placing on the market of two months. Preliminary studies by the State Medicines Agency have shown that this requirement has given rise to an increase in the stocks of the medicinal products concerned in Norway. The responsibility for medicinal products for use in the specialist healthcare system was transferred to regional health establishments from 2015. At the same time, health regions took over the emergency room of the Directorate of Health and followed up with several measures to strengthen preparedness. A dedicated drug shortage centre has been established at Oslo University Hospital. The Centre shall monitor the lack of medicinal products in the specialist healthcare system and shall support regional and local health businesses in the preparation of medicinal products. The Centre for Deficit Medicinal Products cooperates closely with the National Agency for Medicinal Products. Every health business shall have its own medicinal product coordinator who shall also act as a lack of contact. Security of supply shall be included as a criterion in procurement contracts. Hospital pharmacists may make ready-to-use medicinal products if they have raw materials available, such as: production of morphine for injection. However, in the emergency context, the provision of services by the specialist health service will be of limited importance. In most cases, this will not be a sufficient strategy to meet the challenges facing healthcare in terms of lack of medicinal products, as the active substances still need to be provided by a few global producers. During the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers next year, the possibility of closer cooperation on the manufacture of ready-to-use medicinal products in hospital pharmacy will be addressed. The preparation of medicinal products shall be based on basic principles of preparedness for responsibilities, proximity, equality and cooperation. The principles imply that responsibility for preparedness and management of exceptional events shall be as much as possible equal to the way in which the services are organised in a normal situation. There are many actors with tasks and interests in the field of pharmacovigilance. The Directorate-General for Health therefore established a Pharmacovigilance Committee in 2014 to contribute to enhanced cooperation and dialogue between the different actors. We have good systems to monitor and monitor supplies of medicines in Norway. Here, the State Medicines Agency has an important role to play in monitoring and supervising. The Agency also initiates actions in the event of a lack of medicinal products, including: information to doctors, patients and pharmacists with advice on alternative treatment, authorisation for the sale of foreign packages without an application for special exemption and reimbursement for foreign packages. Early warning of drug shortages is very important, so there is time to find good solutions. The Ministry is now considering whether action should be taken to intensify the follow-up to the alerting obligation. Drug shortage is a global problem and international cooperation is therefore necessary. The European Medicines Agency, the European Medicines Agency, has taken the initiative to reduce the problem. The initiative includes measures for both prevention and better management of emerging defaults. Under Slovakia’s presidency, an informal EU Health Minister meeting was recently held, where drug shortages in Europe were an important topic. There was a broad consensus that drug shortages affect more countries and more frequently than before. At the same time, countries have different challenges and approaches to the subject. In mid-November, the Ministry and the Medical Products Agency attended an EU conference on drug shortages, where measures to strengthen drug preparedness were discussed. The issues discussed in the EU include: the need for a common European definition of a deficiency situation, a more effective and common warning system and whether production should be required in Europe. Norway participates actively, including: through meetings of the European Medicines Agency, the European Medicines Agency, the European Medicines Agency, and the Network of European Medicines Directors. This network has recently set up a dedicated working group on drug shortage issues. An important measure to reduce supply failures related to production and quality challenges is for manufacturers to develop more risk-based security of supply continuity plans. The medicinal product authorities shall contribute to this work by developing guidance on how such plans are to be drawn up and monitored. In order to improve the management of emerging situations, better information flow and coordination between the European Medicines Agency shall be established, and healthcare professionals and patient groups shall be more closely involved in the design and assessment of supply failure measures. The Nordic Council of Ministers has also raised the possibility of improved Nordic cooperation in security of supply. In 2014, Bo Könberg presented a report to the Nordic Council of Ministers, recommending twelve areas of action for future health cooperation. One of these areas of activity was developed Nordic cooperation for higher cost-efficiency and improved safety. In the autumn of 2015, Ministers agreed to set up a working group to look at the possibilities for cooperation in the field of medicinal products, in particular related to the challenges posed by new expensive medicinal products, but preparedness issues are also on the agenda. The plan is that the working group should propose a structure for possible cooperation for ministers in spring 2017. At the same time, an informal Nordic Pharmaceutical Forum has been established under the auspices of purchasing organisations and agencies. The Forum has established several working groups, where security of supply is the main theme of one of the working groups. This working group shall have, inter alia: address barriers to trade between countries and the possibilities for resolving deficiencies in the Nordic market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1391	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. As the Council of State is involved, this is a lot about the market, trade and regulation, and I trust that this is essentially a market that works. For Norway, as a small country, it is important that such a large global market operates. As the Council of State says, we have little production in Norway and are totally dependent on other actors. The small concern is related to the few that are sometimes missing, which is serious, that some of them are missing over some time, that we get the trading mechanisms to work, and that we know that there are some who are facing us when we are in a situation of shortage. Since we're a small country, it's not always that we're necessarily the winner. We're lucky to have a lot of money, but this also means having good deals to make sure that you're given priority. When you look at the tender criteria, the stockpiles vary slightly. Something's set to two months, which is four months and something is six months. The defence may, for its part, operate with slightly different criteria for this. Both for industry and for preparedness, this is something we can look at, and that can be win-win. Is there anything we can do better? But I also think it is worth looking at the production conditions and conditions in Norway. The Council of State referred to a recently appointed Pharmacovigilance Board. That's good. But we also have a Health Care Council, which looks at civil-military cooperation and what role it can play. The European situation is important, for most medicines are approved by the EU. So that cooperation is important. But for Nordic cooperation: With Norway holding the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2017, I hope that the Council of State will use it to create some opportunities from the platform we have in Norway, to contribute in different ways, whether it is in research, production or with the competence environment we are building up in Norway in relation to the global aspect, and to contribute with other actors. I think that is a promising work that Norway is doing. As far as funds are concerned: we see the Gates Foundation and others who want to take responsibility, but I also think it is important that we contribute politically and from public Norway, and do not think that because they take responsibility, we should not contribute. Take into account such considerations from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1404	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Kjeseth, for raising this discussion, which also gave me a good opportunity to explain all the different initiatives that have been taken and the changes that have been made in this area – and as a follow-up to the treatment of the pharmaceutical notification, as the Stortinget was also concerned with this topic. It's a global problem; it's therefore also a lot of ice-cream of international work in this area, which I also drew out in my answer. As the representative stands, Norway has the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers next year and will address the need for a more formalised Nordic “deficiency group” where all Nordic pharmaceutical authorities will be represented. There will be one of several initiatives that we consider necessary in this area. With regard to the annual presentation to the Stortinget on this topic, there is now a proposal that I will take with me and consider further. Among other things, we have an annual reporting on patient safety and quality, where this could perhaps be a natural issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1415	Thank you to Ketil Kjenseth, who has addressed an important topic about the lack of medicines as an increasing global problem. This committee has had a medical report for treatment where this was well discussed, and I also believe that this committee has had a very good discussion about raising the health industry, so here are two themes that follow on. I believe that the Council of State gave a good account of the follow-up to the work that has been done, and I am reasonably sure that he will continue to follow it up. But there are challenges that lie there all the time, not least what he pointed out that shortcomings should be notified earlier, and that we have vulnerable systems. We have a health company system and a primary health system — how do these two systems work, and could we see whether there should be closer interaction between the two systems? And in the case of hospital pharmacists – I think a sample has been set down to look at their role as well – to what extent will they, with the development of new personalised medicines, be given an increased role in the administration of medicines? So here are several factors that are constantly developing. I am reasonably confident that Norway has built up a good system that is forward-looking in terms of risk assessments around procurement. But there's always a risk, and we have to take that into account. So to the Nordic Council. It's kind of nice, because it's in the light of the discussions we've had in the Committee on Health — that's as members of what was then called the Business Committee, to say it in Norwegian — that we've raised this issue, which was actually parked. We thought there should be opportunities for interaction in this area. But then I was also challenged that it has been difficult for our own healthcare companies to interact with purchases, and when you're going to do it across national borders, it might not be easier. Although both Sweden and Denmark have strong industrial locomotives in this area, they are not very interested in interacting with us. So we have a job to do, but at the same time we have a relationship with rare diseases. Maybe we can look at what structures are built up there, through it to see if that's possible. But there's one theme going on again, and that's antibiotic resistance. It is a high-level topic in Norway — it is high in Scandinavia and the Nordic countries — so it might have been possible to identify an area where we could look at models to develop new antibiotics. Even during the last hearing, the medical industry, the LMI, made a contribution to piloting new business models linked to that area. So it might be an idea of how we could re-uplift it, in a particular area, and see if we got direct results related to it. So to that with annual reporting. Then I have noted two key chords. One is the quality report, which was also addressed to the Council of State, but also when we get the State budget, and there we have this year got a certain description of the situation. So there are two areas where we could describe the challenges that are in this area. Then I think I've been told at least the points that the Workers' Party was concerned about in this round. But I want to end by saying that this is an area that engages us strongly, and we are happy that there are several parties that are concerned about this field. It is very constructive cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1436	A great thank you to the interpellant, who addresses this important topic. I even had an interview about this in April 2014, but I greatly appreciate the opportunity to discuss this matter again. This is something that creates problems for patients and health professionals in Norway every day, and therefore it is an important topic to discuss in the United Kingdom as well. The risk profile of drug preparedness has changed. The dominant factor in drug preparedness up to the 1990s was the risk of war or other acute crises. The importance of defence for civil and military drug preparedness in Norway has been minimised. The threat picture has changed. At the same time, medicinal products have become more advanced. An increasing number of Nordics survive and live on the condition of regular and good medical treatment, i.e. the steady supply of medicines. Internationalisation is increasing in all fields, but especially in the pharmaceutical sector, we see this. This makes it possible to ensure not only national preparedness but also international cooperation. I have previously criticised the pharmaceutical industry for not taking enough responsibility for the supply. It's a criticism I want to repeat here. Industry seems more concerned with marketing new medicinal products than with ensuring that those on the market are actually able to obtain them. «Just in time» logistics is available throughout the supply chain for medicinal products. It works well nationally, but is not good enough in terms of the global supply chain. The lack of medicinal products may be a consequence of manufacturers thinking too much about profit and too little about risk. One can ask questions about whether manufacturers have gone too far after profit maximisation and too little about supply risks. One might have to think more about production and security of supply than about market access and marketing. There has been a consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry for several years, where there are now fewer and fewer manufacturing sites. We see that in particular in the generic market. Much pharmaceutical production has been moved out of Norway, and its competence in this area has thus been weakened. We still have more solid companies, and they need good framework conditions. A policy that stimulates Norwegian ownership and good conditions for clinical and other research will contribute positively, and here the government has offensive policies. An example of this is that we see new companies. Curida has been mentioned. They may put existing installations into service and develop them. Last week, as known, they received vaccine production equipment from the Public Health Institute. It's a decision the government has to pay tribute to. Personally, I would have preferred the Public Health Institute to continue with the vaccine lab, but that it should stop is a decision that has been made many years ago. Ensuring Norwegian production competence is essential. A generation ago, any pharmacy was able and required to produce simple medicines. Now it is the rarest pharmacy that is able to do this. The pharmacy association has taken responsibility through its company Service production, and together with the hospital pharmacists, they are important for our preparedness. It is essential that these small but important production environments are maintained. We can make ourselves less vulnerable by adapting to the situation. Today, national labelling requirements apply to individual packages. We should allow several international or Scandinavian packages, which would give greater volume to the goods sold in Norway. Norwegian pharmaceutical policy continues to be influenced by the lowest price target — so low prices that in some cases Norway may not be given priority in a situation of inadequacy. The pharmaceutical industry claims that parallel exports of medicinal products are a problem for Norwegian supply. I would say that the quotaing of goods to the Norwegian market with which the industry operates is a major problem. The wholesalers do not rarely go empty because they do not get enough goods from producers to meet domestic needs. If you go through the products with a supply failure last year – and I have – there are only a few, if any, who had parallel exports. The parallel export argument is hidden in this context. Had a healthy supply situation globally, this would in any case not be a problem. The goods had moved where there was a need. So I want to ask that we stop talking about parallel exports as a problem, and rather point to what is the challenge: the industry does not deliver enough goods, they are most concerned about getting new goods marketed. There is a need for clearer lines and clear responsibilities in the case of Norwegian pharmaceutical preparedness. We need health policy coordination of the future safe supply of medicines to hospitals and patients. I think the Minister of Health had a good account, which shows that we are on a good track here. We have a healthy competition in the Norwegian pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical markets. It is a political responsibility to ensure that preparedness and security of delivery are ensured over time. We must then bring together competences and forces and, as in other issues of social security, have clear responsibilities. Food safety and food production are an important topic of constant debate, but we must take on the fact that more and more Nordics, in addition to food, are also dependent on stable drug supplies to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1464	Thanks to the interpellant, who has taken up a very important theme. It is a fact that safe access to medicinal products is an important responsibility for health policy, and it has to do with preparedness. We have not long since been dealing with a medical notification. In that report, there were very clear objectives for pharmaceutical policy, precisely that we should have a stable and safe supply of medicines in Norway, both in normal situations and when we consider that we should also be prepared for medicinal products if the country comes out for accidents, disasters, etc. We have basically good security of supply, but I am concerned about all the feedback that we are experiencing an increasing lack of delivery of important medicinal products. Then I think this is in peacetime, and what happens if something really happens in Norway? It's a small thing to do before it can put a whole country out. If we have a lack of anaesthetics, and we don't get antibiotics, it's not as much as we need to do before drug shortages can become an important weapon. What is my frustration is that when we have just dealt with a medical notification, I feel that this with drug preparedness was not well enough discussed in that message. It included the Centre's comments, where we said that we are concerned about the national and global lack of medicinal products, and we pointed to the experience in the last ten years with a lack of important medicinal products – anaesthetics, generic drugs, antibiotics. The nature of the access to medicinal products in a crisis situation is a question to which the notification of medicinal products does not give a good answer. We also wrote that in the setting. We believed that the Storting should be informed about the challenges and strategies for national drug preparedness that are currently in the healthcare system. It also appeared in the hearings in connection with the notification of medicinal products, when the Norwegian Pharmaceutical Association proposed that we should have an independent distribution of the lack of medicinal products – that it was necessary – and that they were particularly concerned with concrete measures that had to be taken to ensure that medicinal products and raw materials were available, including on the Norwegian market, and that a concrete plan had to be drawn up for maintaining production skills and production sites in Norway. The centre party made a proposal during the treatment of the notification of medicinal products which was as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an independent investigation into the lack of medicinal products and to return to Stortinget with a concrete action plan to ensure preparedness for drug shortages in Norway.’ This very good proposal only got the votes of the Central Party, but I'm glad that the Left is now very concerned with this issue – for all things, it's said a lot from the Chair. I miss that Stortinget has to deal with this properly, that somehow we get a thing we can read and go through, maybe have a hearing, and get certain that we can do what we can to ensure the preparedness of the medicine in Norway. I'm not sure about that, so at least I hope that the Council of State will take it from this interpellation debate and will be able to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1482	I will pick up the thread a little from the representative of Toppe's recent articles. Politicians come and go – I’ve been a member of the Health and Care Committee for over three years, Topping me known for two periods, almost seven years. We feel a little bit of the same need given that the flow of information may not be sufficiently systematized here. That's not certain that's now it's time to have the matter Top demand, but it may also be now. But the annual statement I could at least imagine putting more into the system. State councils have mentioned the quality and patient safety reporting, which I think is the best of two alternatives mentioned in the hall. Of course, the state budget is also an opportunity, but as we all know, there is a lot of information, and there are a lot of negotiations. It might take the attention away a little bit. So to the representative Sveinung Stensland, who has clear opinions on this – I am pleased – who is also a professional, and that the risk picture has changed. There is not necessarily war now, but we see that after the fall of the Berlin Wall, some of the public health work also fell in some countries of the former Soviet Union. It can sometimes be a pressure against our Norwegian public health. The tuberculosis situation in our neighborhood -- to put it that way -- is something we're going to follow up on, and we can solve it in several ways. There is not an acute pressure on Norway at this time, but we can use our competences – working together in this way – to transfer competences. We can also contribute in terms of vaccines and medicines. It is a work that I hope the Council of State will include in the Nordic Council of Ministers. The situation in the health sector in – to call it that – the northern regions is something we should have a look at. It can sometimes be as great a threat as other threats we're talking about from the east. In the case of Nordic cooperation, the representative Ruth Grung was involved in some of it. Denmark has regions that control hospitals, i.e. countries in Norway, Sweden uses the loans. In Norway, we have companies. I think we've become a little too introverted with the business model -- we're not finding the whole pattern of cooperation in the Nordics and beyond in Europe with that model. Especially for us politicians, some organs are gone. It is a bit difficult to come from Stortinget and would meet a representative of the region from Denmark, it is in a way not always they feel that it is entirely appropriate. It is time to develop that interaction pattern as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1493	Thank you for a good debate, which was also a good opportunity to report back to Stortinget some of the initiatives that have now been taken, and the work in progress in this area, and as a follow-up to the Stortinge treatment of the notification of medicinal products. I believe that this is a subject that is well described in the Communication, which was also reinforced by the Committee's work and which is followed up. As I explained in my main article, there are a number of highly skilled groups in this area who are now working on both measures and follow-up to get an overview in this area. I am also sure that in that work new initiatives will be put in place to improve this area. We have now created a national structure and responsibilities in this area, which is to deal with these kinds of issues, as I also explained in my article. So, as I said, I will also consider whether there is an opportunity to report back more regularly to the Storting about this work, but I would like to stress that there is a lot that is happening in this area without the Storting necessarily having to deal with it, because the Storing has simply set up some principles, established – I was going to say – a structure, which is going to deal with this situation, and then we also have to trust that the different parts of our administration are actually handling that task in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1505	Then there's case no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1521	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1530	The issue of permanent flood protection in the Opovas Strait is a follow-up to a unanimous request decision last year from which the government was asked to file a case of permanent flood protection in the Opovas Strait during 2016, where all the measures involved, including concession treatment in the lower part of the watercourse, are assessed. The opovas stretch was protected against hydropower expansion in Verneplan I in 1973. Concession treatment cannot therefore be opened without the consent of the Stortinge. The background to the decision is the repeated flood damage suffered by this watercourse, in particular the large flood in October 2014 caused serious damage both in the area around the Sandwine Water and along the river running through the Odda Centre. Five houses and a leisure home were taken by the flood. 39 houses were evacuated, and bridges were closed. ‘It is almost impossible to see that there has ever been a neighbouring company. All the houses are gone." It told Renate Aase to the NRK Hordaland the day after the grandmother's house had been taken by the flood. The inhabitants are still afraid of floods. One of them writes to the rapporteur that he gets hurt in his stomach when a lot of rainfall is reported, and says, "I think there are a lot of people who experienced the day of horror and who live along the watercourse, who have it the same way. In the area around Sandwine Water, flood damage continues to occur. Tom Berge writes to me in letter 17 November: «In the period after 1979, the situation of farmers in the valley is that they have flood damage almost annually. Either you get a late spring flood that washes out the manure that is scattered. That due to the warning of precipitation, it is necessary to strike before the crop is fighting, or that the switch has to be postponed due to floods resulting in a reduction in quantity and feed value.» We have to take the fear of the inhabitants feel, seriously, also the financial losses and other inconveniences they are being inflicted as a result of floods. In the NVE projections, a 40 pst is estimated. increase in flood water flow due to a wilder and wetter climate. Odda Municipality and Sunnhordland Kraftlag have done a preliminary study of a possible combined development of hydropower and flood tunnels in the lower part of the Opovas stretch. This could reduce flood peaks and the project will be fully funded through power generation. Odda municipality and NVE have also given Multiconsult the task of conducting an opportunity study for other flood measures in the watercourse. According to the NVE, combined hydropower plants and flood tunnels will have a minor impact on the protection value of the watercourse. It is a majority of the Labour Party, the Right, the members of the Progress Party and the Centre Party that support the decision to open up the concession treatment of plans for the combined development of the flood tunnel and hydropower plant. I expect the other parties to present their own proposals and comments. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that this is an individual matter. Should similar cases be submitted to the Stortinget later, these must be assessed separately, and the different considerations must be weighed against each other in each case. The defense plans are firm. Opo is a regionally important salmon trout. Durable flood protection will have to be taken into account, and interventions that reduce protection values must be sought avoided. The feasibility study developed must be part of the concession treatment process in such a way that the measures concerned, other than the flood tunnel, are also considered. Let me finally reject the claim that the Committee has dealt with this matter urgently. I would like to remind you that what the Storting will decide is whether or not it should be opened for concessional treatment. A combined deployment of power plants and flood tunnels could finance permanent flood protection. In order to achieve this solution, the project must be completed by the end of 2021 and be able to obtain green certificates. So it's a certain aspect of time that should be considered. Concession treatment takes and must take time. First, proposals for a programme for impact assessment shall be consulted, and public meetings shall be organised. The NVE shall establish programmes and the impact assessment shall be carried out. Once the impact assessment has been completed and the application has been sent, the case shall be referred to the hearing for a period of three months. A public meeting shall be held and an inspection shall be carried out. Then the NVE shall give notice to the OED, which, in its own opinion, promotes the matter for the government, and final decision is taken by the King of the Council of State. This is how we take care of all social concerns in such a case, but this process takes time – almost a year and a half. In order to reach the certificate deadline, Sunnhordland Kraftlag must start work in the summer of 2018 if they are to be granted a concession. In view of this, I believe that the Committee's consideration of the matter has been effective, factual, good and without undue delay, and I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1562	I would also like to thank the rapporteur on the matter for a good and timely procedure. It is an important matter for us to deal with, and it is important to have progress in these matters. A community has asked the community for help because it does not feel safe to work in the community when large amounts of rainfall are reported. The opova stretch was protected, as we know, early in the 1970s, and the community has, of course, dealt with it. However, in October 2014 a significant flood occurred in the watercourse, causing major damage centrally in Odda and around the Sandvin water. The first community did after being exposed to the flood was to take care of its inhabitants and start working to secure society. In addition to 2015, when they got control and an overview of the damage, it was time to look ahead. How can we ensure that we are as secure as possible for the future? We were contacted at Stortinget in connection with the submission of the State budget for 2016, and a unanimous increase in the number of requests has asked the government to present a case of permanent flood protection in the Opovas Treaty during 2016, in which all the measures involved, including the concession treatment in the lower part of the watercourse, are assessed. That's what we're invited to do. Measures are currently in place along the river section through the Odda agglomeration, and the measures in place are dimensioned in order to ensure a 200-year flood, with a climate impact of 40 pst. However, the flood protection measures will not limit the flood level upstream of the Sandvin water. The opening of concession treatment in sheltered watercourses is demanding and must be done only in exceptional cases. It is no simple matter for us to touch the rivers that a majority has decided to protect. But in exceptional cases, we believe that this is necessary, and that is the case in this case. Furthermore, if you were to get a concession, you would still maintain a large part of the protection. The NVE shows in its review that the protective values underlying the protection appear to be relatively small, as current expansion distances between the Sandwine Water and the fjord are strongly influenced by human activity, and the maximum protection values are further up the watercourse. The NVE and Odda municipality feasibility study for flood mitigation measures in the Opova stretch shall be completed during these days. The feasibility study will give us some answers on what you can do to ensure the watercourse as best you can, and of course you have to be a central part of a concessional treatment. Action in Opo may have consequences for salmon and sea trout. From our point of view, it is important that we take this into account when securing Opo against flooding in the future, and that we have a good eye to look after and keep fish and fish management in the best possible way. The Odda community has asked us to evaluate all possible measures in the pursuit of flood protection. We are willing to give them – also to open up for concessional treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1583	On behalf of the members of the Progress Party of the Committee, I would also like to thank the case-speaker so much for resolving this matter in a safe and good way, including within a window of time that is good for reaching a concessional process, which in turn allows one to realise this before the deadline for the Green Certificate expires, for which the case-speaker did well. In addition to this being an important matter for our members of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, it is also an important matter for the Hordaland bench, a matter with which we have worked politically well. We have also worked well with Odda Municipality and spokesperson Roald Aga Haug, who has done a lot of work to raise this matter to the Stortinget today. I would also like to thank the Council of State, which has taken the call decision and submitted the matter to the Storting as quickly as he could, and in a positive way the whole way. Those of us who are from Hordaland know very well how it feels to be close to the area like the Opovas stretch and the eleven there. We think of all the TV images from 2014 and know what it's like to live in an environment that's characterized by a great flammability. The fact that one is concerned about that situation in Odda, and that one hopes that one can also solve it through a win-win situation, as SKL's project is, is completely open. Because that's what it is: when Sunnhordland Kraftlag has the idea that one can create a tunnel that can both produce power and create jobs, but at the same time act as a flood protection, get a win-win situation for local communities, for workplaces and for society as a very exciting wholeness, and as we from the Progress Party are very pleased that the Storting says yes that the government can run an ordinary concessional process on, and make its decisions for the next time. It will be very important to get that clarification in place, so that the NVE can start their assessments and present the matter to the government, which will decide the concession application later. I hope that the Sunnhordland Force Team is really serious with its initiative. When they've gotten a big deal to ask for something today, and got a huge majority today to say that it's okay with concession treatment, it's important for us that one then feels serious and sends an application, and that one minute serious when a person wants to start this project. I think there are many in Hordaland who have great expectations that this will lead to goals, and that this will be something of which. Then it's up to the concession treatment to find the good balance that's to come, between different considerations. We know that this is a watercourse that has a high degree of wildfire, and that one has to find a reasonable balance to keep that in mind. At the same time, it is also important to find a good balance that allows a person to get enough water to produce power and create profitable jobs. That balance sheet is important for the concessional treatment to be clarified, so that both a hedge of profitability for a major investment is ensured, while at the same time preserving the natural values of the watercourse in a good and balanced manner. I think this is a good thing and a good attitude, and I would like to thank the committee and the case officer once again for getting her there so quickly and before Christmas, so that we can make this important mandate decision in the Stortinget today, which means that the NVE and the government can continue to work, to the delight of the whole Odda community, which today will be pleased with the decision that the Stortinget is making.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1600	Living with the uncertainty about when the next flood comes and the consequences of it, is demanding for everyone who experiences it. The people of Odda have felt this on the body before and know what the consequences are when the eleven go over their banks and wash away the house and home. It is important to take adequate measures to reduce the flood risk and to ensure life and health and values. There's no doubt about it. This proposal proposes to open the concession treatment of a protected river. It is proposed to build a flood tunnel with associated power plants. The power plant shall finance the tunnel and make its realisation economically easier. The power plant is thus involved in securing funding. At the same time, a flood tunnel intended to take the floodheads must have a continuous flow of water in order to produce power. This means that it's no longer just floodheads it's about, but reduced water flow in eleven all year long. This will have a major impact both on protection values and on fish in the river. The Christian People's Party does not deny that there are some economic realities that we have to deal with in politics, but we cannot allow this to be a leader when it comes to a protected watercourse. The Christian People's Party believes that it is serious to deviate from the adopted protection plan, and there must be strong grounds for this to be defended. The size determined in the treatment of the energy message that deviations from the protection plan to ensure flood suppression can only be made by specified criteria and only when other flood suppression measures have proved inadequate. In parallel with the work on this matter, Multiconsult has been commissioned by the NVE to work on a report on possible flood mitigation measures. This report has been published after the matter had been decided by the Committee. The Christian People's Party believes this report should be included in the knowledge base for this matter. It is difficult to understand how it is possible to take decisions on a case at the same time as working on different alternatives. Are we going to adopt today a concessional opening in a protected watercourse when there may be other alternatives on the table that have not been adequately assessed? I'm just asking. The Christian People's Party believes that this is not the right way to do it. The feasibility study was published yesterday — one week after the matter was submitted to the committee, long after the Ministry and Government have made their assessments, and thus the day before the Stortinget takes decisions. Do we want this to remain, that we will open up to concession treatment without having all the facts on the table in a watercourse that has been protected since 1973? For the Christian People's Party, the conclusion is no. We suggest that the matter be returned to the government, pending an analysis based on the report that came yesterday. We do not consider it expedient to deal with such a matter in an urgent manner, even if economic conditions justify this. The hydropower has been and is important for Norway, but it has also left few rivers of a certain size that are not subject to concession treatment. This is why some rivers have received permanent protection. If we're going to deviate from this now, at least we have to take time to evaluate all the possibilities. I would then like to promote the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the SV and the Greens' Greens' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1617	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1622	The centre party is part of the majority of the committee and wishes and hopes for the concessional treatment of the Opovas Treaty, and I can essentially join in the assessments and comments made by the rapporteur in this regard. I understand that there are several of the parties who think this is not a simple matter. But it is now time for one to make some difficult assessments of the challenge that people in the community face year after year in terms of floods and floods and the fact that the watercourse is in the Watercourse Protection Plan. In the difficult balance, the Centre Party has come to the conclusion that we believe it should be opened up to what we consider to be a fairly limited and reasonable extension and flood tunnel connected to the watercourse. It is clear that there must be serious reasons to deviate from a protective plan, but we believe that in this case there are those kind of serious reasons to be able to do so. Then I want to stress that it does not mean that it is free to open up for concession treatment in other watercourses. There is no precedent in the case we are dealing with today. As the Committee says, in each case where this may be the case, it is necessary to consider the different social aspects and to take a decision on each case. But for the Central Party, we have come to the conclusion that in the decisions that are demanding, as one has had to do in this matter, there are reasonable and good reasons to be in favour of this limited and sound development that is on the table today. And I can't believe someone here is saying that it's been a very urgent matter. We have asked for the matter, we have asked for the matter to be presented before the end of 2016, and I believe that we have had an entirely sound and thorough discussion in the Committee on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1631	The need for flood protection is to be taken seriously, especially with expected climate change – wilder and wetter weather and more rainfall, which has also been seen in floods in Odda. But we also have to take seriously that we have a protected watercourse, and that it is a serious decision to open up the concession treatment of a protected watercourse. On the left hand side, we haven't been reluctant to do that if it turns out that it's necessary to get the necessary flood protection. However, we are critical of the procedure used by the majority – that this is dealt with urgently in Stortinget, and the matter is even dealt with urgently in a situation where we have been waiting for a report from the NVE, which has been prepared in cooperation with the municipalities. We've now got that. It just points out the issue on which the Storting should base the decision on whether or not to grant concession treatment. For the Left, the decision is quite simple: it is about now implementing flood protection measures in the Opova region by the state in the order of 8 million. kr. It must be possible to have a protection against a 200-year flood with a covering of 40 pst. The assessment must be: is it also necessary to have a separate flood tunnel? It's hard for us to make an opinion about now. There must be professionals who make an assessment of it. One proposal we have, proposal No. 2, it just opens to assess whether there is a need for a flood tunnel or not. If it is, and most likely there will be a need for a flood tunnel, the question is, Is there a power plant needed to finance the tunnel or not? On the left hand side, we don't think it is. It is a State responsibility to implement the necessary flood protection measures. It'll be here too. Multiconsult's report shows that it has a cost, but 130 million. SEK-150 million. kr is not a deterrent sum. It is definitely possible to lift also by the state. Then there's the negative consequences of having a power plant. In a flood tunnel, there is a cost side, but there are no negative environmental consequences. A power plant, on the other hand, makes it necessary to have a permanent supply of water, which means that Opoelva through Odda will have a much smaller flow of water than it has today, with the consequences it produces. One thing is the aesthetic, but far more serious is the consequences it gives for the salmon and sea trout fishing that is there. The fauna and salmon fish are very threatened in the Opovas stripe. The Left did not agree with proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We would wait and have the opportunity to see the report. But we shall vote in the Chamber for proposal No. 1, about sending the case back to get an assessment of the need for concessional treatment, based on the report we have now received. I believe that it is a proper assessment to make, and that it is also fully in line with what a unanimous committee was behind in the energy communication, that all other proposals should have been considered before we might open a concession procedure, which also provides for the possibility of having hydropower plants. It is important to ensure the protected watercourses. They are, after all, protected against the expansion of power plants. The absolute last step we should take is to open up to development to protect against floods. The left will definitely support strengthening the work on flood protection in Odda – this is the ongoing work. We will definitely be pressing for an investigation into the need for a flood tunnel, and we will definitely also be supporting, including on the Stortinget, the state's presence and support for the possible construction of such a flood tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1644	The President assumes that the representative should also include proposals Nos. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1649	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1655	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, then addressed the proposals to which it was referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1660	In October 2014, Opo went from being a safe river to becoming a dangerous river. Those who take lightly the consequences that Norwegian oil extraction means should think carefully about when they see the impact of climate change on people in Norway. In this case, it was in Odda. I must admit that on this occasion I do not wish to thank the case rapporteur, whom I think has driven a rough road in the committee to get this matter through quickly. I believe that the way we have dealt with this matter is contrary to the seriousness of dealing with the suspension of protecting the watercourse from force-building, and with the opportunities we have for democratic participation. For example, this deserves to be done. consultation with environmental organisations, with the municipalities and with others involved – what we would normally say was the kind of democratic rounds we would have had on such a matter. I also believe that this decision is overrun by a unanimous decision in ours. Then we said clearly: ‘The Committee considers it important to maintain and use nature’s own flood-absorbing capacity. The Committee considers that concession treatment for power development of more than 1 MW in sheltered watercourses should be submitted to the Stortinget and only considered in cases where other flood control measures have been tested, life and health are at risk and the protection values will not be significantly affected.» I don't know what it was that was unclear to the Minister when they presented this matter to the Stortinget, but the fact that «other flood-reduction measures are tested» should be a clear recipe to the Council of State to try out other measures before going into a power build-up in the municipality. So in addition, you're going to have to pick up knowledge. But the knowledge came into our hands today – that is, it came into my hands today, but it came on December 5, this year, in other words, after the proposition was made, after the committee had finished its discussion. Then came the report from Multiconsult, which showed the possibility study of flood mitigation in the Opovas stretch. It showed that the flood tunnel cost $170 million. kr and has no negative impact on natural diversity and such, given that one does not put a power plant there. River hatch is a cheaper measure that can be implemented faster, having an impact on the cultural landscape, but has no significant impact on natural diversity. This was the reason why some of us said yes, but in all the world, we can't deal with this matter so quickly – there's knowledge coming right around the corner. But that knowledge, therefore, refused to wait until he filed the case for the Storting, and the Workers' Party and the Center Party agreed to say that we do not need this knowledge – we put everything in the hands of the Council of State to proceed with a concession treatment here. I mean, it's not okay. I think that people should keep what they promise, and I believe that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party do not keep what they promised in ours, in this matter. I believe that the concern for the security and security of the people of Odda should be first priority. From the point of view of the SV, we are clearly open to assess both floodgates and flood tunnels in this watercourse, and that is why, together with the Greens, we are promoting proposals to that effect. But we are going against what has always been the wish of the Council of State, to open up to grant concessions to power extraction in sheltered watercourses where it is socio-economically profitable, where there are heavy socio-economic reasons for it. That was what was in the press release in connection with the energy message when it was delivered in the spring – that was what the Council of State saw. But that's what Stortinget said no. We said no that only one finds profitability in power development, a few will be allowed to build up power in connection with flood suppression. Instead, we said we're going to try out the other things, and then we're going to come back to power development if that's also necessary. I mean, 200 million. kr is not a deterrent sum to ensure the safety and security of the Odda society. We've added 100 million. kr in our alternative state budget, where there is also money to go further with the design of both the flood tunnel and the floodgate in this watercourse. And the people who are willing to spend 40 billion. kr on fjord crossing and on crossing further out in Hordaland, should be willing to set aside 200 million. kr to make this safe in Odda.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1684	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1689	The issue of the OPA is an early test of whether the Storting will take the consequences of climate change in a responsible way. Now several Norwegian watercourses become more floodable and have to be secured. The question is, how do we pay that bill? This is the price that the world and, to the most extent, Norway have been more concerned with producing oil, producing climate change, than limiting greenhouse gas emissions. Using the need for flood protection in the Opovas Strip as a pretext for power development shows a fundamental reluctance to understand what climate policy is all about. The main effect of climate change is that nature is damaged, and it in turn damages the basis for housing and food production and other things. In Norway, many watercourses are gradually going to behave differently, and then using climate change as a pretext to destroy even more nature is the wrong solution. The size must simply get used to the fact that we have to pay for the consequences of climate change and preserve nature without assuming that we are going to make money on it. The opovas strip was permanently protected by the Stortinget in 1973 because of landscape interests and biodiversity. The watercourse was highlighted as a very good example of a nature type that Norway has an international responsibility for preserving. In addition, we have a salmon population that is becoming increasingly important, as salmon goes badly with elsewhere – to the Minister for Fisheries. In 1999, the NVE and the Directorate for Nature Management confirmed and reinforced the basis for the safeguard decision. So now the government is going to lift the protection and extend the river through an emergency treatment in the Stortinget. This proposal and the comments by the Workers' Party and the Centre, which will support it, indicate that understanding and respect for the professionally anchored nature protection are in the process of being confused in the majority of the Stortinget. As the representative Eidsvoll Holmås and other memories of, it is very short time since a unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment concluded that ‘it is important to maintain and use nature’s own flood-absorbing capacity’. Furthermore, the Committee considered that the power development concession treatment should only be considered. ‘in cases where other flood mitigation measures have been tested, life and health are at stake and the protection values will not be significantly affected’; So you've been able to do this for a short time to forget or ignore. Using new flood problems as breakwaters to extend permanently protected watercourses is an obvious breach of Storting's prerequisite for power development in sheltered watercourses. And if this natural vision creates precedent, it really burns a blue light for sheltered watercourses in Norway. Until 2014, the river was considered to be a safe river. Now it's got to be floodproof. Of course, the Community must stand up to the Odda community and secure the river against dangerous floods, but we also need to stand up to Norwegian nature, which will suffer more than enough because of climate change if the Storting does not contribute to further destruction. The development of force in the Opova stretch is not a prerequisite for flood suppression. Opening up the concession treatment of power plants does not comply with the Stortingen’s requirement that other flood mitigation measures be tested first. Therefore, we should open a flood tunnel, together with other flood prevention measures, and then a power plant is not necessary for a further flood suppression function. The feasibility study now presented shows that, for example: a floodgate in the outlet gas will have a high and positive effect and a very low price. Right now it is more important than ever that the Storting stick to the responsible understanding of the natural values underlying it, as the same batches that today will open up for concession protected the river in 1973. Power plants will be able to experience plenty of them, but we are also obliged to ensure that they can experience freedom and original Norwegian nature. Climate change is now creating challenges for nature protection, making it even more important. That's why I hope the majority will cancel their rampage, end with a lifting break, go in to postpone this concession proposal and rather go into a state-funded flood tunnel in the lower part of the watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1716	Let me start by thanking several of the representatives for doing so in line with the decision in Stortinget. I want to say that I also greatly appreciate the job that Stortinget has done with this matter. As others have noted, the Opovas suit was protected in 1973. This means that it cannot be opened for the concession treatment of hydropower plants above 1 MW unless the Storting agrees. So, as far as I remember, the Stortinget has unanimously asked the government and the Ministry of Oil and Energy to present to the Stortinget a matter of permanent flood protection in the Opovas stretch. The size also said that it would be done during 2016, where the measures in question, including concession treatment in the lower part of the watercourse, were assessed. I am glad that all the representatives have noticed that there is a significant risk of flooding damage in the lower parts of the Opovas suit. High water level in the Upstream Odda Centre Sandwine Water goes beyond both cultivated land and operational buildings and dwellings. Large water flow through the centre is a risk for housing, commercial buildings, bridges and roads. I was even in Odda in the autumn of 2014 and saw the significant damage that had occurred both in the Odda center and upstream of the watercourse. It made a strong impression. Since the autumn of 2014, the NVE has launched several flood protection measures in the watercourse. They are dimensioned to handle a 200-year flood, but there is reason to point out that these measures will not be able to limit the flood level upstream of the watercourse, for example. in the area of Sandwine Water. To this end, Sunnhordland Kraftlag, in cooperation with the municipality, has developed a pilot study of a combined expansion of hydropower plants and flood tunnels in the lower part of the Opovas stretch. Such a measure will provide good flood protection both at the centre and not least around Sandwine Water, and in addition, a power plant will be able to contribute to an annual production of between 165 GWh and 185 GWh of renewable energy, approximately. the force of 9,000 households per year. Based on the sum of these benefits of the solutions outlined, the government has submitted proposals to the Stortinget to open up the concession treatment of this specific project. This does not mean that protection in the watercourse is otherwise lifted. So you could call this urgent procedure. I would like to remind you that it is not a concession treatment we are discussing today. We're discussing that Stortinget is invited to open concessional treatment, which is not the same as giving concession. In further work, of course, consideration of both protection values and other general interests will be carefully assessed. At the same time, of course, we will also carefully assess the alternative flood protection measures available, and the report that, among other things. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås both talked about and brought with him on the pulpit, which is drafted on behalf of the NVE, will of course be an important part of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1736	I got so much an answer to what I was going to ask for, in the post to the Council of State, but he might have the opportunity to repeat it. My question is: does the Council of State consider that the need to reach the deadline for the Electricity Certificate Scheme is more important than assessing all alternatives, such as: was it found in the Multiconsult report, when one now goes in to open up to interference in sheltered watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1743	I think it is a great honour that first the entire Energy and Environment Committee and later a significant majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment have listened to a community that is concerned about the danger that eleven represent to that community. I have also noticed that the developer, Sunnhordland Kraftlag, is concerned that this should only be realised within a profitable framework, demands that this concession be given, so that you can get production started during 2021. So that doesn't mean that the procedure is going to be different than it would be. In any case, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is always thoroughly involved in concession treatment and assesses different considerations. That will of course be the case in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1752	What made me take the floor was what the Council of State said about hydropower development within a profitable framework, because it's a strange mix. This is about flood protection in a protected watercourse. Flood protection is rarely profitable, it costs a lot. And so does Odda. My question is really: how should we ensure that the first issue is flood protection and that all aspects of it are assessed first – that it is only opening up for hydropower generation if all other issues have been assessed? The assessment must also cover possible funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1759	Firstly, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to say that I am pleased that, with the support of the Left, we have been given the opportunity to strengthen the work of securing Norwegian communities against flooding and migration. At the same time, I firmly believe I could recall that one – up to several, preferably – of the representatives of Elvesuen's colleagues right after the budgetary conciliation was a fact, was out there criticising the government for spending too much money, a settlement of which the Left itself was a very central part. These are tough priorities; there are many communities that have challenges. When there are opportunities to identify projects that take care of both the protection values and profitable power generation, while at the same time strengthening flood protection, I believe there are opportunities we should look for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1766	I am pleased with what Tord Lien said that this was not a concession treatment, but that the concession treatment would come after. It makes it sound as if Tord Lien is open to say yes to the treatment of the flood tunnel, that he is open to a yes to the flood tunnel, but also open to say no to the power development if it has negative consequences, since it is, after all, taking place in a sheltered watercourse. That's why my simple question is to Tord Lien: Is it that if you say no to the expansion of power, or if you even want to build up power, Tord Lien is willing to put up with the money that goes from the state to get a flood tunnel in place, so that people in Odda can be safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1774	I am pleased that the majority of the population who have adopted the budgets in the last four years have strengthened their efforts to protect Norwegian communities from the dangers of flooding and migration in many places in the country. In many parts of the country, there is a need for a large-scale society. For a long time, the rules for the preparation of priorities have been such that the NVE assesses where these types of actions should be given priority. I am glad that the bulk of the population has made it possible for the NVE to get a lot more in this area than what they got when SV put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1781	The Odda population is probably primarily concerned about ensuring that it is safe and not about having a power plant built up. I can read from the NVE's assessment that it says about the significance of this. However, it has to be pointed out again that a power build as outlined will give the river section a completely changed character in terms of water flow variation and as a landscape element in Odda Centre. In addition, this potential study shows the negative impact on river anadromous fish species: salmon and trout. It's not like the Odda people have to expand this power station in order to set up a flood tunnel. Then my question is, could it be that Tord Lien and the government are willing to open up to help fund this flood tunnel even if it was said no to power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1788	To the extent that something is said about the concession — which a natural enough has not yet been done — that kind of assessment will be carried out by the ministry. It has a cost page. Building a flood tunnel of the size outlined in Multiconsult's report is designed to cost about 170 million. kr. Locally, the cost has been between 200 and 400 million. kr for a slightly larger tunnel. It's not right for me to stand here, on behalf of the NVE, and tell you what priorities are to be made in the years ahead. I am pleased that we have strengthened the NVE's budget and therefore their ability to implement the type of projects that the representative Eidsvoll Holmå's demand. But it's probably not like I'm ready to process this from Storting's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1793	The opovas strip is protected by Stortinget, based on very good professional reasons and in line with the Norwegian tradition that we protect what is most valuable and most important. Then I also assume that the government is basing itself on the primary premise that this is a watercourse that we have adopted and agreed that we should not destroy. Then we have a discussion about the possibilities to start a watercourse development with flood protection as a pass, but from a normal point of view, the main goal will be to avoid destroying a watercourse. Can the State Council confirm that the primary objective of this case is not to destroy a protected watercourse? Or is the main objective of the Council of State to find a passout to build it out?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1798	Let me be quite clear that the most important thing about this work is to take care of the life and health of the inhabitants of all parts of the country, including the Odda community. I think the Odda community is also primarily concerned about that. I feel, unlike the previous replicator, that there is strong support in the Odda community for the project outlined in this case. I understand that you can be against hydropower expansion, but to put similarities between hydropower expansion and saying that the river is destroyed – I have to say that I do not recognize myself in it. On the contrary, some of the best and most species-rich Norwegian watercourses are regulated watercourses: Orkla, Gaula, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1803	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1810	Many representatives of the Progress Party are giving priority to promising toll cuts to people all over the country. They point to the toll station after the toll station and say, "You'll get less tolls, you'll get less tolls – and you and you and you. But when we ask Tord Lien who is going to get safe rivers to live near by, it is not possible to bring home any message from him in any other way than by saying what Ketil Solvik-Olsen says every time he is asked whether he wanted to go in for these toll projects, namely that it is not the desire of the Progress Party to go in for these toll projects. Similarly, one could well say about the budgetary agreement that has now come: it was not Tord Lien's wish to get this extra money to flood protection, but they came, so it was good that they came into the budget agreement. But the message from Tord Lien is not possible to take in any other way than the following: The only way you can be absolutely sure of getting flood protection in your protected watercourses is if you build a power plant. We'll open that up. It's okay. Let's go, let's go, That's what's the consequence, and it's possible to bring home after today. I am sure that if Tord Lien sent a survey to the inhabitants of Opo – if you choose, will you have a flood tunnel and floodproof river with power plant, or will you have it without power plant? – it would have been interesting to look at the answer. I think that Odda's people had said that the important thing for them is, of course, to get a flood tunnel; the important thing for them is to have a safe river to live along, because the river that they once thought was safe, is now taking new rivers and being seen today as insecure, and it's going to be difficult floods in line with the fact that climate change is expected to give 40 pst. precipitation. And that's what you have to dimension for when you do this. For Odda's inhabitants, the NVE clearly states the following: ‘However, it must be pointed out that a power build as outlined will give the river section a completely changed character, both in terms of water flow variation and as a landscape element at Odda Centre.’ I think that if you had asked people, you would ask the question that I was asking – whether they would have flood protection if the state were involved in co-financing, instead of taking power development – people would say that they would of course have a flood tunnel in the first place. That's why I can say that I am a proud member of the SV, who puts money on the table and says that we would be involved in financing flood recovery in Odda. We would be involved in projecting for it, because we believe it is important that we, who have served hard to sell oil, also have to help the communities that are now affected by climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1824	I have to admit that I didn't intend to take the floor in this case, but when I hear the argument in a case where the community is exposed, where life and health are at stake, and where we know that this eleven has repeatedly done damage, it's actually about protecting communities and using the natural values that lie in this community to create new values – actually to create one of the most sought-after things that are: pure energy. A flood tunnel is proposed that can also be used to generate power in that context. One can of course choose other options. And given the discussion that has been going on, both from the Labour Party and others – now the Labour Party is united with us in the setting, and I am pleased about it – and when the Left uses the argument that we use too much resources in this State budget, I thought the reply to the Council of State was good, when he said that here we can actually protect communities at the same time as we create values. It's a win-win situation for absolutely everyone. This distance should, in my opinion, be subject to concession treatment. There is no danger of destroying the watercourse, so it can be heard by some. It's a good solution; it's a safe solution; it's a solution that creates renewable energy, as I call it – and last but not least: it creates security in a community in which there's a hurry to create security. We witnessed the destruction of the last flood, and we'd rather not see it again. So the solution that has now been outlined, and the proposal for a decision that is leading, is a good and sensible proposal and a good and sensible decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1833	On my question, the Council of State is carefully unwilling to confirm that the primary objective of the government is to respect the protection decision taken by the Stortinget. Instead, the Council of State is talking about saving the Odda community from damage. But there is not a soul on this collapse that disagrees with the inclusion of flood protection measures in the Opova stretch. It is a total derailment also by the representative Grimstad to show respect for the protection against flood protection. The only question is: are we going to put flood protection measures into a protected watercourse without destroying the protection, or are we going to use climate change and the need for flood protection as a pretext for expanding a watercourse The Storting originally decided to be protected? And it's quite clear at the state council where he wants to go. He even performs to explain to us that there are better watercourses that are built out than watercourses that are not built out, and that is a very effective way to explain that protection is just customs, nature gets better when we hit holes on it. So we're in a discussion that's very fundamental. We're in a discussion about whether we're going to use climate change as a new haven to destroy what we've decided to protect, or whether we're going to take the responsibility that comes with the fact that the climate is changing, which we're strongly responsible for, and say that that bill we have to pay, while taking care of the natural values that this big thing has said that it's so important that we protect. Now, maybe we'll go through with the Labour Party, with the Right, with the Advance Party and with the votes of the Center Party. What's the next one going to be? Well, this is going to happen over and over again. There's going to be watercourses after watercourses where we need flood protection, and where someone is proposing to build it up to fund it. It is very important that everyone in Norway now hears what the Stortinget is doing, namely that at the very first opportunity one runs backwards out of the protection obligations and the understanding of what natural values are worth, and then a new commitment is found by expanding the rest. This is a gross violation of the fundamental principles of nature protection on which the Storting has been founded, and it is a scary example of how little is understood by the commitments that come with climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1842	I thought I would try to give a brief summary of the debate and some comments. It is clear that there is a broad consensus that something has to be done. It was also reflected in the unanimous request decision asking for a case where the combined flood tunnel and power plant were also included. Using the big passions to condemn that there's a proposal in line with what the Storting has asked for may be a little counterproductive. I think we'd be more upset if it wasn't done as Stortinget unanimously asked. I have all the respect for the political contradictions that lie in this, but I think we're going to align ourselves a little bit with what we've done before, too, from all sides. It has been said that this river was safe until October 2014. It's a truth with modifications. In the area around Sandwine Water, you have, as I said, flood problems every year. This is nothing new, this is something that has lasted a long time, and that it has been working and taking different measures over time – and some have actually deteriorated. I think it is important to be clear that what we are doing today is not to decide that power plants are to be built in the Opova stretch. We decide to open it up for a concessional treatment of this. At the same time, we say that the possibility study from Multiconsult should be included, we say that the protection values should be respected, and we say that the salmon space in the watercourse should be preserved. So there is a framework around what needs to be done – which follows the case in this case. Then there is a thorough process, based on how we process hydropower development, which is going to give a final result. And then we'll see what the result is. I am unable to express myself that in some places we are making flood measures as cost-effective as possible. If it is possible to have effective flood measures that take care of the concerns I have pointed out and that are also financed by a power development, that is good. In many places it won't be possible at all, and the big community has to go in. We have to remind each other that we have a violent aftermath in terms of flood and evacuation measures all over the country, a aftermath that is just waiting for rowdy politicians who want to give money to it. I believe that the setting as it exists is both reasonable, good and balanced in its form.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1859	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1865	I think it was a good summary of the rapporteur. It is quite right that we disagree on the last balance, because there is a basis for the views of the case-rapporteur and the Labour Party, namely that we should be able to accept what we call as cost-effective climate mitigations as possible – if it means expanding power. I'll go back to the minutes and look at the exact words, but that's probably what Per Rune Henriksen used. There's something different than what Per Rune Henriksen said about the config last year. Thus, it is very clear that only in cases where other flood mitigation measures are tested, where life and health are at stake, and where protection values are not significantly affected, should power be assessed. So here we're able to do the other things without building up the power plant, the simple thing is that you're funding it. It wasn't exactly what a unanimous big deal said last year. I also see that the committee chairman, who negotiated this with the Right, mentioned it. Finally, I have a question to the Council of State: Will this matter, the concession treatment, come back – in line with what is stated in the Energy Communication comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1874	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1892	First of all, a great thank you to both the presidency and the minister, who are so eloquent that we got this case up, while it's still very topical. With a broad majority, the size has seen a measure of Norway’s being the world’s leading maritime nation, and a clear goal of increasing the value creation of marine nutrition. In this interview, I would like to highlight what is going on in order to achieve this goal within sustainable, environmental frameworks and at the same time ensure good fishing welfare. In recent times, there have been searchlights on whether or not the environmental images are too large, and whether or not there is good enough fishing welfare. Growth in the world’s population leads to an increasing global need for food. Health authorities around the world recommend increasing the intake of seafood in order to improve public health. The world's agricultural area is under pressure. Climate change strengthens this pressure on the food soil. Many of the increases in food production therefore have to be achieved through increased production of seafood. About 70 pst. of the earth's surface is sea. The harvesting of wild fish must take place within a resilient framework, and it is important to better manage important fish stocks, increase the exploitation of raw material from both wild fish and aquaculture and the exploitation of new species, including the so-called LUR species – the low-exploited resources. It's probably a fact that there may be a lot of unused resources in the ocean that we don't yet know about. The commitment to research and knowledge acquisition is therefore crucial. I also want to be able to point out health by eating more seafood. It is likely that growth in seafood will have to come first in the aquaculture sector. We've seen this cottage of fish where lice have eaten themselves through the skin and down the skull of the fish. There might be a lot of explanations, but there's no excuse to let it go as far as we've seen here. How could this happen? Do we have rules that are too much law food? Are the appeals for liberals? The questions are many, and I have no doubt that the Minister for Fisheries is as disgusted as I am, of these forms. The question is, how are we going to work together to find solutions that deliver both good fish welfare and production growth? I don't want to trivialize it, but I still want to stress that it's the exception and not the rule we've seen. It might be nice to remind ourselves that we actually cough 1.3 million tonnes of salmon annually from Norwegian farms, in the 2015 figures. In addition, other fish and crustaceans, some 800 million tonnes. In order to build on this success, we need to ensure that we have the right tools in the toolbox, and that the bet is made within resilient frames and with good fish welfare. One of the challenges we see is how we can counteract negative environmental effects from treatment against salmonidosis. In particular, this applies to the discharge of water by bathing agent from wellboat and to the use of flubenzurons, chitin synthesis inhibitors and medicinal products in different combinations. This has been out on the phone, and I look forward to the Minister's follow-up of the recordings. There are a lot of notions about problems for shellfish, especially for shrimps and bumblebees, that we get to the Storting these days. I think there is too little knowledge in this area and the consequences of draining water with a bath detergent in the sea. Is the minister in it? A broad majority of Stortinget’s production area is defined and the total environmental impact in the area is determined as to whether a further growth occurs. This I think was a wise decision. Lus is the first criterion, but the Stortinget was also ready to start a work with an emission indicator and an alternative emission model where the permitted environmental impact is defined for each actor. This work may have stopped working. I expect the minister to say more about it. Norway has international obligations relating to the Atlantic wild species. There is a broad consensus that we should have both wild salmon and farmed salmon in the future as well. I also think that the effort to survive more smolts from the wild will have to be intensified, and then you can't just focus on lus. It's an undisputed fact that lakselus kills 1 pst. of the reversing salmon. I would like to refer to the measures proposed by the Norwegian Villaks administration, where proper management of salmon farming practice is good. The Stortinget has also focused on escape, and the Stortinget is gathering about a zero vision. We've also asked the government to develop a strategy for escape. Where's he going? All in all, Stortinget has gathered on many and important decisions to ensure bearer and fish welfare, and I look forward to hearing the Minister’s views on this. Are our tools good enough for us to become the world's leading seammate with good fish welfare in the high-seat – and within environmentally sustainable frameworks? I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1936	I would first like to thank the interpellant, which promotes a very important interpellant. It's an important debate, and it's right that the interpellant points out that there's a lot going on here. As the interpellant also has it, we're still not in the goal of the knowledge necessary to achieve the goal. That's why there's a lot of processes going on. We have witnessed this fall, as the interpellant points out, completely unacceptable conditions in some facilities at Frøya in the South-Tronde Layer. I think we're all 100 pst. agree that this should not be the case. I hope that the Stortinge has respect for the fact that I cannot comment on specific issues that are under investigation, but nevertheless, like the interpellant, I would like to make it clear that the cases we have seen here are not representative of the industry as a whole. I think that's important to clarify. We know that negative attention to single actors can give a negative impression of the industry, and it's going to be completely wrong. Many breeders — most of them — are able to manage the problems of salmon fever in a proper way, and it is getting better and better. The cases we've seen at Fröya are similar to the animal tragedy that we've sometimes seen in agriculture. Then we all agree that these are individual cases, and something we take the complete distance from. It is the responsibility of the animal owner to carry out — in this case — the fishing welfare, including killing the fish, if necessary. Good fishing welfare has its own value and is an important prerequisite for good fishing health, good quality, good reputation and good profitability. This is therefore something that the industry cannot afford to go on chords with. In the case of salmoneus, we need to assess the health and well-being of both farmed fish and wild fish. Low lice levels are important for keeping wild fish, but at the same time it is important to ensure that the treatment of farmed fish does not interfere with the welfare of the fish. The Food Authority is responsible for the management of animal welfare, both for terrestrial animals and for fish. This is a work on which the Food Authority attaches great importance. I trust that they will do this in a good way for all animals. I would also like to add that the Food Safety Authority handled the matter in a very good way in the South-Trundelag. Food surveillance follows up the farming industry through the reports that the industry is required to provide, and carries out monitoring visits on a random basis and in the case of notification of concerns. There was also a routine check at the slaughterhouse that allowed the Food Safety Authority to reveal the problems at Frøya. Food surveillance has a number of instruments used in this type of case. They may take decisions to prevent further suffering, including: by means of a periodic penalty payment or a decision to extinguish. In the event of irreparable damage, they may use an infringement fee, a police report and the withdrawal of biomass. We have seen in the autumn that the Food Authority is not afraid to use these tools when needed. Negative stories of salmon and lice affecting farmed salmon and wild fish weaken confidence in the aquaculture industry in Norway. We can't afford that. This is a reputational challenge that requires industry to act together. Just as salmon finds the way to new markets around the world, so images and media surveys on salmon and escape find the way to international consumers. The work on ensuring confidence in the aquaculture industry in the world starts here at home. The Public Service Act regulates the right of access to documents in public activities. I think we can agree that this law ensures transparency in a society that we're all served with. In view of the fact that the farming industry operates in the general public, they must also be able to be checked in the cards. As I see it, sharing information through pages like BarentsWatch is helping to create an openness that actually benefits the industry. Then we're all sitting on the same information, which gives a much more constructive, honest and nuanced debate about what the state is and which gives transparency in terms of the state, the challenges we're facing, and the solutions we're going to seek. The food should not only be safe, it should also be healthy and sustainable. Clean sea, fresh fish, little medicine use, healthy and safe food from the sea – all this is connected. The NRK Focus Salmon Adventure reminded us that the experience of healthy and safe seafood can be difficult – or impossible – to distinguish from the issue of production methods and environmental impact. What's more important than serving safe food? Few things create more noise and trouble than when people think they eat food that is not safe. The perceptions of undesirable substances, lack of sustainability or suffering in animals may cause someone to steer away from sea food. Then reality can easily be shaped by what people think is reality. I want everyone in Norway – and all our export markets – to be sure that the Norwegian fish they eat are actually safe and healthy, and that it has had good health and well-being. I know that our breeders work every day on the periphery. Food surveillance ensures that this is closely monitored by the authorities. To make it clear: the welfare of the fish must be ensured, in line with all other animals. We see that the aquaculture industry needs to be kept a little bit in mind. As the Council of State, I am not afraid to say that. In the autumn, there have been several sad episodes, more than what I and many others appreciate – I have to say. Authorities must use the tools we have to take out those who run poorly, so that those who run well can achieve growth and predictability. That is why I think, and I am glad that the interpellant also says so, that we should have joint ambitions that the aquaculture industry should become stronger, that the management of aquaculture should become stronger, that the legislation should be better, more accurate and fair, and – not least – that we should speed up new technologies to help us fight against lice. In both management, technology development and research on new feed materials and species, we are in a very exciting time. We see that the grip with, among other things, development concessions are effective. The marine industry is now using huge resources on new technologies and developments. Many good ideas have come in to bring us into the next generation of aquaculture industry, which also meets the challenges we are witnessing. New production methods, different forms of closed plants, plants moving further into the sea, and farming on land are coming faster than we think. The measures show that the industry is taking action to find solutions to the challenges that today raise doubts about the sustainability of the industry and that follow up what the Storting has said that we are dividing the country into production areas, where the overall burden within these production areas is to be the leading factor in this. So, as the interpellant also points to, there are a number of measures that are now both on the table and that I am working in parallel with, which relate to the production areas, the lice regulation and other areas, which make us target a regulatory framework and a management that helps to help the industry in the future, with new developments within sustainable objectives, but which also enable us to achieve those objectives together. Then the interaction between research, management and industry needs to be even more focused than what is actually being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1976	Of course, I have respect for the fact that the individual case cannot be commented on, and neither did I in my post. I very much agree with what was said, that good fishing welfare has its own value in itself. We'd like to say that from the Storting Chair, and more often. However, I still do not have a response to proposals, i.e. concrete measures on how to avoid this happening again in the future. The minister also said that the tools should be more accurate. Could it get more detailed what you see when you say that they should be more accurate? Then it would be very nice to get an answer when we can expect the different strategies that the Storting asked for in connection with the Maritime Industry Selection. Marine farming is a very important industry, and there are important jobs in the districts and across the country. But it is also about, as the Minister said, that the consumer should be sure that Norwegian farmed salmon is both safe and healthy to eat and that he is produced under satisfactory conditions. Both we, politicians and industry themselves, want to grow in production, and huge resources are being used to bring the loop to life. Growth has been facilitated when nutrition is controlled by this lice problem. As I have already pointed out, it is important that we also expand the indicators on criteria other than lice. Here we might not quite agree that progress is perfect. I just have to say that I'm impatient to put in place an environmental indicator, which I think would be of great help to the industry. I would also like to point out that the Labour Party in all its alternative budgets has strengthened the Food Authority in addition to its government's proposals, and that strengthened food supervision would have been a good help in today's situation. I hope for more detail, as I said, about concrete measures. And if it's true that the lice growth of the reported plants started in ours, as it's shown in the media, we can't be content that it took so long before it came to extinction, as the minister now pointed out. So the question is really, a little bit more concrete: are we happy that this was discovered by a routine checkup? So of course we're not going to judge from the media's description, but I have to admit that it was a very unpleasant sight, and it makes something about the reputation of an entire industry that we could be in front of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1987	Let me just repeat what I said in my first post: I have a lot of faith in technology development, and there I see a tearing development. As far as development concessions are concerned, 43 different companies have applied for authorisation. Now I'm not saying that all of these get a positive decision, but if everyone should have a positive decision, we're talking about investments of between 15 and 20 billion. kr in the fight for a forward-looking and sustainable farming industry. But many get positive feedback, and there's an incredible amount out there. So that's right, and I get the interpellant very well, that you have to be impatient, because we all have great ambitions. That is why, as I said, with regard to the other criteria, this with the emission model and the escape model, which Stortinget has also said is going to enter as a criterion, it is now working parallel with putting these production areas into place in some way in 2017, so that we can start measuring the results of the models to be implemented, and then 2017 will be an exciting year. We lack some competence to measure how the infection pressure in the Norwegian farming industry is becoming in relation to the wild species, and that is important. It is not that the wild species is to control the aquaculture industry, but it is important to ensure the wild species that we have criteria for the farming industry that ensures this, and that we are working on it. But it takes some time, because we lack some competence on it. The same thing about the escape model, it's also working on, parallel. Total load within production areas shall be measured through models in 2017. And then I'm going to get to Stortinget in a suitable way, as the Stortinget has said, with the model being chosen. Then it is that the government and the partners in the 2017 budget also believe – at least there was no disagreement, to say the least – that research, management and supervision related to these challenges should increase significantly. There were also 10 million. kr extra to the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, almost earmarked for the lice problem, in order to gain more knowledge about this. This is also the case with the lice regulation, which the Food Safety Authority is now working on, a food inspection that has been significantly strengthened in its budgets. Although there is probably no target, the Danish Food Safety Authority now exercises more extensive control and supervision than has been done in the past. A comprehensive campaign has been launched by the Food Safety Authority in 2016, and it will also be in 2017, just to have better control. It is also true, as the interpellant says, that the industry itself has a significant responsibility on its shoulders for both counting, reporting and taking action when it is seen that it is going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e1998	I want to open with thanking the interpellant for the opportunity to discuss an important topic, but it's a conditional thank you, because it's a very broken topic we're dealing with now. When the interpellant asks how we can facilitate that we will not see similar cases in the future, I believe that we should initially think about that wording. We will see similar cases in the future, precisely because we have good oversight in Norway, and we will have so much openness around this type of operation that part of the processes is that the public will know what is going on. So we've adopted in Stortinget a model of knowledge acquisition around the aquaculture industry that will give us many good tools in this work. The traffic light model we've adopted is a model for gaining knowledge, for managing knowledge and for setting a framework around operations that will reduce the number of these cases in the future, hopefully. But it's also the way that, as politicians, we have to keep our heads cold sometimes, be clear about role-sharing and role-understanding, so that we don't step into it and pre-prosecution difficult things, which not only hit companies, but actually also hit employees at the very bottom of the street. I think this matter has been a little difficult, as I have seen. I think we have good things to do to right our backs and sometimes think about the principle of power distribution. So that's how a case has to be investigated, and then it's going to be judged, not by us, until someone's judged, but by the courts. I think we see examples in the media, as in the case of Trondelag, that it hasn't been taken care of all along. I believe that there is a difference between putting things out on BarentsWatch to inform the public, and using the tipped phone of the Address Paper on a case. IntraFish interviewed on 23 November Ivar Eiken, head of the Food Safety Department in Trondheim and its surroundings. He says that it is common for them to make messages, for the sake of the stock exchange. Now it is probably the case that the companies themselves are required to assess what is exchange-sensitive for their operations, so that the notifications are to be made by the companies – it is not primarily the task of the Food Safety Authority. But the company was informed that a decision would be taken, and then he said that what might be unusual is that they had also notified the Address Paper an hour before that there might be a notification about a matter they might be interested in. We said nothing about the contents, says the good Ivar Eiken. Here's a little bit of what I think is problematic. A supervisory body that finds it opportune to tip off the newspaper that they have done a job today also creates uncertainty about those processes. And it creates uncertainty about legal certainty when people from the administration and supervision find it opportune to alert the newspaper an hour before notifying the company concerned, and before publishing the press release itself. The exact understanding of which hat you wear, even when you're in charge, it's important that we're a little obsessive and debated, because we're going to have as clean and legal processes as possible. Then we're going to raise supervision, then we're going to raise the industry, and then we're going to be able to stand straight back, no matter what room we're in, and say that here we've laid a political framework that allows us to get animal welfare in the top international class, we have food production in the top international class, and we can hit our chests and say that we've arranged to become the world's leading seamate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2009	The interpellant writes that the Labour Party has the goal of becoming Norway's leading maritime nation, and wants to increase the value creation in maritime nutrition, something that the Progress Party can also join. In addition, the representative writes that reliable management must be ensured and that violations of the legislation must be caught early. Yes, I agree with that, and with the extra resources that are now available. go to leaching and additional supervision of the Food Safety Authority, this should be carried out to a greater extent. However, those who are engaged in breeding have the responsibility – and there is a special obligation on them – to comply with applicable laws and regulations. So the interpellant also asks the important question: ‘How can we put together so that we don’t see similar negative things in the future?’ Let me first point out that it is good that no one wants to be part of the everyday life, is exposed, and that it is reported to the police. We're not supposed to be like this, and with a backstop of ever-new export records, we know that a bad example will hit the industry very hard. Marine industry is facing one of the biggest changes in government for very many years. The Storing message, which will end in a new regulatory framework, will set the premise for growth and future organisation in the whole industry, as well as the big news of growth in the aquaculture industry – among others. through the traffic light system – that we cannot experience such conditions. The industry itself also supports the main device, that lice should be the environmental indicator for production regulation, and that is very important. The ambitions of growth in this sector are very large. If we're going to reach that goal, we can't let it become a part of everyday life what we saw recently, which the Council of State was also about not wanting to see at all. Growing fish for food is brilliant. There is a viable way to produce food; greenhouse gas emissions are low, waste can be taken care of, phosphorus can be recycled, fish are healthy, workplaces are decentralised, and there is a good economy in this activity. It is – as many describe it as – simply an adventure. And then there's also no human activity that doesn't track it when it's related to these indicators. However, if the objective of a four-fifth doubling of today’s production is to be achieved, it is crucial that all actors in this industry understand the importance of serious and good governance. lice treatment with chemicals is a challenge, it shows the research we've seen. But we produce 35-36 million meals every day, and with an increase in the population, from 7 to 9 billion people, we see that the oatmeal is the place where we are forced to take a larger part of the food from. Today we take 2-3 pst. of our food from the ocean, so it should and can be increased. But there is a raging development, which the Council of State was also involved in. I'm going to give you $10 million. kr extra, among others for leaching. The Food Authority will have extra controls, and we have the potential to achieve the goal of becoming the world's best and largest marine population. In the end, I am glad that the representative Bakke-Jensen also came up with some corrective words with regard to the Food Authority, because we sometimes experience that the Food Authority is dealing with matters in the media, and that is not good for trust in the Food Authority. When a criminal offence is detected and taken into action, it is the way it should be, but when one in addition starts to process in the media, it is by no means lucky, and it should be carefully thought through. We have food supervision along our entire coast and several offices that carry out the tasks of the Food Authority. Then it cannot be that one food overseer has this kind of activity, while others operate in a completely different way. There has to be an attempt to coordinate more closely, so that it stands out as trustworthy and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2038	I would like to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing an important topic and would like to add some comments to the debate that has been so far. There is no doubt that there is a level of conflict between authorities and industry. There's been a series of comments about that. We have also seen — at least periodically — that the Council of State has fluctuated in that debate. The first challenge will be to have better cooperation between authorities and industry, not only under supervision and with decisions, but also through dialogue to control the industry. In the long term, I believe that it is a far more effective way to control the industry than by decision and possibly subsequent legal proceedings. It's a problem that I hope the Council of State can discuss a little, considering what his thoughts are to solve it. Then one comes up quickly in the dilemma of creating different models and framework conditions for nutrients. One of the things I noticed, as the Council of State said in its speech, illustrates that particular dilemma. The council said one should take out those who drive badly, so that it can grow for those who drive well. Yes, it's very easy to agree. At the same time, a model of production area, which means that one considers managing several of those who are engaged in farming, one at a time – a kind of collective management. That's where it's quick to go in the spaghetti. I'm not going to blame the state council for that, but there's no doubt that the model that Stortinget has agreed to is giving challenges, and we have to make sure that the administration builds on the fact that the one who runs breeding can directly influence his own growth by driving well. Another element that is important to ensure the legitimacy of the farming industry is that the communities that make land available are given their share of it. The principle hold of the centre party is that we want an area charge. So we've chosen the Storting rather to go in for the model with a farm fund, to get a broadest possible political majority for it. The first payments will be made in 2016. Whenever growth is forecast, the Farm Fund will be a gold mine for farming municipalities. But I want to challenge the Council of State whether he has updated expectations in addition to what is described in the State budget, and beyond what is described in the 2016 balancing proposal, about how the development and payment of the Maritime Fund will be made in the future. It's a significant outrage in local communities along the coast after getting the money they think they're entitled to. The ambition of Norway, which is the world's leading seamate, also shares the centre party, and we are also concerned that when it comes to reality, and when it comes to growth, it has to be done with a variety of actors: big players and medium-sized players, but also with small players. It applies both to fisheries and to farming. It will weaken the legitimacy of the industry if it is such that all salmon are on the stock exchange. We need the local ownership; we need an opportunity to establish ourselves as new, both within fisheries and within farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2055	First to Pollestad: I'm very much in agreement with many of the assessments he's made relating to marine funds, etc., but I didn't intend to address it in this debate, this is another kind of debate. I thought there were two very good posts from the interpellant and the Council of State, I would say, and give commendation for a good perspective. It was interesting to listen to, really. I think it is in the public interest for the first that the fish is healthy and healthy, and for the second that breeding does not destroy other life in the sea or other industries. I think that if you're going to be the world's leading seamate, it'll have to deal with this as well. It is in the public interest, both for business operators, coastal communities and other fish and other life in the sea. Then we're not even there yet, far on the way. I noticed in a sentence the council said at the end of its article. He took on stronger management, etc., but also pointed out that the solution was coming. I think if there's a place where there can be political disunity here, as it's open, it's along two axes. The one thing is, what should be the concern of the environment and other industries? How heavy does it have to be? And not least, to what extent should change come of itself through the industry, that is, what is the degree of public involvement in these matters? SV wants first of all the sea and other industries very high, and we believe that changes do not happen without a significant, significant public involvement in these matters. The more fish that live in a small area, in a mermaid, the more fish you have up there, the greater the risk of disease and infection, and an increased risk of harm, destruction of animal welfare, etc. But this can be counter-medication, but these drugs can have negative consequences for other lives. One is then in a situation where we have the fight against salmon, a big lice problem and political pressure to fight it, and then this is going to be very much combated by the use of drugs. The draining from the wellboats we know may have major consequences for other lives. In addition, we look at a new development of resistance in salmon, which also leads to the use of stronger doses of medicinal products, and we get what is called "race to the bottom" in English, where we have no idea what the continuation will be if you continue to increase dosages. HI and the University of Bergen pointed out in research just a little over a year ago that a cocktail, i.e. a medicine used in combination, has a much greater and negative effect than the drug itself. It has serious toxic consequences, as they speak of it as, and can kill shrimp populations several kilometers away from the place of discharge. I asked a question to the Minister for Fisheries about why the Ministry of Fisheries dropped proposals for a ban on the use of this kind of demonstrably negative cocktails, why he put it in the hearing draft that is out to the audience now. This adds up to the negative spiral we have to go through to shape the industry. What measures are there that we have at our disposal to meet this challenge? The fight against lusa is in a way central, both because of the use of medicinal products that have a far-off impact and because the lusa itself has a negative impact on the fish and on the wild species. Research has opened a way out of this. There's a lot of exciting reconnaissance going on. The CRISPR technology, which is a very scary technology, can create fish that, according to the theory, are both luxuries-vaccinated at first, impotent and home-carrying. He won't run away, my researchers. These are new technologies that isolate the problems to a much greater extent, that do not get emissions to the environment around them to a large extent, but stay inside. Then, of course, there are measures we rarely discuss here, but as I think we need to use it too. There are preventive measures, i.e. to reduce MTB – the maximum authorised biomass. Because it is clear that the more a step in a small area, the greater the risk of injury.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2072	Thank you to the interpellant, who addresses a very important topic and has given many, including the Council of State, the opportunity to make good and constructive contributions to a debate. That's promising. But I think we need to have as the starting point for this debate to take into account what is the situation of the farming industry. One is: I've been involved in the farming debate since about 2000, and I've lost most of my count on the number of government councils, the number of representatives of the industry and the number of business politicians who have insisted on fixing the lice problem. And we haven't fixed the lice problem. It has only escalated, in the sense that the total volume is at least as large as before, and the problems that follow the work to solve it, they partly increase. That is what we have to stop what happened when the pollution laws were introduced and applied to Norwegian industry in the 1970s, 1980s and beyond in the 1990s. It was pretty hard-handed stuff. There were quite strict demands for emissions to go away, there would be penalties if they did not disappear, and there was exposure in the media. It seemed fantastic! There is not a soul in the Norwegian industry today who regrets the horse industry’s past and which has led to emissions from Norwegian industry being down to a tenth — or even less — of what they were just a decade ago. It works to make the industry responsible. The industry is growing on it, becoming more efficient. The second thing we have to take over is what Norwegian farming is essentially about. It's a gigantic experiment that's trying to keep evolution away, and it's going to fail. When you put an astronomical number of host animals into a natural environment where there is a parasite that has – like all parasites – a colossal reproductive potential, three things happen: firstly, the parasite population explodes, and there is an enormous supply of parasites everywhere – all the time. Secondly, the industry is taking on ever-increasingly new and increasingly desperate instruments to combat the parasite. And thirdly, evolution and parasites are working together to develop parasites that are becoming increasingly resistant to more and more instruments, which are thus becoming increasingly powerful and used in a way that both reduces salmon welfare and leads to growing problems for the surrounding environment. There is only one long-term solution to that problem, and it is to distinguish the host animal – the salmon – and the parasite – the lice physically from each other, either in enclosed facilities or by farming in places where there is no salmonid. We're on our way in this direction, but it's going surprisingly slowly when you look at how this industry has evolved, and it's going surprisingly slowly when you look at what economy is actually in that industry. This is, of course, an industry with bottom-solid economic muscles and very large capacity to take responsibility for its own environmental problems. I fully agree with both the Council of State and everyone else who has remembered that it is very worrying that Norwegian farming industry is still exposed in Norwegian and international media, with a negative impact on its own animal of origin, salmon, and on the sea trout, and now with animal welfare problems, which is the worst advertising Norwegian seafood can imagine. An industry that does not immediately take responsibility for solving the problem needs help, and it needs the help of authorities that have the task of setting the requirements that the industry has promised to comply year after year, but not to comply. Then it's interesting with the fundamental debate on whether the Food Authority is going to expose breeders. I remember what the Food Authority is doing with restaurants. They hang geipefjes at restaurants that don't have enough hygiene. It's a hard-core tool and it talks directly to the customers. It just seems like it. Something like that needs the breeding industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2085	This is an exciting and important nourishment. 50,000 workers around the coast work either directly in this industry or indirectly — in other industries that depend entirely on the aquaculture industry. It's healthy food, and the world needs more food. And we need jobs. It is now such that all industries have footprints. But I agree with the previous speaker, Rasmus Hansson, who thinks we have to solve the challenges this industry has to face. It will work actively and intensively through development concessions. Looking at the amount of applications there, I have good faith that we will solve many of the challenges facing this industry in order to meet society's expectations for growth and development in this industry. We can all be certain that the images that the interpellant referred to are not good. That's a bad picture. Then it's very good to hear from both the Minister of Fisheries and the interpellant that they think this is not representative of the industry. It is also the responsibility of others in the Chamber. I would like to make it clear that this is not representative of the companies involved. I also think it is very important to bring it with me. It is also not representative of the sites involved. Now, some of these sites may have a bigger environmental challenge than other sites, and I think it's also important to take it into account when assessing the consequences of the fractures that have occurred here. I think it is important that we distinguish between feelings and facts in a matter like this. It is easy to tap into such images in the media and describe how bad the world is, and to cheer up the mood by joining in on something like this. I believe it is important, as the representative Bakke-Jensen said, that the supervisory authorities have not yet concluded in some of these cases. So we have to be a little careful about being judgmental before we know the actual outcome and conclusions of the judiciary and the supervisory system – before they make their final decision. We need to be clear that this is biological production, so we will be able to see images like this in the future as well. It's about the fact that some fish will in any case be so-called stargazers, so they'll be sick, they'll come to this world as bad fish, and they'll necessarily be more easily attacked by lice, more easily infected by diseases. We'll probably always have such images in the future no matter how one manages to solve the loop problems in our mores. It's about a completely different genetic fish if you want to avoid that the fish are different in these meridians. Ingrid Hegø says that there is no excuse for what has happened. It may not be. But there is an explanation as to why this has happened. I think one should get involved in these companies' responses before one concludes that there's something wrong here. It might have been that a prominent responsible agricultural politician from the Labour Party had done so. Then she might have had knowledge of just the explanations of why and how this could happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2099	I would also like to focus a critical searchlight on how to handle the food inspection. I am not entirely in agreement with the Minister for Fisheries, who claims that they have handled this in an excellent way – professionally perhaps, but not in the media. I found it sad that the public went to work so hard and worked in the way that the representative Bakke-Jensen referred to, before the company itself has given the explanation of how things could happen. I think it's very unfortunate that a supervisor acts that way – without perhaps there's any reason to make such claims that it's actually been made. I think the Food Safety Authority should exercise caution when it comes to publishing what they have covered by supervision, before they have made final decisions on the matters they work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2102	Thanks to everyone who has participated in the interpellation debate. We have a lack of debate and a good one. Thank you also for the answer from the Minister for Fisheries on when we can expect the emission model and the escape model, and on what is going on. I thought it was an important clarification that came from the minister that we lack knowledge of infection, wild breeds and breeding, which he focused on instead. I totally agree with that. If there's any doubt about development concessions, nobody in this room will think that everyone will get everything they've applied for. I think we might have had too little more. As I have said, we have had a lack of debate. I mean, the openness that we have in Norway is very important to keep. I want to pink the representative Bakke-Jensen for the clarification about the Food Authority – who should tip, and who's job it really is. I'm completely in agreement with the considerations that were made there. There was also an important clarification from the representative Trellevik that this is probably not representative of the companies mentioned, but the Labour Party and I have tried to judge or conclude in the police reports. On the contrary, I said clearly, in my second post, that we have respect for the fact that we cannot discuss individual companies – nor should we do so in this matter. What we haven't discussed so much here today is whether the production areas should be imported on such a large scale – that is, the whole country immediately, as it is supposed to be – or whether we had been able to introduce the area a little bit, so that we had the knowledge in place. It's to secure ourselves against the great gaps of knowledge we actually have, and to ensure that our policies are based on knowledge. We have also not discussed what to do with those who do not follow up on good fish welfare. It would also be very good to get the Minister's view on it. I think there is a lot of agreement that we should be in the front line in research and development – and also in gaining knowledge. I mean, I've heard from all the articles in the matter today, and of course I support it myself. The aim of this debate is still to ensure that Norway is the world’s foremost maritime name, with the world’s best fish welfare, and that this is done within a resilient environment framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2124	I would also like to thank you for a good debate, and I am absolutely sure that it is not the last debate we want on these challenges, with the ambitions that lie at the root. Let me just briefly comment on a few things. As far as the Food Authority is concerned, I have also received some concerns that there is discrimination around, but be aware that the Food Authority operates to a large extent. The majority of the job of the Food Safety Authority is to engage in dialogue and guidance – the Food Safety Authority takes decisions only where necessary – the majority of the job is there, and I believe that it is doing very well, which is also very much in support of the industry. It's important to clarify. I think it is very good and right to conclude that the health status of the Norwegian farming industry is good, and that Norway is free from the vast majority of internationally listed diseases. This is a young industry in Norway. We have the advantage, and we can do this. But there's more to go on. It is also worth noting that the farmed salmon is now the most controlled food product in Norway. There are 12,000 to 13,000 individuals who are checked every year, and so far no results have been found in any of these controls that go beyond the limits set for food — and it is important to clarify. But it's clear that when you get these situations, of course, we have some challenges. The interpellant also asks about what tools we have. I have a quality check. Of course, the breeding and rearing of fish is under all the other laws we have, the Food Act, the Animal Welfare Act, etc., and the Progress Party and the Government have also put in place an animal police force. So the control mechanisms and sanctions are available in the same way to aquaculture as to other types of animals. With regard to the other criteria on which the interpellant is concerned and which the Storting has adopted, I know at least that what has come the longest is the criteria for escape, with a strategy. I know that. It comes to my table hopefully before Christmas, so I get to sign it out as well. But with regard to the emissions model, I must admit that there must be a little more patience, because it is complicated. It's creepy complicated. As I said at the outset, I have more cases at the hearing now. I run and gather the hearings, including: this with ‘drop zones’ for the bathing water. I also look at medicine. When the representative of Knag County asked questions about why I'm not imposing a ban, it's because I'm open that it suddenly comes up drugs that might help us all, and then we can't put down a ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2144	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2161	The President will propose that the statement on the closure of the FM network be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2169	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a new external assessment of the DAB coverage, as well as the security around the network and wait with the closure of the FM network until all the requirements of the Storting technology change can be guaranteed.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2198	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the cessation of the closure of the FM network.’ The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2215	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to follow closely the closure of the FM network and to ensure on an ongoing basis that the preparedness is not hit and that the coverage is met in line with the Storting assumptions.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Progress Party and the Central Party have notified subsidized the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2242	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2251	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens proposal No 4, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 11 S is sent back to the Government so that the knowledge base of the forthcoming Multiconsult report and its analysis can be included as a basis for both the Ministry's recommendation and the Storting's decision.» [[2016-2017]] The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2280	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose State co-financing to ensure the development of the river tunnel in the lower part of the Opovas line in the Municipality of Odda, and to propose this in the context of the revised national budget for 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2295	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size allows for concessional treatment of flood tunnel development plans in the lower part of the Opovas line in the Odda municipality of Hordaland.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to the Stortinget a concession for the development of flood tunnels and power stations in the lower part of the Opovas line in Odda Municipality of Hordaland for Stortinget, before any final concession is granted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2327	The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2339	President! I was too late, so it was going to be a green voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2344	It's important not to be green when voting here. [[Laughter]] Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2361	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-07.ana.ud321e2375	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
