ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e32	The following alternates have taken their seat: For the West-Agder countries: Benjamin Groenvold For Akershus County: Siri Engesetzh For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas, Laila Gustavsen and Christopher Wand For Finnmark County: Ingarill Olsen For the county of Hordaland: Charlotte Spurkeland For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Steinar Reiten For the Nordic counties: Greta Johanne Solfall and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren For Oslo: Une Aina Bastholm For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Gunhild Berge Stag For Eastfold County: Håvard Jensen and Wenche Olsen From the meeting of the alternate of the Eastfold County, Wenche Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Thursday 18 February under the authority of representative Stein Erik Lauvås, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Eastfold County, Fredrik Björnebeck, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e120	Unemployment in Norway is record high. Most of the growth in unemployment is due to lower activity on Norwegian soil as a result of the dramatic fall in the oil price. The whole value chain of the oil industry is hit by the oil shock. Operators, suppliers and shipping companies cancel and leave employees. Norwegian Industry says they fear that in 2016 it will go from bad to worse. Since the beginning of this crisis a year ago, the industry has called for more power from the government. Just after the government change in 2013, the Minister of Industry was interviewed by the Finanzavisen. Then she was asked what she would do if there were worse times. The answer from the Minister of Industry was then: Give the difficult situation for the Norwegian economy, we as the government must be able to take action. Well, the measures have been let wait. The government is alarmingly passive in its approach to the challenges in the oil sector. In his eagerness to disclaim all responsibility, the government ends up on the spectator bench rather than being an active actor. Meanwhile, more and more people lose their jobs, and the crisis is getting clearer. The government is not responsible for the oil price drop, but can do anything to mitigate the consequences. The four-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr, to which reference is still made, many are looking for. In the foreseeable future, the oil and gas sector and maritime industry will contribute greatly to the creation of value for Norway. It is therefore essential to ensure that the world-leading competence of Norway in this field is not confused as a result of a short-term decrease in oil activity. It will be very cost-effective and counterproductive if this competence needs to be rebuilt. Uncertain times require safe leadership, and the way we deal with this crisis will determine how we are able to meet a new rise. Unfortunately, what the maritime value chain is now experiencing is not that we cut costs by working smarter or developing new technologies – on the contrary, the industry is experiencing a dramatic reduction in activity and a violent pressure from the operator to cut costs through lower margins to protect the cash flow of oil companies. This also leaves Norwegian jobs. There's probably good arguments to trim away the fat that's come on in good times, but there's a difference between being slim and being anorexic. In this context, it is good that there has been a debate on whether it is right for the largest and dominant company on Norwegian base, Statoil, to maintain its profits in this situation. The maritime industry clearly reports that it is the direct return on ownership that is the first hit if the companies cut costs. Looking beyond the oil sector, there is also a need to strengthen the maritime industry, which now has difficult times due to the decline in oil activity. For industry, it is essential to maintain skills to contribute to value creation when trends in the long term turn around. In order to maintain competence, there is a need for a change in the rules on permitting. In addition, there is a need for rapid notification of changes in the maritime strategy. The same applies to the new incentive arrangements for ship conditioning and contracting. This will create badly needed maritime jobs along the coast. It is alarming that the government is dabbling with such important measures when the industry meets demanding times. In the Labour Party, we have good dialogue with the social partners and take seriously the situation of many people. We come with them, and we feel with them. Our responses to the situation are threefold: actions to those who lose their jobs, measures to those companies that are struggling, and measures to help create the jobs of the future. In concrete terms, we have put forward proposals for a large-scale commitment to innovation, research and entrepreneurs. We believe that we need to focus on clusters, environmental technology schemes, skills and technology transfer measures, more flexible permitting legislation, conditioning system, climate action package and ferry offers with a focus on climate technology. A year and a half ago, LO and NHO went on the track and said: The government needs to improve the law on permitting. The government's response was not yet revised, and then only a reversal of the government's own cut came. The Prime Minister tried to calm down the situation that this is a long-established transition. Wrong, answered the industry. And now this weekend, the lo manager of the VG said the government is moving in the syrup. In the fall, LO and Norwegian Industry clearly said that there are now many who are going to wear out because the rise is waiting. Therefore, 30 weeks in the permit code are too short for the situation. The Workers' Party introduced an extended 52-week scheme into its alternative budget, without the support of the government. When we have asked why the government has not answered the parties' prayers for this, the answer has been: We follow the situation closely. We'll have to wait and see. It's not a good idea because it's out of the question. There are some states that are particularly hard hit – one of them is Rogaland. I asked the LO Secretary in Rogaland, Øystein Hansen, if he seems to extend the period of leave to 52 weeks is to exclude labour. He says that the government's argument does not fit into the situation of Rogaland. It's hard to find a new job there. The companies lack a job, but they expect to get new projects in time. And many have now spent the 30 weeks they have the opportunity to permit their employees. As a consequence, they are now cancelling employees. The challenge then is that they will lack acquired competence when the arrow points up again. We see many signals from trust-elected and company managers that when the companies are going to fill up again, access to temporary employment by the Working Environment Act will mean that the companies will recruit through the staffing agency. Either they pick up unemployed persons who have the skills to do so or they pick up foreign labour through companies in Eastern Europe. From my home country, Møre and Romsdal, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Labour have received the same signals in a letter from the major economic operators in the maritime sector – they want new rules for leave. They refer to the same argument as in Rogaland. The clear message of business shows that the hourglass to the government with its waiting-and-see attitude is about to run out. So what is going on with policy action? We need strengthened tripartite cooperation. So far the government has played the ball over to the industry and asked the industry even to clean up and ensure lower costs. In order to speed up the work, the authorities have to impose requirements on the processes and clear reporting requirements for the results achieved. We need to stimulate the level of activity through countercyclical measures for a demanding time. Activities need to be maintained by ensuring licensing activity, incentivising, inter alia. increased exploration, field development and further extraction of existing wells. It is important that the authorities also look at how they can actively contribute to a lower cost level on Norwegian soil. The ceiling in the net pay arrangements for offshore ships should be further assessed. In this context, it may also be tempting to ask the Council of State where it is due to the legalisation of the net pay scheme. Developments and changes are now in the direction of an increasing number of alternative energy sources exploiting offshore sources, such as: offshore wind farms. However, some ships may not undertake installation tasks if it is not within the Norwegian shipping tax system. A change here may be a contribution to migration and green shipping. Things take a long time with this government. For where does the follow-up to the maritime strategy lead to? Where's the industry message going? Where will it be from the bioeconomy strategy, the tourism message and the forest announcement? Where do the major simplification measures go? So far is much of what the government calls simplifications, deregulations and the winding-up of support schemes. What does the government do with ferry offers to contribute to more environmentally friendly ferries? Where does the Condemnation Scheme go? My question is: what is the Minister of Industry actually going to do about immediate action against industry along the coast, and what are the offensive measures for green migration in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e152	Thank you very much for your interpellation on a very important topic. This is the way in which much has changed in the last few years in the Norwegian economy, as the interpellant also pointed out. We are in a difficult situation, with an oil price that has gone from over 100 dollars to the summer of 2014 at today's price of about 30 dollars. The level of activity in the oil industry has fallen significantly both internationally and on Norwegian soil. More than 100 offshore ships are now in operation. Oil companies need to reduce costs to maintain the profitability of existing oil and gas fields and to contribute to ensuring the profitability of future expansions. This is also putting pressure on the supplier industry. This trend has led to a relatively short increase in unemployment in South-West countries from among the lowest in the country to among the highest. The situation is very difficult both for companies that are hit, and for those people who are now losing their jobs. It's a development that worries, and we're taking it seriously. Of course, for those affected by the downpour — and especially for those who lose their jobs — this is very dramatic. You're used to being in demand, and all of a sudden it stops. It affects businesses, it affects individuals, it affects families. At the same time, it is important to remember that we have a strong and innovative business life, with very competent workers. It is a good foundation for creating new jobs both in existing companies and in new ones. The government attaches great importance to having close contact with the business community and relevant knowledge environments on economic developments and on challenges and opportunities in all parts of the business world. We follow the situation closely. I have met many of those who are affected, in many parts of the country. The situation is complex and varies considerably across industries and enterprises. In several industries, the gap increases competitiveness and opportunities. In companies that have the petroleum sector as their main market, we experience downhaulings and lay-offs, but also the conversion and development of new industrial activities. If we are to ensure future value creation and high welfare, Norwegian business must have good competitiveness. Our primary task, therefore, is to ensure that Norway retains its capacity for innovation and transformation in the future. It will secure jobs, facilitate increased competitiveness and new businesses and provide the necessary basis for the welfare society we want. The government has taken an offensive approach to the situation: Last May we presented a maritime strategy to ensure Norwegian maritime nutrition and Norwegian seafarers in the coming years. In June we amended the permit rules. In August we presented a package related to youth leave, and we introduced Innovation Norway 100 million. in the south and west because the funds were in the process of being used up. And in October we presented Norway's first founding plan, with over 400 million. kr for extra bet on entrepreneurs this year. The state budget for 2016 is a government budget for work, activity and conversion, and it builds up below the main lines we laid the foundation for business when we joined the government more than two years ago. A responsible economic policy works together with monetary policy in order to guarantee Norwegian business a fundamental competitiveness. Within a responsible fiscal framework, the government has prioritised measures on the government budget which increase activity in the short term but which have a main focus on future jobs. The government has therefore given priority to knowledge and industrial research, tax relief to businesses and workers, and faster road and rail development. In the many meetings I have with companies and local authorities around Norway, I get feedback that these efforts are important and correct. That's good. Then we've presented a These measures are particularly targeted at those parts of the country where the unemployment rate has increased. We make a special boost for the shipyards and equipment suppliers by increasing funds for the maintenance, upgrade and construction of ships. We are establishing a new grant scheme for the confederation of old ships, and we are strengthening the innovation loan scheme in Innovation Norway. As an example of the fact that we are looking for both large and small contributions to facilitate the situation, I can also mention that offshore shipping companies with ships in storage have now received an offer to apply for an exemption from the annual fee, so that they are no longer charged this fee when the boat is in storage. It's not a large amount, but it's important contributions at a time when each crown counts. Last May we presented an offensive maritime strategy with 69 measures to ensure a continued competitive maritime industry and Norwegian seafarers in the coming years. Let me mention some of the main features: In 2016, we strengthen the subsidy scheme for seafarers by over 100 million. kr. This improves the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers in NOR and increases employment opportunities for Norwegian seafarers also on vessels in NIS. So the total we're estimating is going to be 1.9 billion. kr. The vessel range limitations in NIS are to be changed in order to remain a major maritime nation in the future, with a significant Norwegian fleet. It is important to ensure jobs and our maritime competence. And there is now notification of flagging as a result of this. We stimulate green growth for Norwegian maritime industry, with increased use of eco-technological solutions and more environmentally friendly marine fuel. There will be a competitive advantage as and when international action is taken to reduce emissions. We are increasing the investment in education and skills through a doubling of the funds for the MARKOM2020 cooperation project and also providing EUR 15 million. to modernise equipment and teaching materials for maritime education. This will help to ensure the introduction of new, relevant competences. We also need to stimulate interaction between maritime industries, marine food and oil and gas industries, among other things. through several joint calls for research programmes for marine food, maritime and oil and gas in the Research Council. Permits have increased a lot in the last year — from a low level to a serious one. Further growth is expected as a result of uncertain demand situations in many industries. In the light of developments in the labour market, the Government implemented amendments to the legislation on leavement with effect from July 2015. The period of leave was increased from 26 to 30 weeks and the employer’s period was reduced from 20 to 10 days. The aim was to contribute to increasing flexibility in the management of the situation for the enterprises concerned. Permits are an instrument that enables employers to maintain labour during periods of temporary low activity. Significant parts of the oil-related part of the economy are now adapting to a situation of lower activity. For many companies, it will involve permanent restrictions. In such situations, permitations are not necessarily the most appropriate instrument. It can help to link labour to a particular enterprise and to slow down the necessary changes, as well as that the person on leave does not use this period for active job search. The permitting scheme does not in itself create new jobs. It invests in research, innovation, transport and tax relief. Therefore, in the assessment of the law on permitting, we need to weigh these considerations against each other. I can assure you that the government is making ongoing assessments of the rules, on the basis of how the labour market situation develops and in dialogue with the parties. In the 2016 state budget, the government continues and strengthens the action effort of the revised national budget for 2015 and proposes 4 000 new action sites this year. The proposal will also provide room for increased use of the enterprise-internal training measure, BIO, in regions with high unemployment and with high business conversion needs. The government also proposes changes to the rules, so that those who start their own business can continue with daily allowance training that has already begun, and we extend the daily allowance period for those who start their own business from nine to twelve months. The government believes that the petroleum sector will continue to be a significant contributor to the Norwegian economy and many jobs in the future. The cost-efficiency improvement that we now see among enterprises shows good adaptability. The government will pursue a stable and predictable policy that continues to make Norwegian cap an attractive place for petroleum activities. On the part of the government, we are also betting on industry. We're going to present a big message, as announced, about the industry's framework conditions. It shall address central, selected themes for the competitiveness of Norwegian industry in the long term. The notification is planned to be submitted at the next turn of the year and will form the basis for government policy in the field ahead. Until then, of course, we will follow the situation closely, and we will take action if there are grounds for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e232	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is positive that the government has listened to the needs of the permitting legislation, and as very many demand actions along the coast, but I think that the argument about binding an employee, that it's kind of a challenge to permitting legislation, is an unprofessional argument. Because it's not that people want to go on leave, and neither is it that companies want to permite employees if they can keep them in work, but it's positive that you bet on company training, and that you do more about it now, because that's exactly what you need to get to a conversion. Then the word 'conversion' begins to be very clear. But conversion is nothing new, it's something our business has been doing in all those years, and the dynamics we have in the Norwegian model are amazing, because workers feel safe, they're with and develop new things, come with ideas and dare to join in and find opportunities and solve difficult situations all the time. But what I also want is more tripartite cooperation, where the business community and the social partners are getting involved with the government, and finding the right solutions together. Then I think the questions I had about maritime strategy – all those points, that is how far you have come, and how to deliver from them – are important to answer. So the industry message will come later, but maybe there's a need to make something right now. When we were in government, we brought a big message about conversion that was called Mangfold of winners, which was put in the drawer. Maybe you should bring it up again. The bioeconomy strategy is waiting. There is an incredibly important effort in the situation we are in now – the same with the travel news. The forest industry is asking for action from the government over and over again, so it is also ready to take action there. So I guess I want to get a little bit more overview of what more we can expect during this spring from the Council of State. The Permitting Code is not the Minister of Industry's table, but it is, after all, incredibly important, because it is linked, and it is important how to get involved in government. But what are we going to expect to see of changes this spring from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e243	First, about tripartite cooperation. I feel that we have good tripartite cooperation in Norway, and that helps us, especially in a situation that is now. We had last week's contact meeting between the government and the social partners, and I feel that we are looking at the situation in which we are, as well as measures, although there is some disagreement about the length of the permitting legislation. The challenge is when I travel around and meet companies, meet organisations and meet employees, and most recently last week, when I was in More and Romesdal, I was handed over a letter wishing to extend the permit code. When I then asked the same companies: If you are ready in 52 weeks – if you are ready to take back the employees – I am not getting the answer yes. I have received that from a single company, and I can promise the representative that I have met many. It's just one company that said, "Yes, we think so." No one else has answered that. It makes this not very simple, because what we know about the permit is that they're passive, they're waiting to get back to work. That is one of the points of the legislation. It's good when we know that they're going back, and when we know something about the length. But what we know about this situation is that it's different, it's not comparable to the historical numbers we have on the perimeter. We know that something is permanent restrictions. Most companies say, "We don't know if this takes a year or two years, but we're going to get through it." That's the answer we get. Then I can promise that, as I said, we will assess this on an ongoing basis, and of course we will listen to the social partners. I am now working to implement all the measures that were announced in the maritime notice. There's no solitude. As the representative is sure to know, we are totally dependent on having our legislation notified in ESA. It's a process that's at work, it's a work we started long before the government budget was actually adopted, in good hope that it was adopted, and we're now working closely on ESA to get this in place. But it's demanding, and we can't just do this right now. The condensation system is announced in these days so that we can put it in place. So it's working on a bio-economic strategy. It comes in the spring, working well between several departments. The industrial notification was due to arrive at the end of the year – it will come at the end of the year. So we're now working in more fields. As far as travel life announcements are concerned, it is true that I was prepared to send it to Stortinget in a short time, in the spring part, but the parties in the business wanted a separate investigation on the marketing system and the organisation of it, and then we announced a job to get it done. So we do that in good cooperation with travel life itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e254	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting an important issue on the agenda. The situation in the South West is very demanding, and the unemployment rate in the South, from which I come, has risen by over 20 p.m. the last year. East Agder has the second highest unemployment rate in the country. Not many of the notified cancellations have yet entered into force, and at the latest yesterday 160 new ones were notified. There is therefore a strong need for a political leader to be active and to demonstrate the effectiveness of action to improve the situation. The government cannot be charged for the oil price drop, which the Council of State had in mind, but it is responsible for dealing with the unemployment situation. I have to admit that I am a little tired of saying that words like ‘we are following the situation carefully’ are a repetition. Instead of taking the word ‘unemployment’ in their mouths, they say ‘conversion’. Actually, it's not the same thing. Conversion is also not something the government has suddenly invented, but something that Norwegian companies operate with continuously. The government has invested the large amount of money in a cut in the wealth tax – although the government’s own experts are unable to demonstrate the significant growth power of this. The employer's option is to spend the money much more specifically, and in the treatment of the 2016 budget, we could therefore make many proposals with meaning for the South. Fortunately, Mechatronics Innovation Lab and seed for Agder and Telemark were included in the budget agreement, but we also had proposals for the extension of the permit law, for an accelerator programme for entrepreneurs where one in five funds were to be added to South Africa, for an increase in apprenticeship grants of 12 500 kroner in addition to government proposals, for 3,000 more places of study and 2 000 more places of action, 3 billion. kr to the municipalities, increase in the Enova fund and up to 1 billion. kr to eco-innovation. It will have meaning for our territory. Southern industrial enterprises have received more than one third of the allocations of the national environmental technology scheme, so it is important for us. Something that would also have benefited our offshore business was whether the government had been willing to press to study wells in the North Sea. The extension of the permit regime to 52 weeks was the interpellant. ‘Let us hope’, as we say in the South, that the government takes the sense and realizes that this is important. And although entrepreneurs and start-ups are important, we have to remember that most innovations take place within established companies, clusters and industrial environments. The top boss Walter Qvam in Kongsberg The group gave a big interview on this before Christmas, where he also received support from other top managers. The message was clear: ‘It is paradoxical that government instruments go almost exclusively to start-up businesses, while there is very little focus on all the hundreds of medium-sized enterprises with sales from 20 to 3 million kroner. It is these companies that are to become the new tribe of Norwegian industry.» These include: Here, the legislation on permitting comes in as one of several elements. It's not lucrative to go on leave. You do not lose motivation and have to apply to other companies, because jobs are not in line, and as long as companies can permit rather than resign, they retain valuable skills. Another factor that has emerged in the South is the daily allowance under education. Although it is not directly within this Council of State, I know that she is orientated, and I understand that the government is working to look at the change in the regulation. I hope that the government here shows the power of action. The NODE leader has addressed this in a letter to the department. She emphasises that for their member companies, it has a negative impact on those who want to enter the new pre-incubator and lose their daily allowance in the first three months, which is very discouraging. I have challenged the business community, along with the political South, to come up with a comprehensive, priority package for South Africa based on the situation we are in. I hope that the Council of State will take this seriously by taking concrete action. Yesterday there was also a downturn for those who are unemployed in the Lista region, because the government did not accept a concession on the Syra ground. Here, there was optimism in Farsund about getting into a green industry with hundreds of jobs. It also means that this is not possible – when the concession does not come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e278	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this important debate. The developments we see in the West are dramatic. Daily we read about large and small enterprises that have to convert their business into more pressing times of lower activity. We read about offshore boats inside, about employers who, together with their employees, lower wages in order to keep jobs, about employees on leave or who, in the utmost consequence, have to be cancelled. SYSLA wrote yesterday that the largest companies on the Norwegian base have lost almost 5,000 billion. kr due to the fall in the oil price globally. It says something about the size of the migration Norway is in, worldwide. Of course, for the Norwegian economy, the fall in oil prices has ring-fenced the whole community. Many lose their jobs, and the whole of the West notices the narrow labour market situation. High-ranking applicants are reported to the published jobs. A productive and well-functioning business life is absolutely necessary if we are to be able to bear the welfare state. Norway’s oil money cannot last forever, and in the years to come it may also be more urgent for the state. This year's expansive budget is necessary, but it cannot go on forever. And for us sitting in the West, it was interesting to hear about the lack of interest from the Workers' Party and from the Stortinget opposition in Stortinget's Question Time when oil and energy minister Tord Lien was present. The only solution to the increasing unemployment seems to be to allow people to go further on leave. The right has gone in to extend the permit to 30 weeks, so this is going to increase the Workers' Party to 52. The question is whether it is so clever to go for a long time that the permit can be an obstacle to necessary conversion. We know that passive benefits across the board can make it more difficult for individuals to get back to work. On the company visits that we in the Right are on, it's clear what the business community is asking for public in these tight and difficult times, and it's the long-term grips that make Norwegian business competitive. They demand a sensible tax policy that does not penalise Norwegian owners, a commitment to knowledge, research and development, and not least a better infrastructure. These are things that the government delivers to. The examples from the West could be many, but what is done at E39, E16, over 100 million. This is part of additional appropriations for the University of Bergen, the College and other educational institutions, for various buildings and important research projects. And further reduced taxes on wealth are still high on the wish lists of our businesses. At the same time, exceptional measures are needed. This is why much more employment has been created in this year’s government budget, which has been covered by several countries, and it sums up to about a quarter of the total. 4 B.C.E. kr directed towards those parts of the country that need it the most. It is a massive refurbishment and maintenance project – within everything from cultural buildings to prisons, health buildings and universities, and within industry and innovation, establishing grants, the eco-innovation scheme, pressure seed funds, user-driven innovation, are being increased to mention something. The working party’s instrument for increasing unemployment seems to be to allow people to go further on leave — not to help them reduce the tax burden in their alternative state budget either. I don't think that's a future-oriented business policy. It is the commitment to good infrastructure, research and business tax havens that ensure tomorrow's jobs throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e299	First of all, thank you to the interpellant. I think the interpellant addresses many important issues in this interpellation. Also, thank you to the Council of State, which responds to many of the challenges raised. I want to go into a number of areas that are being addressed, but I am not going to go into the trap of the representative of the Workers' Party, who concentrated on the Lista region and the South-West. This is a crisis that currently affects the whole of Western Norway, not just individual areas. We now see problems that primarily go from the Agder states in the south up to the Trendelag in the north, but also start to reproduce a little further northwards. At the same time, we also see that part of the inland region has a different type of development, where there is actually a demand for labour, there is a growth in the labour market. But that's another thing. I took a trip to the sea on Friday to fish a little. What I experience when I come out on the fjord and look around is that there are supply boats in different categories, sizes and price classes in circulation throughout the fjord. I think it can do along the entire West Coast as we go south. There are over a hundred vessels in storage. The situation of these vessels is not merely resolved by amending the rules of the permit. This is a consequence of a lower oil price. This makes our oil fields less profitable. There will be less activity on the Norwegian base. The government has taken a number of measures in this respect specifically linked to the issue of shipping. A maritime strategy has been adopted, which was presented last May. In addition – and this government has done so – it has increased, among other things. the ceiling within the net pay scheme, although it is not a net pay scheme, only a reimbursement scheme, as we have a limitation in it. The previous government didn't do anything with this piece. The roof stood on site resting since the introduction of the scheme and until the government left. It was this government that was the first to improve the scheme. In addition, as I said, you've come up with the maritime strategy you're working on for things to happen in the right order. So I also think very many people have to take over that the contracting of ships that have happened in the offshore sector, you have to consider. It's obvious that within some fields it might look like there's an overcapacity, and then you have to look at what it's going to look like. What is important is that the measures taken are put in the right order and at the right time. We need to know what actions actually work, to meet the situation that we're in. The government has presented a package of measures in the budget. A number of measures relating to the maintenance of buildings, related to investments in the transport sector and to the use of BIO funds, i.e. in-house training, have been put in place to provide training, including those who come into the situation of being both licensed and in need of company conversion. It is important that the government also has a high level of activity in the allocation of new search blocks. Yes, the government has – a record award last round. And then what happens? Well, one of the former partners of the Workers' Party in the Red-Green Government believes that too many blocks are allocated, we have to stop looking, because the oil should be in the ground. It's important that the signals we give are also of such a nature that they can lead to increased growth. We know that Johan Sverdrup will be active next year, on the investment side. We looked at the news as late as yesterday that in Haugesund Aibel, I think it was, to take back employees who are on leave, because they're going to start working with the chassis and covered with Johan Sverdrup. We know there's activity on the socket. Therefore, it is also important that the measures that we are introducing catch up with the changes that are taking place out there. I'm not saying you're not going to do anything about the permitting rules. I know that the government is working on that piece every day to know that the measures you are taking are correct. But it doesn't have to be that every time we see that there are problems out there, the rules of leave are the answer. No, here are a number of other different measures. The representative Else-May Botten also stated that most jobs are created in already existing enterprises. That is precisely why the government has strengthened the tax FUNN scheme. In the budgets made by this government, the tax FUNN scheme has been stepped up, because new growth and new power are to be created in the already existing businesses. That's the innovation that we have to put in place. The government is working intensively on these issues and will come up with good solutions. But we have to have the right solutions at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e329	First, I would also like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant and many good articles that address important issues at the time we are in. I want to start by quoting a good book: «Featuring is the root of all evil.» Being able to have a job to go to is important to us people, so to start off by going all the way down on the individual level, I would say that the job we can do to secure people's work is one of the most important things we do as politicians. But there is – as many people have been – a complex situation. It is composed of large geographical differences. There are representatives here from counties who experience a decline in unemployment, and there are other representatives here who are from counties who experience a large increase in unemployment. The same is true between different industries: some do well now, while others are in bad weather. In summary, this is a very serious situation. There has been considerable unemployment, particularly in the Agder counties and in the West. It means that there are many people in a desperate situation. But the whole chain – especially within oil and gas – is in a challenging situation. One looks at operators, suppliers and shipping companies that cancel out, and that permits a lot of people. When one in addition sees feedback that 2016 is going to be worse than 2015, it is important that a person keeps up a lot of pressure to make sure that we are able to reverse the trend and get more people back to work. I also see that the GDP growth for 2015 was just 1 pst. It shows that if 2016 is expected to get worse, we need to take action. I also think it is important to clarify that there is another type of challenge we have now, compared to what we had with the financial crisis. We're parties here that don't necessarily want us all the way back to the pressure we had on investments in oil and gas. Yes, we still want to have it as a very important and great nutrition, but it's not necessarily so that we're going back to the same level. Then it's right to think about other industries, because what we've learned from the situation we've had is that we were too vulnerable because we had too much on one leg -- now we need more legs to stand on. I'm sure we're also going to have bigger debates – based on the geographical availability that we have – related to questions about people having to move. It is demanding for the individuals who have to do so, but when there is demand for labour in certain regions, we will meet that challenge. I would like to refer to the important actions in the maritime sector, with which the Council of State summarised – they are important. But there's also a grip that can be done with things that we know must happen. Several have been involved in tail production in existing fields. We have to make better use of the fields. It is also good environmental policy. We have to make sure that the wells are studying, that's what we're going to do, and we can do it with and with pressure, so that it can happen faster. Maintenance in existing installations also needs to be done, and in this context, it may take advantage of the current decline, both to make it cheaper and to ensure jobs. It is essential to stimulate the creation of new enterprises and new jobs in new industries. And I believe that what is done on the founder's side, and what is about stimulating the new growth, is one of the most important things we can do. It is also important what has been done in the State budget: the 4 billion measure package. kr. It is an important counter-cyclical measure that an incentive for maintenance and investment, but not least the longer term, which is about school, research and development, will be important in the longer term. The next big milestone has been revised, and in the Christian People's Party we've discussed the situation at every single group meeting, I think, and at other meetings you're at, and it's especially in the regions that we travel in, and that's the hardest hit, that people are very concerned about the situation, so we're prepared to do something before the revision. I hear that the big question being raised is the law of permitation, and I agree with the argument that the Council of State is making, that we are constantly going to analyse the situation, and that it might be right to do some grip. In the South – as I represent – there was a permitation versus termination, and most of them are cancelled, they are not permitted, because one does not see, as the Council of State says, that in a year or a half of a year, one will need the same type of labour in time. In fact, it's important to think that some of those people are in a situation where they need skills-enhancing measures, and that someone rather spends the money on it rather than going out on leave. I would also like to say that we are involved in an important work in the field of tax reform, and it must lead to the creation of jobs and investment in work. We must continue with the regional measures. Mechatronics Innovation Lab, Seed Fund and other types of regional action have been mentioned. There's something we can do to create growth in the regions that need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e361	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic. I think it's important that we have a common sense of reality of what's happening now. There is a very serious situation in the South and too large parts of the West, but there is also a very serious situation for the country. It is naive to think that the decline experienced in oil and gas will not also have major ring-effects in the rest of the country. In such a situation, perhaps my main concern is that the government and the representatives of the government parties are so satisfied with their own efforts. I miss a greater degree of humility and a greater self after doing more, rather than imagining what you've done. As regards the legislation on permitting, the Centre Party agreed with the Government in the submission of the State budget and did not support an extension of the law on permitting. But we've met so many companies that say they're now delivering oil and gas, they see that they have to turn around, they have to turn around and deliver in defense, in space, in renewable energy. Then they need some time to turn around. But if the employees, their top skills, disappear in the meantime, they're no longer competitive, once they've turned around. Therefore, the Centre Party is also in favour of extending the Permitting Code. As far as the package of measures is concerned, there is a strange case to follow. On the part of the Centre Party, we have been concerned to find out what is in this package of measures. What's in it? What are the projects in it? And although the situation is different now compared to what it was during the financial crisis, the reason for telling business what projects are in the action package is not, of course, any less. We don't see any trace of the bets within the transportation that are being presented into this. It is still being discussed that the municipalities have received funds for investment. But the funds that started as half a billion, were zero during the budgetary process. And zero money for municipalities gives zero new employees to carry out the work. Can't the government give us an answer: what's in these four billion that we hear about every single day? And I think the government is cheating, because one is adding projects that are completely ordinary projects, and setting them up to get the amount of four billion. It should end with that. I am also concerned that I have not received a clear answer about Rogaland, which is one of the most severely affected states, will be at risk of a decline in the institutional grant in the current year. I have received vague promises from the Council of State on written questions. I have not been given any guarantee that this will not happen. In other areas, we see that the government parties and the majority parties are introducing measures that are sending people out into unemployment. The airline seat fee, 1000 employees in Eastfold: the government does not lift a finger. They have got an emergency brake from Stortinget to reverse that charge. They don't choose to do that. One sits still and sees that 1,000 employees in Eastfold lose their jobs. The consequences in the rest of the country we don't know. But this has become a fee that has a weak environmental profile. It has major employment consequences. The Competition Authority has now said that it is anticompetitive, to the detriment of, among other things, Norwegian. Now the government has to wake up and at least not take measures that make it worse for business in Norway. It has also been mentioned in the debate here that the opposition did not ask the Council of State Lien in the Questionnaire. I sent questions to Councillor Lien and asked what he would say if he had been here. It was a long answer, but he would – summed up – lead a stable and predictable petroleum policy. Yes, I fully agree with Councillor Lien that this is important, but one must expect that he, as Councillor of State for the industry that labors the most, comes with extra measures. Actions on E39 in the West and South have been mentioned here. What we've heard about lately are delays. It has been shown that the road company has not received the money. They have got the money to plan a road, but they have not got the money to build a road. That's going to be a little bit of employment. My advice to the government is to be a little more offensive and a little less satisfied with your own efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e378	We were told by the Council of State that we are in a complex and complex situation. I ask myself, is it so very complicated, and how complex is it really? The core of what is happening now is a violent downturn in the oil and gas industry, our largest industry measured in both turnover and employment – up to 250,000. Is this something new? No, no, no. This is a cyclical industry, an industry where prices go up and down, and the activity then. We had a real downturn in 1993. We had an active government, based on the Workers' Party. We started work on the NORSOK standard, in response to the situation in the sector. We had a new descent in 1997, and we had an active government, dating from the Workers' Party. We started work, got started and started to set up INTSOK, which internationalised the Norwegian supplier industry and created new markets, new jobs, new activities. We had a new descent in 2001. A labor party government started working with the parties, and we were set up KonKraft, which was a collaboration of the parties to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian oil and gas industries. These were important measures; they were good measures; they were measures that worked, initiated by a government that saw its place in this and took the initiative. What we have now is an artificially low level of oil price. Everyone knows we're going to get a rise, so Nesvik is absolutely right when he says we're going to get a new activity. That's exactly what's at the heart of why the Workers' Party is so confused about the lack of activity of the government. For what is now happening in the oil and gas industries and the supplier industry, is that we are downsizing to deal with today's situation too because there is no incentive or incentive to prepare for what will be tomorrow's situation. What we can experience then is a new round of cost increases because the capacity has become so low over time. This is a situation that calls for collective reason. The fact that the individual enterprise is downsizing, it must not surprise anyone. Then it's a political task to think about the best of society in the future and then take action. The transformations that we as a society are also going to undergo at this time are important to address. This is nothing new, this is something that happens all the time. We know that the prerequisites for a successful transition at a social level are that we have good tripartite cooperation, that we have safe employees who are involved in the transition, and that we have a fair distribution of the burden. The solidarity option in the 1990s is an excellent example of a transition that brought us back to competitiveness and made sure that we got people back to work. It was a demanding case for the country's workers, but you were there because you saw it was a fair distribution. What we see today is that we have a government that does not initiate tripartite cooperation and that does not use tripartite cooperation for what it can be used for in this conversion. We see a labour policy that undermines safe jobs and undermines the ability and willingness of workers to participate in change. With an ever-increasing number of temporary jobs in enterprises, what incentive do you have to participate in demanding changes when you know that the job you have now is just a few weeks ahead? This is an undermining of security. We see that where the government has really invested, it is in transferring money to the richest through tax cuts. What the government calls conversion seems more to me to be a gigantic project for redistribution: redistribution of power in society, redistribution of large incomes. What we need now is active and offensive action. It's not right, as Spruceland says, that we're just talking about permitting legislation. We have talked about a number of measures both in different settings, in the Storting and in our budget. This crisis affects individuals, it affects businesses, and it affects society. That's why the government has to grab hold of it. The right place for the government in such a situation is not to sit on the stands and follow the situation closely. The government must be on the job and do its job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e396	Previously, the situation in the private sector did not speak in one word, related to the fact that there are, in fact, 1.7 million workers carrying the public sector, which is half that large – a consequence of the policy pursued by the previous government. This government cannot be charged because the oil price has fallen to $30 barrel, but this government takes the situation related to unemployment as a consequence of this in the deepest seriousness. The previous government, the representative’s red-green government, can be reproached for having pursued a policy that has weakened competitiveness, which has weakened the private sector, which in total has led to Norway’s having a further two-part economy, which has reinforced the problems we are facing today – something that the previous government should have been far enough foresaw to have done. I think I have to remind you of what Tage Erlander, prime minister of Sweden from the Workers' Party's sister party, in his time said: we can't decide out of the crisis, we have to work out of the crisis. This also applies in the situation in which the country has come up, related to falling oil prices. Combating unemployment is the government's task No. one that the government takes in the deepest seriousness. For this reason, a number of measures have been taken by the government, such as an action package of 4 billion. kr and 2,4 brd. kr for nutrient research. Last week I visited a company that was hit by the fall in the oil price. This company benefits from the tax FUNN scheme, which has been extended, and a falling oil price. The result is that this company is breaking through, among other things. in China with new products, such as submarine bridges, and honors government policy in this area. Research was eventually a voiced child in the red-green government. Even one of the government's own ministers said this was a break. This rest cutting is now turned into a seven-mile step, in fact, public research is now 32.5 billion. kr. In 2015, the government spent 400 million. on the table to stimulate business start-ups and start-ups, and recently the day-to-day payment system was also changed. The period for which you receive a daily allowance is extended from nine to twelve months, so that those who have lost their job, but at the same time work hard to start their own business, have a greater chance of success. This shows that in the short and long term the government is using the entire “toolbar” of which the previous government was unfortunately not so busy. Then the solution was to strengthen the public sector, cost what it would cost. That is why we have now received a two-part economy that makes the situation extra difficult, but the government can see both the Labour Party and the opinion in its eyes and say that it has taken a number of measures that will remedy the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e405	The representative of the Rivers has obviously been on a strategy course in the Right, for the strategy is to blame for the Workers' Party. We started this debate by hearing that Monica Meland was satisfied. I think it's an incredible statement when we see a vacancy of 4.6 pst. My parents both worked in the competitive industry. I remember with horror the mood that was around the dinner table at the time in the 1980s when the interest rate was sky high, the unemployment rate was high, the closure threat was over the industry and we had just bought a small farm. That's when I learned what the principle of seniority was, and what it meant to be permitted. Even though we were kids, I realized it was serious. They could lose their job. There were traces in a child's body. Fortunately, it is common to scratch at the store, I thought. That's the way families and kids actually sit today -- they're afraid of their jobs. I think the government does too little for them. It is not useful to talk about mobility in the labour market when there is a possible lack of basic vocational training. In that case, an enterprise-internal training must be started. It is not useful to talk about Norway having to change when successful enterprises do not have the chance to do so because they are forced to cancel their main resource, namely labour, because of the rules of leave. There's an impression here that permitting rules allow people to be locked in. But what we know is that eight out of ten of those who are licensed come back to work in the same company from which they were licensed, so what is said here is not true. It's stupid for the individual, it's stupid for the company, and it's very bad for society not to increase the flexibility of the regulation. Then, of course, there is no growing unemployment only in the West. Although the coast is, of course, the hardest hit, I also see from my everyday life in Subsea Valley, Kongsberg, that the decline, dismissals, reduction of rents and permits also happen with us. What we need, then, is a state of decline, which retains its ownership of large enterprises such as the Kongsberg Group, which provides risk capital for long-term industrial programmes, which strengthens and not cuts in the research and development resources and capabilities of the defence industry, and which provides for the Norwegian defence industry when the major European countries protect their markets – as some examples. Then youth must be turned in the door of Nav. I've been working with young people in social work. Most are not there because they are late, but because the systems and society have failed. It makes no sense how today we send students with the worst grades around in that system government – the Right Party and the Advance Party – love to call ‘free school choice’. Freedom from whom? Because while they with the best grades can choose and run and get into their secondary school, they end up with the worst grades as a parcel post. They come into a school, but have no right to complete their three years there. That's why we're sending the weakest to another school the next year. It is not nice that the motivation is lacking. Many end up as losers in the fight for apprenticeships, and too many end up at Nav. We can't have it like that. Instead of giving up the Youth Guarantee, as the government has announced, we need to look at what is going on for it to work. Who's going to have help if it's not the youngest? In Buskerud, the Workers' Party is now trying to introduce a right to attend the secondary school. It's a very exciting thought. But we have to do more. We need to have closer follow-up of youth, we need to increase the apprenticeship grant, and state and local authorities need to be required as employers to take in apprentices. In today's transition situation, we need education even more than before. Of course, higher education is part of this. But what we do know is that those who have the biggest problems in their downtimes are those who lack a letter, or those who need to fill in their skills at the college level. If we are to succeed in the industry of the future, we must increase our skills and increase productivity. The competence of skilled workers must then be increased, and this is where the vocational schools are so important. The report ‘Computerization and the Future of Jobs in Norway’ shows that many people will become redundant and lose their jobs if their skills do not evolve according to future needs. And now, first and foremost, the need is to develop skills in the existing workforce in the crisis we are in, and to ensure the ability to adapt through an active state and secure measures. Monica Meland said the government's policy is working. When Jens Stoltenberg left as Prime Minister, the unemployment rate was 3.6 p.m., now it is 4.6 p.m. In May 2015, Siv Jensen said that she wanted leave from 4.1 pst. to 4 pst. If these are examples of politics working, I have to say that the description is very, very strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e428	I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important topic on the agenda. Some parts of the country now experience a difficult and serious situation. Much has changed in the Norwegian economy in the last two years. From the fact that we had an oil price of well over $100 barrel in the summer of 2014, we now have, a year and a half after, an oil price of about $30 barrel. We've lived well on oil revenues for many years. The oil sector needs a lot of labour, and people have migrated from all over the country to oil industries and offshore activities in the West. Rogaland and the Agder counties have had the lowest unemployment rates, but now they feel to have the highest, and it's clear that it feels dramatic. You're used to being in demand, and all of a sudden it stops. It affects businesses, it affects individuals, and it affects families. The Solberg government has from the day one been committed to taking action to improve our ability to adapt. The Norwegian economy has become too oil dependent over several years. That's why the government, since the accession, has made progress to ensure that we have more legs to stand on. In fact, the Prime Minister in 2014 said that we had to change, and that the oil activity would not be the engine it has been for the last years of economic growth in the future. We now see how right she was. Norwegian oil and gas industries will continue to be important for the Norwegian economy and create many good and safe jobs for many years to come, but we have realized that we need more legs to stand on. It is therefore important to strengthen competitiveness and adaptability. New jobs must come in the private sector. Therefore, the government is committed to stimulating growth in private competitive industries. We need new profitable businesses that can contribute enough tax revenue to finance our well-being, and it must pay off better to work, save and invest. The interpellant asks what is done to bring down the record unemployment in the short and long term. It is strange that the interpellant has not noticed all the measures taken. The government has an offensive approach to the situation both in the short and long term. There are several examples mentioned, and I can mention again: last May a maritime strategy was put forward to ensure Norwegian maritime nutrition and Norwegian seafarers in the years to come – several ships flags are now at home. In June, the system of leave was extended and the period of employment was reduced. In August, a package related to youth leave was presented. Innovation Norway received 100 million. extra kr to the south and west. The 2016 budget presented a short-term action package for increased employment of 4 billion. kr, targeted in particular at the areas marking the consequences of lower growth. I just want to remind you that the Workers' Party proposed an action package of 2.5 billion. kr, which may indicate that they may have underestimated the serious situation we are now seeing. The four-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr shall be used for job measures that can be started quickly, including: for increased maintenance of buildings, installations and road projects. Increased use of in-house training, as some mentioned here, has also been increased, from 13 to 26 weeks. Of the longer-term measures, the government has ever provided the largest research budget, measured in terms of both the number of dollars and the share of GDP. The State budget for 2016 authorises nearly 2.4 billion. kr more for industrial research and innovation than in 2013. There is a high demand from industry for support for demanding R & D projects, particularly in the South and Western countries, and most clearly in Rogaland. The rest of the research effort that the red-green government put in is now over. We have had to pay dearly for that rest cut, because if we had done more ten years ago, we could have ‘caset’ in results today if there had been anything more to bet on research. Fortunately, there are also points of light in the labour market situation. This crisis is different from the financial crisis. In large parts of the country, it's actually going very well. But it is demanding in some industries and especially in those parts of the country where there is now a need for change. Many of those who have lost their jobs may not get a job in the oil sector again, but they have to change to something else. Maybe someone has to move or commute, as others have done to the West in the past, to places in the country where there is a job to get. But we've changed before in this country, and we can change again, and we actually have resources and the skills to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e443	Thanks to the interpellant for bringing up an important question. All changes in the labour market are serious for those affected. The important thing for those affected is that there are efforts to find new labour markets quickly. Therefore, it is very disappointing that the government is as absent as it is on the short-term measures. Then I think of the measures that were notified to the municipal sector in the autumn, but were cut off in the budget negotiations – visible measures that could be implemented quickly and given a short and long-term impact on both employment and development in the municipalities. But here the government chooses to be invisible. With regard to the permit regulation, I am surprised that the government has so little confidence in the industry's own ability to assess its portfolio, its capabilities and its mission volume in a long-term perspective. In our view, businesses themselves are the best way to assess whether leave or dismissals are the best way to meet the challenges. When the industry itself says that the regulations we have today help to create problems for them in order to solve future tasks and work forward-looking, I have confidence that this is right. In such a perspective, state override, as this is argued by the government, becomes very strange. SV has already promoted a number of measures in the revised national budget last year that would help meet the challenges we are now facing. The government's waiting-and-see-and-follow-tight attitude has, in our view, been a symbol of casualty rather than action, and the result we see now. The government itself has agreed to sign an ambitious agreement in Paris on behalf of the world, an agreement that brings some expectations into the government premises. The climate agreement imposes great demands on the Norwegian industry and policy in the future, and the Minister of Industry has a great job to do in ensuring that Norway invests in the industries that are forward-looking, in the image of the climate agreement. It is high time that the government got on the road with measures that, on a lasting basis, turn public instruments, means of action and support mechanisms into the industries of the future. Environmental solutions and green energy deployment are, and will be, the major growth areas in the future, not only in Norway, but in a global perspective. The industry's own ideas about competence transfer programmes are examples of good ideas that should be followed up. So it is outright unwise for the government not to take a more offensive view of what is going to be the industries of the future, not just in Norway, but throughout the world. That's why it's good to look a little bit beyond our own boundaries to see what's going on. Germany has taken comprehensive decisions when, in addition to shutting down its nuclear power stations, it has also decided to phase out all CO2 polluting energy. This calls for offensive policies on new technology initiatives and puts German technology companies in a special position in the future with a view to investing in and developing green jobs and technologies across the world market. There is no reason why Norway should not be able to play a leading role in this area. We have the skills, we have a lot of good people who are imaginative, and we have the money to bet. But successful action requires policy-makers who are interested in development and who want Norway to play such a role. Therefore, the solution to today’s challenges is not about strengthening the foothold of the oil industry. On the other hand, it is important that we make Norway less dependent on oil, and that we as a nation should become the most important supplier of technology to the industries of the future. Today's situation gives us a golden opportunity to take that role if we want. The only question is whether the government is ready for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e459	The Greens are also pleased with this interpellation. It gives us an opportunity to discuss measures against the unemployment we now see, but also to discuss the situation in the context of the green shift, which most people agree that we should enter into. Fortunately, the SSB and others now report that coastal unemployment is likely to decrease during the year, but the government's task is also to tackle the availability of offshore oil-related jobs with measures that do not continue to make us so dependent on a sector that we have to phase out, with the climate goals we have set, and also to ensure the Norwegian economy more legs to stand on. No, the government does not decide the oil prices, but it is not possible to get under the chair that the Right and the Workers' Party's extensive, unilateral investment in oil has led Norway into a serious situation, which we now see manifesting itself in increased unemployment, especially in the South West. There's little sign to make sure that the government has let this sink in properly. Recent domestic growth is not a completely different issue, as Mr Nesvik of the Progress Party said earlier in the debate. The domestic industry has for a long time been struggling with the competitiveness of the shadow of a strong industry on the base, which has increased the level of pay and also prices in Norway. Coast and land must be seen in the context. So the state continues to invest 20 billion. kr in the oil industry each year in subsidies. It is not a good strategy to create sustainable jobs for the renewable society into which we are going. Before Christmas, just after the government negotiated ambitious climate targets in Paris, we were told that State power must withdraw completely from the seawind efforts. In the government budget, the government chose to draw dividends from the company, which was initially to be saved for investment. It is now at the expense of future green jobs and Norway's position in key innovation in renewable energy, which should be a natural part of the government's plan for a green shift. It is time to shift the main industrial policy instruments from oil to future green jobs. Many of those without jobs now are competent people from the oil industry, motivated to create new jobs and new industries with ideas and solutions that Norway needs. In Møre and Romsdal, the Ulstein Group is building a ship with a unique hull design to maintain marine wind installations in the Netherlands. It is hard to compete internationally for the construction of the best sea wind service ship, but Norwegian shipyards get into that competition because they know they can, and they know that these are the markets of the future. It is important that we then create good and stable framework conditions for those who dare to invest in future markets. In the alternative budget of the Greens for 2016, we proposed 8.5 billion. to promote new green business in areas where Norway has competence and natural advantage. The potential is great. We have Europe's largest sea and coastal areas, varied nature, well-functioning agriculture and large energy resources at sea and on land. The government’s view should now be focused on targeted measures to strengthen bio-industries and minimise the risk to new enterprises in the vulnerable start-up phase by providing risk capital. Here, the Greens have high expectations for the government's announcement of the industry's framework conditions. Economic operators should be entitled to apply minimum deductions in line with employees, to reduce employers’ fees for start-up enterprises and to strengthen the social security network for small enterprises. Not often enough can be mentioned: In 1970, the Stortinget adopted a concrete plan for the construction of a Norwegian oil sector. Now we need to put in place a similar plan to phase out oil and gas controlled and predictable, and to build up the next generation of green businesses in Norway. Action against unemployment, even in the short term, today, must be in line with this plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e476	I would like to thank all those who have participated in the discussion. It shows that there is a great deal of commitment around this, and many notice that it's tough thanks around. First, to the permitting code. A lot of people have discussed it, and everyone agrees that it's important. The government says no to 52 weeks because the companies can't know if the uphill trip is there after 52 weeks. It's pretty hard to answer in the situation we're up in right now, right now, the date, because when this is going to go over, but it would make more sense to have 52 weeks than 30 weeks when we know that this situation will last over time. Then to the maritime strategy. The government took a round of engagements with business last fall, after presenting the strategy that spring. Then the changes have happened very dramatically after that, and the measures have not really collapsed. There were 64 measures, but they have not been implemented, so the strategy has almost expired. What to do to sharpen it and adapt it to the current situation is important to get answers. So to the Haarek Rivers, which boasts, among other things. TAX FIND. That's exactly where we agree. I can also say that it was not the Right who invented the Treasure Fund. But there are a lot of people in this room who are for the TaxFUNN system, and who have been with it and strengthened it. We're very happy about that. Then I also think it is important to answer Mr. Haarek Elevenes, who says that the previous government was only concerned with strengthening the public sector, costing what it will cost. Firstly, I think everyone in Norway is happy that we have a good public sector that has good offers and services for people. But it has to be a certain direction in terms of the economic aspect. User-controlled health funding, which is now provided by the Right, shows that it is very uncertain what costs will be incurred in the treatment of patients when choosing your own choice of where to go. It pays to have control of where to use the money. In fact, in our time of government, 350 000 new jobs were created, and two thirds of them were in the private sector. So there's been a lot of active business policies to help get more jobs. During the financial crisis, we got the best out in Europe. Now the picture is turning around, and it's the Right Party and the Advance Party that are in government. Now it's important to look at what you can do. In summary, I think it's important to look at what we can do together, instead of saying that we have the best, they're bad, etc. I think it is important that we look at the good we have, but also at how we can improve this cooperation in the future – tripartite cooperation needs to be strengthened. We who are in opposition are also interested in finding good solutions with the government, because broad settlements contribute to predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e493	Thank you for a good debate, although I am a little uncertain whether we have all been in the same debate. When I hear someone take the word 'pleasure' in their mouths, at least they haven't listened to what I've said. I have said that the situation is serious, I have said that for those affected, it is critical, and that we must follow this very closely. I'm not underestimating the situation for the people who are affected, because I'm out to meet them. Those who are satisfied are the ones who look back in time. They are satisfied with the policy that has been pursued in a situation of historically high oil prices, with historically high employment, and take credit for the job that was done, and the jobs that were created then. And then you don't think the situation is complex. Well, I think you're pretty alone about that. This is a different situation. The oil market is globally different, the climate challenges are different, and the environmental agreements are different, and we have to deal with that. We need an oil sector that is competitive internationally, and that's what we're working on. Then we don't sit on the stands. I have since joined, traveled around and talked to companies and employees. For the past few weeks I've been to Haugesund, I've been to More and Romesdal, I've been to Telemark, and I've been to Kristiansand to get recordings, to be close to the situation, and to be able to take action. When I was at NOV in Kristiansand, they asked for changed rules related to being able to take education during unemployment. It took very few days for the Minister of Labour to answer that question. That's not just how we follow the situation, we take action when we think that's the basis for it. Looking back at the rules of leave and arguing that eight out of ten returned to work, the historical figures are in a different context. Many people are not going back to the companies they rely on, unfortunately. We're not going to have the same number of employees, because we didn't spend the historically good years on that transition, getting less vulnerable, and getting more legs to stand on. That is why we are now in a different situation, although very many are still going to work in the oil and gas sector. Property taxes have been brought forward by several, and to make the rich richer. Yes, I have done it before, and I do it again: I recommend visiting Norwegian owners along the coast that are struggling. From Henriksen's own hometown, I recommend a visit to Karsten Moholt. I was with Linn Cecilie Moholt last Friday. She's manned by 55 people, she's not making any profits, and now she's going to pay taxes on wealth in this extremely difficult situation. She's wondering what we're doing. There are a lot of these examples. I think you have to be out there, you have to talk to the people who are trying to make everyday life go up, and try to make the businesses survive. I must also say that it is that someone misunderstands how our arrangements are used, must not lead to the Storting doing so. That's 70 pst. of the schemes in Innovation Norway and also in the Research Council go to existing enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e510	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e524	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to three lines of reply are given after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines of response after submissions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e531	The case concerns the concession law and part of the concession law, which is the one that is popularly known as the price control. The government sent a proposal to Stortinget and asked for the price control to be lifted, and there were few who really thought that the Stortinget would cancel the price control. What the government saw as an opportunity, on the other hand, was that we could make changes to the concession law and changes to the price control. So it was like some parts of the Storting said that this is not the time to do anything about it, and it's been very clear about it. But on the other hand, there were four parties – the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – who saw that there were opportunities here to make some changes, and then we sat down and looked at where it was possible to make changes, what we wanted to make changes on, and then we came up with a very good result. And I want to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for a very good cooperation, for good conversations and for the good mood they always show in the conversations we have. This case has been going on for a long time, and there has been a lot of back and forth and a lot of postponements of it, and that's not so strange, because it's a complicated case. The concession law is complicated. When you make changes to the concession law, there will be consequences, and it's very important that you take care of those consequences and know what they're about. Someone will claim that this matter is a defeat for the government. On the contrary, this is a victory. So here the total conservative forces that don't want any changes have lost. There are changes to the concession law: there are changes by raising the price ceiling. Changes occur by exempting forest properties from price control. There are changes by looking at whether it is possible to exclude combined properties from price control. So there are big changes, and I'm glad, because that's how laws that have worked for a while need change, and especially because society is evolving, and agriculture is also evolving. We in this country must also follow developments and participate in what is happening, so that we have the opportunity to have an agriculture that is forward-looking and good, and that makes it possible for those who are engaged in agriculture to do the job they are going to do, namely to produce food for the Norwegian people. So I want to go into a little thing in the setting, and it goes into what's going on with the estate and the forest. It is proposed here, among others. that one is required to make changes to the shunting law, so that it is not allowed to remain in a dead-end residence for more than four years. Now, there are different numbers around how many forest properties this applies, and when you start subtracting what's going on with corporation, municipal and county properties, the number is getting pretty low. Then it's important that a breath a little bit out and look at what might be the consequences of making such a change. We don't know how many properties it really applies to, so it's going to be a long shift, because there's always going to be a lot of properties that are in the shift, and it's going to stop a shift, so it's always going to be a new shift. That's why it's important that you get an investigation into this, so that you know if there's a lot of properties, how many covers this is about, and what kind of consequences it gets to do such an interference in the law of replacements and in private property rights. We believe that it is important to get an assessment around it, so that we can make a decision that is as correct as possible, before a person goes in and does such extensive action as it is desirable for someone to do. So I'm going to ask that someone take a little breath in the ground and take a look at an investigation instead of making such a comprehensive and in-depth decision that it can then be expected to be made. I don't think that's going to benefit from what's really the intention, that we should have good forest operation. We don't know if there will be any better operation of the forest because if we introduce such a rule. We don't know, as I said, how many areas are there? We almost don't know anything. The only thing we know is that there's a big interference in private property, and that's why it's also important that we get an investigation into it, so that we know the consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e553	Would the representative like to include the proposals in the vote from the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e556	Yes, I suppose I can do that, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e561	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e566	Several professionals have stated that there is a large loophole in the entire law if a person opens up for property-related concession treatment if a person leases it away. And I've noticed the representative of Ørsal Johansen's comment in the Nation in this context: "They were aware of the problem, but add that there will always be dirt holes in every law." Does the representative feel that it is right to make laws where there is a loophole that you are aware of, so that you can avoid the intention of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e573	If the representative Omland had brought the rest of the quotes that were in that article, he would have seen that we also asked the government to do an investigation here, and I actually trust that lawyers and government professionals will be able to make a law that makes us avoid such a loophole. The representative of Omland is also aware that if you want to look for loopholes, you'll always find it. In the law today there are an incredible number of loopholes, and therefore we ask the government to come back with a case to the Stortinget, which means that the dirt holes are sealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e580	Paragraph 9, first paragraph, point 1, price control does not obtain a majority. The progress point and the right have lost at that point. Agriculture is a private enterprise, the interest in farming depends on profitability, better profitability gives greater interest, future-oriented agriculture requires better profitability. Its higher price one must pay for the farm, the more of the profits must be used to serve the capital. Its more one pays for a farm, the more of the profits must be used to serve the capital. And so it gets smaller again as labour income. This is the basic economic context of the agricultural economy, as in any other economy. That's the core of the question we're now talking about. Does the Progress Party agree in this context – its higher price, its more capital, its less labour income?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e589	It is interesting that the representative says that the Right Party and the Advance Party have lost. No, we don't. Those who have lost here are those who are so conservative that they do not want any changes in the law at all, and who do not want us to have a law that is adapted to the societies of today and the future, but who will have a law that is adapted to the society of yesterday and the last century. So we haven't lost – in no way. What we've done is that we've made changes to the concession law, made changes that allow us to develop agriculture as we go along with the time we have. Prices go up, they always have, and price trends are followed. The changes we are making here are relatively small and will have no significant impact either on the turnover of agricultural property or on the profitability of those in agriculture. The limits are still so low, so I don't think it will have the greatest meaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e597	Two factors: the representative of Lundteg took up what is central when a price control is lifted, or makes it more liberal so that many properties are exempted from price control. Does the case-rapporteur think that the properties for sale are then becoming more expensive or fairer? According to my concepts, it must mean that we get a risk that it rises in price, and that it makes it harder to recruit people. That is the one I am asking the rapporteur to answer. The second is that on the part of the rapporteur, it is said that amendments to the concession law are now being made. The first decision the Stortinget is invited to today is that the whole case is sent back to the government – so there will be no decision today – and this is a matter that has been in Stortinget for one year and eight months! After all, it can be difficult to win a government that often adorns itself with such perseverance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e604	I will repeat what I have said in my post and to the previous replicator: Yes, this is a victory! There was no one who believed that we would have the price control lifted, not even Storberget had any particular faith in it, for understandable reasons, and neither signed, but we wanted to make changes, and we now get those changes by getting back to us the legislative amendments where there are relatively large changes in the concession law and in the price control. That's what we wanted to do. It's not a seven-mile step, I totally agree, but it's at least a good step in the right direction. We are going to be happy for that – at least we want to make changes. With regard to the price of properties, the average price of agricultural property in 2013 was about. Two million. kr, that is well below what is bordered today. That we now raise it, makes some more properties come under it, but at the same time we know that most of the properties are traded within the family and do not come under price control in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e611	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e614	Over a long period of time, there has been total unforeseeability and uncertainty related to the concession law and price control for agricultural property in Norway. The government has the pleasure to thank. For a long time it has been announced that the concession law should be removed. You've now gone back on that. For a long time, the bill to abolish the price control, which we are now dealing with, has been in Stortinget, for a year and eight months. For a long time, the government has created uncertainty about the management of today's legislation, including: through a circular sent by the Ministry of Agriculture about almost ignoring the law. The concession law is in place. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party are now partly agreed – I say in part – on changes to price control rules. But the government gets the matter back. It's a total collapse of the government's will to do something in this area. Several solutions have been identified to further limit price controls. Such an additional limitation describes the government's sea in its proposition to the Stortinget: ‘The Ministry considers that price controls have been limited in recent years to the extent that questions can be raised about their impact, see Chapter 6.3. In such a situation, in the view of the Ministry, it would be unfortunate to choose an alternative where price controls are further limited to include in practice only a few individual holdings.’ The decision to which the Stortinget is invited today describes the government's seas as unfortunate. From the point of view of the Workers' Party, we find it mildly unfortunate that the conciliators choose solutions the government believes are unfortunate. In the very small proposal on some and 30 pages, there is no discussion of the fact about the new entry point and its consequences. All indications suggest that very few properties will gradually be subject to price control rules, if one is to pursue some of the decisions of the majority parties today. With today's rules are estimated to be above 50 pst. of the properties other than price control and, in practice, residential property. For counties such as Finnmark, Troms, Nordland, Hordaland and West Agder, the proportion without price control is even higher. We have a legal unfortunate situation, how important rules for ensuring agriculture throughout the country, recruitment and housing are applied only to a small part of the uses. In our opinion, this has not been a good legal process. The management of this matter by the government parties is not good. The proposition is deficient, and the matter is very ill-lit. As I said, it's been lying in the Stortinget for a long time, and now it's going to end up with a splash. The size sends it back and asks for a new proposition. Where such important laws are proposed to be amended, the investigation should be better and the majority should be clearer. When the committee gave its opinion the other day, there were a number of majority and minority formations in every direction. There is no good political handling in a field where we want more activity, predictability and increased production. So to reality, an increase in prices could affect the entire market. More expensive entry value for young people who want to bet on agriculture and forestry was not exactly what we wanted when we talk so beautifully in many kinds of contexts about ensuring recruitment and profitability for those who really want to bet. We are comforted by the fact that in a rote law case, the only practical result of this round – in addition to sending the case back to the government – is that the government is asked to clarify to local, regional and central authorities that the provisions of the law on price control continue to apply. I'm glad this just got the majority, because here it's created a lot of uncertainty. I am eager to hear the opinion of the Council of State on this decision and what he wants to do about it in order to create the necessary clarity in the administration about what is quite obvious and which the government has chosen to create uncertainty about, that the law actually applies. The government's past activities, circulars and the ambiguity created around this require efforts to clarify its practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e637	When you hear Knut Storberget, it's a sea of both time and ideology from what was once a driving force from the Workers' Party in agricultural policy at the Gunhild Eyeyang, that you now struggle to be reactionary. We have just heard an interpellation debate where the representative Per Rune Henriksen made the impression that the Workers' Party can only spend money to compensate for a fall in the oil industry. Now the Storberget races with everyone who wants to regulate agriculture further in their heels. I just have to ask, where is the Workers' Party going to find the resources to meet the expectations you're actually creating? We are responsible for trying to create a future industry that will contribute to Norwegian well-being, and I believe that we are in good shape as we get the deregulated industry, at least in part.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e644	When Gunnar Gundersen describes the resistance of the Workers' Party to making the changes outlined in price control and the concession law, as a reactionary, I just want to reiterate that we regard many of the property rules as just a guarantee that we are able to maintain both production and settlement throughout the country. When the representative also asks where we are going to find the resources for this, I would like to say that, first of all, it is so that we believe that the community would spend more on food production than the government parties want, and less on tax credits for those who have a lot. But perhaps the most important thing in relation to price control is that an important resource for those entering the industry is to acquire either family property or another property for a reasonably affordable money. There we now experience that the Right Party and the Advance Party will actually make these properties more expensive. And the most important input resource in this case must be that we will ensure that the price level is still moderate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e649	Yes, but the representative Storberget knows that family ties are very strong in Norwegian agriculture, and there are completely different mechanisms than the concession law. It's quite funny when he's talking about that it's going to be a guarantee of settlement. I wonder if the Great Mountain has at all traveled around the country and seen what is happening. If you're going to talk about having a guarantee that we're going to live through a concession law, you should at least be able to record that there's no law at all to meet your expectations clearly. Maybe it's time to get real, at least in that type of rhetoric? We are committed to an active agriculture, in both soil and forest, that exploits resources in a sustainable and good way. And we take inwards that the pressure on productivity growth is actually so strong that you can't stop it. When will the Workers' Party once again begin to realise that it is going to be a development actor in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e660	I can assure the representative, Gundersen, that I have been a few trips around the country. I think I have talked to many of the actors – those who have shoes on – who in both the government consultation notes related to this matter and in public debate actually say that if we are to be able to resist and tackle the demand for increased productivity that the representative Gundersen is also concerned about, we must at least not make the entrance ticket to this industry more expensive. That's where I think the Gundersen's reasoning fails completely. You have to have a reason why you want to cancel the price control. Now you have encountered significant problems in Stortinget with it, which I was in my post. However, the fact that the abolition of price controls may result in an increase in the price level of agricultural property, it is not necessary to be a civil economist to understand, and that it may also have an effect on the properties not covered by the concession law is quite obvious. When families acquire property, it's obvious that you look at the general price level of these properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e665	In its programme, the Labour Party says that the law needs to be adapted to the current situation. This applies, inter alia, to: the concession law and issues relating to leased land. Price control is part of the concession law. That's where the Workers' Party wants nothing to do. In this case, there is also a proposal about this with clay soil. Nor does it support the Workers' Party. Then I want to know: what about the concession law, two areas, will the Workers' Party now change to adapt it to today's situation in industry and society? I want two specific areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e672	It is quite right that the Labour Party has a pragmatic approach to both the property rules we have and other instruments of agricultural policy. There's no doubt about it. But I really have to say, with all due respect to report, that with the preparatory work that the government has done here, it is difficult to read out some adequate and good opportunities to change the concession law in order to create better recruitment and a better economy for those who actually run. We have not given any signal in either the programme or other debates that this legislation now needs to be amended, but if it is needed, and it is shown that there is a need for it, and those who really have fun on it say that here we have to take some action, we have to be open to hear it. The situation now is that the government has got this matter right in the flint, both by the bulk of the population and by those who have really had fun and have let themselves be heard in this legal process... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e678	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e681	There is no doubt that we have stated our primary position here – we would have preferred to get rid of both concession law, price regulation and everything. But at the same time, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left, for everyone knows that this is a difficult matter to get a majority for in the Stortinget. So, when Storberget talks about power of action, he actually has to respect that there are discussions in Stortinget that you are with and shapes. But what's the main background behind the proposals is that we believe in a strong property right. We believe in ownership as a driving force for both innovation, development, innovation and all that. Without a strong right of ownership, with one's own resources, one will not get the desired development in District Norway. As I was also involved in the line change with Storberget, I think that the development in District Norway indicates that we are quite right. But you don't want to take it inwards. It's something completely different. I think it's amazing to see that the Workers' Party has become perhaps the most reactionary. I also have to say that it is quite entertaining to listen to the representative of Storberget, because at one moment we are responsible for everything that goes wrong in agriculture, and now we almost get nothing. I mean what we get here is significant steps in the right direction, and that's what Storberget says: there are fewer and fewer properties being dealt with by both price control and concession, and that's very good. In addition, I think it is very good that a majority of the Stortinget now takes inwards that agriculture consists of two widely different industries: soil and forest. Agriculture lives within high customs walls and is a highly protected industry with very special objectives for Norway. We're equally concerned about making optimal use of our resource base and speeding up our production. That shows the grips we've done, also that we've done pretty well. But it is also quite clear that this industry needs completely different framework conditions than forestry. I'll get back to that a little bit, but I also want to bring in the productivity commission here. Agriculture — and both soil and forest — has had a fantastic productivity growth. It's probably the two industries that have had both the highest and the most stable productivity growth over time. But what does that mean? Well, that means it's getting tougher and tougher to get an output on a farm of a certain size. One has to produce more for every single year. Technological advances, as well as progress in species and such things, have done a great deal — one produces more — but, at the same time, the farm has less and less impact for each year on the employment it can provide. Ergo is this kind of regulation that we're dealing with here, almost impossible to fight. It also shows the development of agriculture. There are increasing numbers of practitioners producing more food and also more forest raw materials. In the case of forests, I believe that we are fulfilling much of what you want, through Forest 22. There is a whole value chain in forestry that has asked for this kind of deregulation. It's amazing that we're now sitting with a forest resource that can carry a logging on at least maybe twice what we have today, and that should give value creation around in the whole country, but in a red-green period with a total lack of focus on competitiveness, we actually halved the industrial capacity in Norway, so that we're now net exporters of timber. It may be that forestry can live well, but the country is also missing out on enormous value creation. The challenge on this side is to create such a stable framework and a high level of activity in forestry on the primary side that those who want to invest in the country have faith that a higher level of yield and a higher level of activity can actually be maintained. Then we get the basis for investment. So that's how the whole forest industry symbolizes the transition we're actually in. We will create new, sustainable agriculture based on green resources, which will live in an international market and create jobs with high value creation. Then we succeed in the transition, and the measures we take here, I think are quite important to get on the right track there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e698	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e701	The government has previously sent a letter to all the municipalities and counties of the country, informing them to disregard the rules on price regulation. This is not in accordance with the law in force and not in accordance with the view of the majority of the Storting. Therefore, we propose that the Stortinget should ask the government more precisely to the agricultural administration, the County State, the county councils and the municipalities to comply with the provisions of the law on price control, and await the treatment of the Stortinget before any amendments to the concession law are implemented. Will the government now send a clarification to these authorities about it, a clarification which this time should be in line with the view of the majority of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e708	It is a matter for the government, for which I cannot take full responsibility. But I believe that the government also realizes that we have parliamentaryism in Norway, and when a majority decides, I expect that it will also be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e713	The fact that soil and forest are different markets is maritime, and arguing that since the forest has a different market, one must not have price control, is only a lack of knowledge. For the whole point of the price control, it's useful. The value in use of the forest to be used for price control is the value in use of the land to be taken into account. That's the principle. That is why the argument has been put to death. The concession law is progressive. I'm very proud that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are on that tradition, a progressive law in which the People's Government should have its opinion about who should own. The right is talking about that it's a strong property right. Strong ownership for the benefit of whom? That's the nucleus of this. I would like to repeat my question, which I did not get an answer to from the Progress Party: Its higher price, the more needs to go to cover capital, the less remains to labour income – do the Right agree with this simple context?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e720	We're doing this for the benefit of an active ownership, and you're not going to travel to a lot of companies until you see very big differences in what individuals are able to get out of things, some are making graystones of gold, and others are making the opposite. So we want to stimulate an active ownership through this, and we think it's remarkable how the Center Party wants to deprive people of ownership of their own property. That you can believe it! That's what you do when you actually take people from the authority to decide which price to sell at, and to whom to sell. So here we have fundamentally different angles of incidence. In the case of investment, most depend on bank financing to invest. Regulating the price down weakens security into District Norway, and it weakens the ability to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e727	What is remarkable in this discussion so far is that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party can concede some rather simple logical contexts. Neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party would like to increase the room for price increases in agriculture. They will not be in favour of major agricultural appropriations. So one doesn't want to increase gross income for producing food. What we're talking about now is the price of the property. As the representative of Storberget was concerned: price increases will be a consequence of what the Right Party and the Advance Party want. In a normal capitalist economy, net income shall cover capital and labour income. Is it not the logical context – including that of the representative, Gundersen – that its more capital, the more of its profits, must be covered by the cost of capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e734	Here we have a fundamentally different approach to how to run a business. I tried to tell the representative that we have full confidence that individuals themselves can decide how much they can pay for a property in order to run it sensibly. We believe that there is quite a difference in innovation, etc. whether it is an active owner or a passive owner, whether it is a competent owner — at all, how to approach owning an agricultural property. There's a pretty big difference in operation. We have the fundamental confidence that there are the individuals out there who are the best ones to decide, not some bureaucrat or politician at the municipal level. This is the fundamental difference between the Center Party and us in the inference angle of this law. The Party wishes to entrust ownership to the local policy. They have to answer for that. I don't believe it as a long-term solution for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e743	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e746	Agriculture is important for Norway. Every day, high-quality food is produced. Agriculture is an important district industry; it is important jobs. At the same time, this is an industry undergoing major changes. Renewal and investment requirements are greater than ever. This must also reflect the operational basis. The Left and Christian People's Party has managed to stop the abolition of the concession law, which was the ambition of today's government. We have also stopped the abolition of price controls, but we are creating an agriculture that is better equipped for the future. To quote from the leader of the Nations on February 3rd this year: ‘The changes are mostly seen as logical and reasonable. Changes in price controls are to a large extent an adjustment to the current situation in the industry. Simplifications in the purchase and sale of neighbouring land should help reduce the proportion of land rented. With regard to the removal of price controls on forest properties, this must be thoroughly investigated.’» I think the leader of the nation has perceived something that not everyone in this room has been able to perceive. The objective of price control is to contribute to a responsible price for agricultural properties. At the same time, it must be possible for those who invest to regain their investment when one day they sell their life's work. When the average construction cost of an empty house is 4.6 million. kr, it is unreasonable that the property should go too far below this. Everyone must have a place to live, including farmers who choose to stop. The Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating the responsible and return-based movement of agricultural property. The requirement for renewal and investment is greater than ever. The operating basis must therefore be equivalent. That's why it's good that there's a majority that asks the government to come back to Stortinget with proposals to raise the scope of the concession law from 25 dean to 35 dean. This is a modest increase, a gradual increase, which the Christian People's Party believes makes sense. This is an order that the government will return to. This will affect the obligation to live and price control, but not the obligation to operate, imposed by the Law of the Land. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to facilitate the purchase of nearby additional land, and has asked the government to come back with proposals to this effect. This is not a breach of the concession law, as someone has said it is. It is intended as a simplification to enable a farmer to buy additional land from his neighbour, without requiring a concession request. Growth in the proportion of land rented shows that there is a clear need for more people to be able to buy land to increase their operating base. The Christian People's Party has asked the government to come back with suggestions on how this can be done. The Christian People's Party wants the government to present proposals that simplify the purchase of additional land when the distances between the properties are small, and when the buyer meets certain requirements for use. The Christian People's Party has always been responsive to hearings, and we will, of course, also be responsive to the round of consultations we are about to enter. Forestry has been, and will continue to be, important for Norway. Forestry is active in another international market, which is clearly different from the agricultural sector. At the same time, forest property is regulated in the same way as agricultural property. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the forest industry should have the right framework conditions for necessary restructuring, and wants the government to return to the Stortinget with the consequences of excluding clean forest property from price control. The Christian People's Party differs here from the Left and the Government Parties. Otherwise, the Christian People's Party is concerned with a living agriculture throughout the country and with increased food production. That is why we need to take the necessary steps to strengthen agriculture. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this matter ends with orders to the government on most points. It facilitates reworked proposals, where all stakeholders can submit input through the consultation. That's how we create a good framework for one of our most important industries. Good agricultural policy is not created by being negative to all changes in the agricultural sector. Good policies are created by recognising the changes the industry itself has undergone in recent years, and by seeing what changes it will need in the future. We therefore believe that the changes we have now made will create a necessary space for action, which this industry in the future needs. I bring this up with the one proposal that the Christian People's Party has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e780	Would the representative also like to take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party with the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e783	That's what the representative does.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e788	Then Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e793	I listened very carefully to the representative now, especially when it came to what was good agricultural policy. And I notice that in proposal No. 4 – as the Christian People's Party stands alone – actually goes beyond what is the proposition, which is about price control, and asks the government to assess the issue of total freedom of concession for a good number of transaction types. There's one type I want to ask about, and it's about the question of where to rent land. So the Christian People's Party is asking that the government now assess exemption from consent to sharing or concession in those cases. Many of us are afraid that it will mean an opening for circumvention. Is this a proposal involving good agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e800	It is good to hear that the representative Storberget listens carefully to the article on what good agricultural policy is. If the representative also reads a wording in the vote before the verbal proposal he is now referring to, it says that this ‘will contribute to the maintenance of the main purpose of the concession law’. Since the representative is a lawyer, I can refer to the purpose of the concession law. The purpose is set out in Chapter 1, Section 1: ‘The purpose of the law is to regulate and control the movement of real estate in order to achieve effective protection of agricultural production areas and of the most beneficial ownership and use conditions for society, inter alia. to meet: – the needs of future generations. – the agricultural industry. – the need for a basis for development. – the consideration of the environment, general nature protection interests and open-air interests. – consideration of the settlement.’;» That's the main plan for this change as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e822	The representative did not answer the question, for my question was about the cases of renting out land. Then, according to the proposals of the Christian People's Party, one will not fall within this purpose, of which I share the representative's view. That's a good point of view. But won't that mean that, just to be able to bypass such a purpose, you can lease the earth away for a short or longer time, and then you don't get in any situation where you're being tried, neither in terms of sharing, nor in terms of concession, as the Christian People's Party suggests? Does not the Christian People's Party see that this implies just bypassing as important purposes as they now sailed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e827	This is the main plan for the changes the Christian People's Party wants the government to come back with. To try to use our own words, we want the buyer of additional land to have a farm with production, and that the property that he or she wants to acquire meets certain distance requirements and gives a total property natural boundaries. We have thus brought this in with the representative's usual words.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e832	I record that the representative Hemdal embellishes himself with beautiful words from a leading article in the nations. It is important to be aware that this was written and printed when the paper only had Hämdal and the conciliators' own words about what they had agreed on. The setting was given, and much indicates that the newspaper has now read the setting and sees what it actually says, and the verdict today is quite loud: ‘Once again, the KrF and Left have promised to decorate the government’s policy. Now the law on concessions and price controls applies in agriculture, which is being dealt with in the Storting today. There is a lot of evidence that the aid lots will once again be cut short.’ When a person listens to the post of representative Heimdal and reads what is in the setting, it is a certain mitch. My question is, Have a fool fool himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e842	The representative has not cheated himself. We have stopped the price control. We've made an adjustment. We've stopped repealing the concession law, and we're giving the government an order. So we haven't made the big quantum leaps that the Central Party's own State Council did in 2010, by doubling the price control, from NOK 750,000 to SEK 1.5 million. kr, or as you did in 2012, by going from SEK 1,5 million. DKK to 2.5 million. kr. That quantum leap has not been part of the Christian People's Party. We've arranged for a change in the price limit of 1 million. kr, in order to maintain the price evolution of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e847	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e850	For the Central Party, property policy is one of the pillars of agricultural policy. The fact that a concession law has been passed has contributed greatly to the fact that today we have self-owned farmers in Norway. This has helped us to have a relatively young peasantry in Norway compared to a number of other countries, and the law has been regularly adjusted and brought in line with what is called ‘time and hope’. So we've changed the law in the power position to keep it. I also believe that the concession law is one of the reasons why Norwegian agriculture today is not in the situation of Danish agriculture. But a situation of strong debt growth, increasing use and a weakening of property law can lead us to Danish conditions. It doesn't want the Center Party. Then there is a question about who has won and who has lost in the negotiating room. At least what's lost is the accuracy and the reality. Here, the government has delivered a note of consultation and a proposal to repeal the law, and then one uses it as the basis for any change in the same provision. This cannot be the case, since the hearing opinions are based on the removal of the provision, not on all possible technical changes to it. And then it's not right, as the representative Hemdal says, that the central party in power has made quantum leaps in price control. We've changed to keep going, we've made adjustments to the amount limit and the area limit. What you're doing now is you're cutting off the foundation wall of property policy with bad guys. It's something completely different. So even though the government has lost the fight to remove the price control, I believe that the representative Ørsal Johansen is probably right when he is very pleased with the result, when someone knows what his wish was for the process. For the truth here is that one goes beyond that list pile in its proposal. What's good is that in a decision, it's a majority that reintroduces price control. That's good. It shall then apply until this new order is placed. Then one can ask himself the question of why it took two years. But one has delivered the order, which does not give loopholes in the law of circumvention – it is bar doors with opportunities for circumvention. Price control will lose its meaning. And so in addition to this decision under the concession law that says that if you rent a property, you will no longer be entitled to a concession, or if two properties are ‘near’ each other – a very precise legal concept – you will no longer be entitled to a concession. ‘Near’ to each other is something other than neighboring properties. If it is in the same village, in the same municipality, in the same region – it will be nice to see when we get the matter back. So here I think the Christian People's Party and the Left must see what they've been doing, and what order they've delivered. There is an additional order, which will weaken price control, and which increases the risk of Norwegian agriculture becoming like Danish agriculture. So to some detail here, for example. the motion for a resolution on the death penalty: the centre party has a great sense of limiting that possibility, and if the Council of State wants to come back with a properly investigated proposal, we would welcome it. But here is a Christian People's Party and the Left, and without any investigation, they know exactly what the law is going to be like, and they put in the premises. And when we don't support the government parties' proposals, it's because it's a little too open at the edge, and this process here doesn't provide a basis for trust in the orders we deliver. The centre party will continue to pursue a property policy. It's one of the supports, but it has to be seen with other instruments. But it is not old-fashioned to be in favour of a concession law that guarantees Norwegian private ownership of Norwegian agricultural properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e870	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e873	From Pollestad we hear that the thoroughness has lost, and from Storberget we hear that nothing has been done. The reality is probably somewhere in between. It's interesting that we from a party like the Center Party get a review of it with price control that then totally ignores the value of the property. In the Center Party you like to use find words as independent farmers, you talk about private property rights, and at the same time you fence about a system where you consistently talk about just increasing the need for capital by removing price control. In my head, you have the opportunity to increase the value of the property you have, you can increase the value of your own use on your own. I have to ask the representative if it is a paradox that we have to regulate it. Private ownership is suspended, but private efforts should not be allowed to increase the value for own use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e880	I thank you for the question. With regard to having a law adapted, which captures the changes that have taken place, the Centre Party has pointed out in its comments that there is a basis for increasing the so-called housing value supplement, which captures the sharp rise in housing prices, and for some properties it will make the law and price control more relevant. On the issue of price, we are concerned that agricultural property should be traded at a price that allows young people to enter the industry. And it can't be the way the Right agricultural spokesperson said at the so-called Southern Assembly, that the abolition of price controls means that those who sell are getting better paid, and it gets cheaper for those who want to enter the industry. The two things don't go together, and in that election, the Center Party is betting on those who are going into the industry, not those who are going out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e889	That's interesting, especially the question of entering the industry. I think maybe when it comes to young people who want to create their own business, buy themselves a small business -- you're going into the industry, you're ambitious, you have ideas about how to do it -- then it's likely that if three or four young people in a room want to get into the industry, you have different ideas about how to succeed, what to bet on, how to do it, what kind of technology you want to use. The paradox I see in the way the Central Party is debating here is that you're arresting the private property right, you're arresting the independent peasant, you want the young creative people into the industry, but you're refusing to say that there can be a difference between the young people. One refuses to say that one young farmer can be more competent than the other farmer – and if that is the case, at least we have to regulate it by law so that there is no difference in whether you have no opportunity to realize yourself as a farmer or as a creative nutritionist.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e894	For the youth to enter, it would be appropriate to pay what the garden can defend by its income — that is the agricultural tariff that is in force. And that's what price control is all about. The price control is precisely to ensure that one is within it. When you are going to have a scattered private ownership, it is desirable to have this kind of regulation. That's why the Center Party says it's one of the supports. And what I'm afraid of when a company gives a tow is the situation where a corporation sees it good to buy, where the slaughterhouse thinks that maybe it was good to own these farms, so that the farmer can work on the farm, but we own it. We know the discussion from the fishing industry – vertical integration, it's called that. There's something you'll get in agriculture too, if you don't have a policy to counteract it. This is not the opinion of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e899	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e902	Agriculture is important for today’s Norway, and agriculture will also have an important place in future Norway. Therefore, the Left will have an innovative, sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture. Norwegian agriculture is essential to ensure settlement and activity throughout the country, biodiversity and food production. Agriculture policy needs to ensure that food production is safe, environmentally friendly and long-term, and it is an overall objective for the Left to maintain a decentralised agriculture with a varied use structure. It is important for many reasons, not least for environmental, cultural and animal welfare reasons. Agriculture also contributes to important social goods other than food, such as the preservation of Norwegian cultural landscapes, travel and scattered settlements. For this reason, the conditions under which farmers operate are important to the Left. As has been said here today, the rationale for price control is the desire to reserve agricultural property for active operators, to ensure recruitment to industry and to regulate the economy in the industry. Therefore, the left considers that the price level of agricultural property must not be higher than that, with normal exploitation of the property’s operating base, it is possible to achieve a satisfactory economic result. The challenge is that the operating base of an agricultural property may be weak, while the housing value of a similar property may be very large. In view of this, the Left does not want the price control to be lifted, but we believe that the price regulation of agricultural properties should be limited. The introduction of an area limit of 35 deches of full-grown or surface-grown land and the provision that there shall be no price control for the acquisition of a property with residential buildings unless the transfer amount exceeds 3,5 million. kr, will take into account the capitalisation that has been in society since the last adjustment to the price control, and will allow for the expected price increase in the coming years. It's in the text that we have on the table, too. It is important that price controls and concession provisions apply as far as possible to uses with the real potential for commercial activity and to uses where the performance potential is limited. The left believes that the forest is a valuable and important resource. Our forests take up half of the man-made greenhouse gases in the country. The more intensive forest is driven and new forest is planted, the greater the climate gain results in the forest. In addition, wood can replace many of today's polluting materials and products. New uses allow for increased revenue base for forest owners. Bioeconomy is therefore crucial for meeting the needs of future generations for food and energy, while reducing climate change emissions. In order to increase the use of the important resource represented by the forest, both for carbon capture and as renewable raw material, it is important that forest industries have framework conditions that make the industry competitive in relation to neighbouring countries and that the turnover rate of forest properties can be increased. The left considers that increased turnover can and will provide a better property structure, which means more rational units adapted to the modern crop forms of the day. Experience has also shown that the release of new owners can lead to greater activity and higher yields. It will be a driver for new players. The left is of the opinion that today’s concession law limits the natural movement of forest properties in Norway. In our view, this poses a risk of stagnation not only for turnover but also for the level of yield. Therefore, the left considers that it may be reasonable to abolish price controls for clean forest properties, but the issue of price control for combined land and forest properties is more complicated because of food production reasons and that the operation of the property should be able to defend the price level. I therefore look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with proposals on how to cancel the price control of clean forest properties, and proposals on how to exempt the forest of combined agricultural and forestry properties from price control. I stress that this may make sense, and I look forward to getting a case from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e926	The construction youth team fears – in an interview in the Nation on 11 February – that the consequences will be “higher price increases and tougher times for young people who will become farmers” if the majority proposal is implemented. There is a broad consensus in the consultation that price regulation has a negative impact on prices. Less price regulation means more expensive properties. Does Left mean it's easier to recruit?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e933	The left, through both its programme and its policy, has been concerned about adjusting the entry point as we know it is right in the market. A raise to 3.5 million. kr will not affect very much. As far as the representative of Omland is concerned, I believe that recruitment to the agricultural industry will not be threatened as a result. If, on the other hand, we had cancelled the price control and had not had such a limit, it would have been a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e940	As part of the government’s justification, the word ‘simplification’ was used. I would like to draw attention to the proposal for Decision IV, which is located there, where one allows the Ministry to determine in regulation the scope of price controls. The price control is as mentioned in Section 9, first paragraph, No. 1 in the concession law, but in the same paragraph there are four other points to be considered in the matter of whether or not to grant a concession. They will then, as I understand the proposal, remain governed by the law. There will be a few situations in which one has one scope of price control and one scope for the other. One will in reality end up with two legislations and two different assessments under Section 9 of the Concession Act. Does the Left really think that this is a simplification, or was one not quite aware of this when one put the proposal down on the paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e948	As stated in the proposal for a decision to which Mr Pollestad refers, we want the government to come back with an assessment of the limitations that are being asked. That seems to be a good solution. We have then looked at this through a matter from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e953	In the debate, it has been argued that there has been a lot of bad pre-work. Some of these proposals are not designed to allow a requested government to come back within the theme, but one comes back to how price control on clean forest properties can be lifted. One is very determined at where you want to go, but one has no investigation at the bottom. What is the background to the left's having been and concluded so clearly, when we know what history we have in terms of changes in property law, namely that they are based on quite thorough preparatory work? Here's one sitting, as we've heard before today, in a good mood in a meeting room and snoring down quite specific points that you don't quite see the consequences of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e960	I would like to stress very strongly that the processes that the Left has been through with regard to the dialogue we have had with the government parties and with the Christian People's Party, and the dialogue that has also been in the Committee on the matter, have led the Left to the outcome that we have reached in the consideration of that matter in the Committee. I would like to stress very strongly that the level of both the entry point, the price control, the area limit, the area size, and the forest-earth ratio are factors that left has been very concerned about. We are quite close to what the Left wants in agricultural policy through what we are now presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e965	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e968	Odel, price control and concessions have long ensured varied family farming in Norway. Price controls have contributed to the maintenance of precious food production on agricultural properties. At a time of pressure on the food market, price controls have ensured that the value of agricultural land has not shot to the sky and that food production is maintained, for the benefit of the community. One of the first things Sylvi Listhaug did as a Minister of Agriculture was to send a letter to all the municipalities where she urged that the social concerns need not be taken care of and stressed, as has been the case. This led to an exchange of letters between the Government and the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the Stortinget, which lasted almost the entire period to the former Minister of Agriculture. Fortunately, there will not be a majority today for a full liquidation of price control, but the Christian People's Party and the Left are clearly willing to compromise when the government asks for it. Today, two parties who otherwise speak hot for food production will ensure a majority of serious impairments in the protection of the food soil and the independent farmer. It is the government's intention to increase the turnover of agricultural property and stimulate investment by making properties more valuable. But the higher price of agricultural property is a high price to pay for the community and future generations. The experiment is done before. Almost ten years ago, Denmark increased its soil prices considerably. This led to more money being borrowed to invest in buildings, milk quotas and land. The result was overproduction, strongly reduced prices and a huge debt. The debts of Danish farmers are so high that the banks still have problems. In Norway too, the burden of debt is already high with peaks of trillions. In particular, it is a challenge for the recruitment of new food producers. High prices and large investments in order to compete with current agricultural policies make the threshold high in order to take over active farming. We have to do something with that threshold, not make the debt burden even higher. In addition, a deterioration in price control will in particular mean a sharp increase in prices in population strata, where the pressure on the food soil is greatest. Only 3 pst. of Norway is an agricultural area and many thousands of decare of food land are already disappearing each year for the benefit of housing, roads and commercial buildings. It will be increasingly difficult for local politicians to continue to protect the food soil if the interest in growing the soil decreases. Food soils are difficult to get back into operation once they are built on. We know that. In the long term, greater use, capital-intensive production and larger agricultural liabilities will also have consequences for those who own food production. When the government and government parties are under ownership, the question is: ownership of whom? In the United States, it is common for the farmer not to own the land, the building stock and the utility, but to lease it to slaughterhouses or the food industry, which have greater capital forces. In Norway, family use with independent farmers has long been an important counter-power to the few who own more and more of the value chain for food. Ownership also gives the farmer an experience of responsibility and love for the earth and animals. Even high-tariff use must be profitable in production. Instead of increasing the prices of the properties, the Greens will make production more profitable and sustainable. It requires far more realistic prices in the store, but also larger and greener transfers to agriculture. We think the solution is to invest in quality and in the consumer's loyalty to Norwegian food, not in volume and price. 'Don't fix what ain't broken,' said the Americans, and I record that some in the debate think it's a conservative attitude. The Greens are going to vote against all the weaknesses of price control today. For clean forest properties, too, it is difficult to find boundaries where one avoids the loss of active forestry against coastal cabin construction or residential construction in the agglomerations. But we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, that the deceased cannot own forest property for more than four years – under a little doubt – and for X, to ask the government to clarify that the statutory price control should continue to be followed. We don't have any food to lose. The Greens agree that there should be good reasons for public regulation. But what is a better reason than food security and Norway's responsibility in a world where climate change, plant diseases, water shortages and population growth endanger future food supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e998	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1001	There was a small thing I hung myself up in, and it was that the representative Bastholm was very concerned that there should be a regulation, and there should be someone who is overall and determines the price of any agricultural property. Now it's like anyone who buys a company, a plant machine, etc. makes an assessment of whether the investment is profitable and whether you can earn it. Does the representative have so little faith that farmers who are going to buy land or forest are unable to make this assessment, so that they must have the public and politicians to assess this for them? Does the representative have such little faith in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1008	I have a great deal of faith in agriculture, and I think you could have much better tools than what you have today to strengthen agriculture. What we see is that the farmer often loses against other interests, especially in the population struts, when you don't have a regulation to ensure that the farmer is competitive in using the land for operation. The development seen in recent years is just an increasingly capital intensive agriculture, greater use and higher debt. There have been consequences for recruitment, and we think that is the problem the government should be concerned with fixing, and that they are now trying to fix the wrong problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1015	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1018	Since this is my first case that we are dealing with in Stortinget, I had originally written a script. But after hearing the debate, there is a need to avoid it significantly, for the discussion that actually takes place in this Chamber, I thought that I was partly lacking in understanding what the challenges are for those who are going to invest in agriculture for the future. While the Center Party claims that we are now opening up for size avoidance possibilities with bar doors, the Workers' Party says that the government party is running on large belly pads. Both parts do not work together, and so there is a significant difference between how the opposition handles this matter – I record it. But what is the background for this matter to be important? – I think that’s the core of this discussion. To a very large extent, it is about what farming we are going to have in the future, and what we are going to do to ensure that Norwegian farmers are closed down by actually increasing food production, which is the overriding principle that this increase has always said is to be relevant in agricultural policy: increasing food production throughout the country. Then it's like if we're going to know the answer to how we're going to solve it, we can't just look back, we have to look forward. Many of the farmers I meet now, who want to enter agriculture, nobles and girls who want to take over, don't lack faith in their own gardening or in their own business idea. They do it on the contrary, believing that there are opportunities here to develop something that both a person can live off and spend money on, and not least to do a worthwhile job – producing food for himself and for the environment, food of high quality and low medical use, which is safe for all consumers. And why is this question that we are dealing with today important? Well, it's about the investment will of Norwegian farmers, it's about the Stortinget often discusses the land problem versus land as an owner himself, to what extent a drifting land as well. If you want to solve that challenge, you also need to solve the regulatory challenges that you yourself have helped to address. Therefore, it was the intention when the government proposed to abolish the price control. For this reason, I am pleased with the cooperation that the government party has had with the Left and Christian People's Party, which is modernizing in important areas, and which does not give all the answers, but which openly gives me a command to come back again with it a need for more clarification. I'm very comfortable with that, and I'll do that job. But what does the farmer look like in the future? None of us know, but there's one thing I'm absolutely sure of, and it's that the farmers are going to be as numerous as they are. The young people I meet out there today do two things: Some invest in volume, and others invest in their niche production, own further processing, and others realize that they are a complement to the other two and do not live on production, but have it as a reindeer because they think it is fundamentally worth taking care of their own land and property. That's what we're going to see in the years to come. But Norwegian farmers have a real challenge because very many of these now make heavy investments – at 5, 6, 7, 8 million. kr – not only in operational buildings, but in new technologies, which reduce the environmental impact of an individual fertilizer, which causes the efficiency of each animal to rise because of the use of a milk robot. It requires investment, and for these investments farmers cannot, like others, borrow from the enterprise, because it is not a mortgage basis. Norwegian farmers depend entirely on their own trust in their own bank to resolve this with the necessary capital to invest for the future. That is what this is all about. The core of the problem is: are we going to help those who want to invest in Norwegian agricultural production, who want to go in because they believe that there is a future out there, or are we going to bet on those who want to get out of there? I think what the Storting is doing today is pointing to the first group, those who want to bet on the future because they have genuine faith in their own production. So I would like to thank you for the cooperation between the four parties and for helping to bring about the necessary modernisation. At the same time, I'm going to do my best to get answers to the questions they need to get answers to, in order to go further in the modernizing direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1031	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1035	I would like to welcome the Council of State to the Stortinget in the first ordinary case! I could also say that I agree with much of what the Council of State now said in its statement, about getting new actors into the industry, but I think it is wrong to what is going to be the final sum of this matter. The government has assessed alternative solutions in addition to removing the price control completely – I was referring to it in my post – and writes in the proposition that one does not see ‘reason for considering alternative solutions’. Then the government writes that it will ‘In the view of the Ministry, it is unfortunate to choose an alternative where price controls are further limited to include in practice only a few individual holdings’. What is now the government's request is to further limit price control and not remove it, which the government has said is unfortunate. What does the Council of State think of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1047	When the government presented this case, we did it on the basis that we wanted to cancel the price control. What I still think would be the best option. I realize that there are no multiples in Stortinget for it. So the Storting does two things today: They asked me directly to determine the possibility of raising the price control limit to 3.5 million. kr. I'll follow that up. They are asking for a number of new assessments to learn more about the consequences that the representative of Storberget is concerned about. I will deliver that, so that the Storting gets a good basis for their further work in that direction. So then we're in a situation where we're still stretching beyond the Labour Party's will. And that's the big question today, when the Labour Party challenges anything that can go wrong with the proposals we're now putting on the table, while saying that one doesn't get an impact: what are the real alternatives to these proposals from the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1063	We see a recurring tendency that it is the Workers' Party that must answer for the realities of the cases that are being dealt with. But now we have one thing: the majority of the population – not the Workers' Party, not the opposition – is actually asking the government to do something in the proposition is unfortunate. The Labour Party cannot take responsibility for this. That's one of the reasons why we think we shouldn't go this way. So my challenge to the Council of State was, what does he think about getting a job to do what the government thinks is bad? Another element of this is also the question of opening up to freedom of concession where property is rented out. Does the Council not see that it will also be very unfortunate that by just giving away for a short or longer period of time, one circumvents a code that many of us consider to be particularly important?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1070	The Council of State should not try to deal with the individual proposals that I have been asked to make today. The consequences and their assessment shall be submitted to the Storting after I have done so. On the other hand, it's definitely so that this council thinks it's right to go in a more modernising direction, as the Storting does today, and there's always bounding issues when you have new positions and make regulatory changes. But the alternative to it is also harmful, and that is the discussion the Labour Party does not take over. It was that the zero point is always the ideal option. The zero point is never an option when we're going to develop the basis for the industry further. Therefore, I think that standing still is actually a decline, because it doesn't provide the necessary modernisation, and that is – we didn't say anything about it in the proposition, but I can determine that here and now – the worst option.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1079	On several occasions, the Council of State has stated that increased recruitment to agriculture is the main task of the Council of State. We also heard that in today’s speeches, not in lack of faith, but in faith, the youth bets on agriculture. It's a saying that sounds familiar to those who are signed. We know that the Council of State wants to abolish price controls. That will not happen – that’s what Stortinget has said and will say something about later today, when voting. But my question is: does the Council of State see that price control is an important tool for securing the entry ticket – that it is as reasonable as possible, so that young people have the opportunity to bet forward in this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1086	Agricultural challenges are common, as is Norwegian agricultural production. There are some places where the price of the entrance ticket is going to be high, the cost of entering will be high, because there is a great potential for exploiting the areas that you actually enter and acquire. Second places, the price will be low because the potential is smaller. It ensures price control, in the same way that a market very often provides for such mechanisms. It's an important perspective to include in this that what we're seeing is a lack of not only public regulation, but also how the market prices various possessions. Many of the farmers I meet are concerned about how they can make the best use of the garden resource. It's about knowing what one has development potential for, and it's about economic muscles. I realize that there are no multiples in this pile to cancel the price control, and I respect it, but I think that what the Storting is doing today is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1093	I record that the Council of State has inherited the point of speaking from its predecessor that nothing happened. I would recommend the Council of State to read page 14 of the proposal, where there is a fairly clear explanation of the changes that have been in property law to keep it up-to-date over the years. But I want to use the line to challenge three concrete things. One is the problem of death - will the Council of State come back to Stortinget with one thing about it, based on the signals that have come today? My other question is, has the Council of State abandoned the plan to repeal the entire concession law with today's treatment? And the third is a question about the proposal for Decision X today, namely to realign changed administrative practices, as a result of the Listhaug letters. Will a letter be sent to the agricultural management during the month of February that restores it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1100	My challenge today is that I haven't used a single voice point, regardless of who I got it from. But I can comment on the three questions very specifically. Deathbu issue: I share the intention behind that proposal, but I think it's wise that we don't make decisions that we don't have an overview of the consequences of, in that area. There are many challenges in and around having an absolute rule, and it will probably require some municipal bureaucracy to do so, but I am willing to assess the consequences if the Storting asks me to do so. When it comes to the extent to which we've abandoned the plan to abolish the concession law, one of those things is a teacher as a fresh government council, that power lies. She is often in Stortinget, and I feel that the positions that Stortinget gives today also say something about the room for action that you have to navigate within changes in the concession law. I also think there are other things you can point to that can be challenging. So I don't ignore that I want to do it, but a total lifting of the concession law will be difficult to get into this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1107	I'm glad the Council of State puts away the script. I think the Council of State should keep doing that. I think the Council of State should continue to look forward, talk about the youth who is going to live on agriculture and earn money on the farm, because it is at the heart of the Central Party's policy. The willingness to invest depends on profitability. Before an investor, you have to have a property. With the view of the Centre Party on the price of the purchase of that property, a value in use of the land and the cost value of the operational buildings. If that price rises, the need to improve profitability will increase further if investment in the property is to be economically sound. My question, then, is this: does not the increase in the price of the property require increased profitability in order to ensure that it is safe to invest and invest in the property? First of all, on Earth – but we can talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1114	The representative Lundtigen remains largely at the time of entry when he makes his economic analyses of how this will turn out. For example, too many people who go in and choose to invest in their own use. whether to what extent it is actually possible to claim debt to invest up to the production one thinks one needs for the future, which one thinks it would be profitable in, but where the mortgage base is low because the value of the property and of the housing stock one has is lower than he would normally be in a market. It is a fundamental challenge that young people face in their daily lives, and it causes this discussion to lose out on getting into a trench one way or another. It's about how we give a lack of Norwegian farmers extra space for action to use the capital one can borrow on own use – possibly travel through surplus in operation normally – to invest for the future, because one thinks it is necessary. So we can't go into one or the other grave – we actually need a lot in this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1121	What's interesting is that the Council of States does not respond to the basic context. Any young person who is going to farm must first have a property. One must first acquire a property, and that's what we're now discussing. We also discuss the pricing of the purchase of property. In principle, one can either have free price formation or have price regulation. The central party price adjustment is based on the value in use of the land and the cost value of the buildings. This means that if you have high cost values on buildings, you have invested a lot in buildings, well, you have a basis for a high price. What is added here is that after one has bought the property and is going to invest, we have the logical context that the more one pays for the property, the more of the profits must go to cover the capital costs. Does the Council of State not agree with the simple context?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1129	This council is also busy with private property rights. It was also the Center Party – before. The situation is now that very many farmers will exploit their own property. They want to rub on him, they want to dispose of him themselves. And where the answer to the Center Party in a lot of other cases is to strengthen private ownership, the question here is how far and how far to regulate it, so that one limits it as much as possible. I also record that the Center Party earlier today has made an order that they arrested them when they did, for example. Increases in price control, was completely responsible and in no way dramatic, while when the Storting decides for something else today, it is claimed to have dramatic consequences. I'm tired of seeing such contexts. It's possible I'm a simple soul, but it's also obvious that the Central Party should think about whether the policy they're running in opposition is consistent with the one they actually led in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1136	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1141	So today the government will get a case in return, and then they'll have a discussion about whether it's happy or not. When history is written, it is hardly a positive sign. With the new rules, the tool is price control, so to speak, out of play. Everything suggests that very few property will be covered by the new rules. In my state, Sogn and Fjordane, about 60 pst. not covered by today's rules, and this will probably increase to about 80 pst. An important tool to secure agriculture throughout the country – recruitment and busses will now only apply to those affected. The consequences of the changes proposed have not been sufficiently highlighted, for example: what many people have been about here today: What are the consequences if agricultural property that has been leased can later be freely transferred without regard to the concession law? Is it free to rent for one year and then sell? Whether these are requested policies from the supporting party is still unclear to me. It is not possible to identify the consequences of this issue, and the worst thing is that the decision is so to speak irreversible once it has been implemented. The process of sending the matter back to the government has been very poor. Here we had an agricultural minister who, point 1, didn't realize that she was actually a member of a minority government, and that, point 2, also didn't bother to figure out where the bulk of the population was, in advance. A circular sent from the Ministry of Agriculture, where the birth rate was almost a call to disregard all the laws, created great unrest and uncertainty. It is now expected that the government will clean up, send new letters and clarify to local, regional and central authorities that the concession law will continue to apply its price control decisions. The whole process has been very inexorable, as I said, and unfortunately, we have an outcome that will reward those who leave the farm and punish those who want to enter the farm. Strong ownership rights for the benefit of the woman, the representative asked Lundtägen in the change of lines. Valid until: This does not have Gundersen representative or others from the government parties responded to. The Christian People's Party and the Left are involved in making it more expensive to go into agriculture, but it would have been even more expensive to go into agriculture with the primary position of the government. How this is to promote recruitment and get new ones into agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture should be able to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1154	The view of ownership — who should own and the social obligations of tenants — is historically the most important ideological issue in the Storting. Who should own a country that can be used for agriculture has always disagreed about — and so is the case today. Progress Party and Right: Wake up with the concession law. Right has the long line: wake up with any concession legislation. The Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV: We need a concession law to take care of social, long-term considerations. These parties are talking about biology, talking about fertility, talking about administrative responsibility, talking about ensuring ecological interactions in nature. Today we have experienced something joyous. We've also got the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party on the team. Congratulations on the post from the representative Bastholm! The red-greens represent obligations for those who have private ownership of land. These duties and family life, long-term agriculture is a model that many see hemimut, but we have a solid problem, and that is profitability. It is the profitability of agricultural work that is the major challenge. Unemployment is absent. What's the Senter Party's line is that we have a price control on the value in use of the land, whether it's soil, forest or land. If there is a high value for use, well, it provides a basis for higher prices. We are responsible for cost values in the operational buildings. If there's a lot of investment, well, you have a better operating base to keep going. We've been completely dynamic about the question of increased values of housing, and we've been dynamic about what limits we're going to set before we're going to enter with price control. What the Center Party has done here has been exemplary. We've been dynamic. We have done a wise thing, which has led to a very small discussion about the price control around Norway. But it happens in some areas, and it's in the central ones. It's in the central strata, where the soil is fattest, where you can run with wheat, with fruit and with vegetables. Today it's like in those areas, if one, for example. have a dairy farm, I would say that if it is sold so that it is rented out, one can pay at least three times as much for the farm as if it is sold to someone who will continue producing milk. That, the Council of State, is the big challenge, and that is what it is prepared to develop further. It is harmful to society, it is damaging to the environment, and it is devastating for the values that agriculture is supposed to preserve. That's why we have to reverse the attacks on price control and get the logical sense back, namely the value in use of the land, the cost of buildings and an assessment of the values that are such that those that have 30 pst. equity, shall receive income from its work on the farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1165	The President will recall that the speech should be addressed to the President, even when the commitment becomes great – perhaps especially then.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1168	The law on price control changes has remained in Stortinget since 2014, and in the meantime there has been full confusion around the country, with several of them. The reason for this was the Minister of Agriculture's letter to the municipalities and states that no decisive emphasis was to be placed on the price of the concession. In the course of the trip, we also asked when one could expect that the matter of repealing the concession law would come to Stortinget, when we thought that they heard a lot of things. So today we are dealing with the issue of price control, and it takes into account all these aspects and many of the proposals promoted by the majority regarding the concession law. They therefore propose that the whole matter be referred back to the government with a number of proposals. I am very pleased that there is at last a majority, consisting of all parties other than the government parties, who state that the letter to municipalities and county councils, not to pay attention to price, is not in accordance with the applicable law, and that a new letter must be sent specifying it. So a little bit to the majority proposal. When we had a hearing in the case, we received clear feedback that a non-wanted significant change. The same was also the result when the matter was being discussed. That the parties of government would go in for a removal of the law from their ideological point of view, we were aware, but that the Christian People's Party and the Left would be so close up to the Right and the Advance Party in this area, was surprising. The many proposals made by a varying majority are, in effect, a removal of price controls and a significant weakening of the concession law. This is a pity for an industry that needs recruitment. There is no doubt that price regulation has slowed down, and there have been a number of hearings. The representatives of the Left and Christian People's Party have today said in their speeches that they will not abolish price regulation. But if we raise the price cap and increase the limit of e.g. 35 covers inland and 700 covers forest, which is estimated to be up to 90 pst. of the agricultural property of my own country, West Agder, be excluded. In practice, such an extension would put the instrument out of use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1179	This has been a strange matter for me to get into – a matter with vague reasons for their claims in terms of both causes and effects. The fact that price control is as big a problem as the government says is difficult to find professionally good arguments for in the notification, and the hearing bodies are not quite clear about supporting that claim either. The same applies to the claim that the removal of price controls would lead to an increase in the demand for investment. That we have an industry that is struggling with recruitment, we can all agree on that. SV believes that the government has chosen the wrong gateway to an important question. Indeed, industry’s profitability is the most important driver in assessing its investment costs. Good agricultural settlements and stable framework conditions are the most important. And maybe the government should choose to look at all the other tools we have, and see if there might be other elements that are more important to the growth of the industry than the relationship to ownership. In the view of the SV, the government should therefore choose a different political approach to the issue in the industry than a one-sided focus on ownership. Now I've followed the debate here today, and it's still very difficult to see how the higher price for the land I need as a farmer will give me increased investment. The only thing that seems to make sense of this proposal is therefore those who want to leave the industry – not those who want to go in. SV therefore opposes all the proposals put forward in this matter, except for the Committee's position on X.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1188	Price controls have also been carried out in the control committee. On 12 June 2014, the suspension was given, and all parties except the Right Party and the Progressive Party agreed to describe that it was unfair for the government to send letters to the municipalities, the county councillors and the State's agricultural administration to in effect disregard Section 9, first paragraph, No. 1 in the treatment of concession because the government would propose to cancel this. It was then a difficult debate, and in that debate it was made clear that the Left was in favour of continued price control. It has been confirmed here today that the Left and Christian People's Party is still in principle for price control. What is now, however, is that we have a law, we have a circular, we have a letter from the Council of State, Listhaug, which requires one to take away the price control, and then we have the treatment here today, which says that one should still have the price control. What is central then is that the Council of State follows up the will of the Storting and in reality withdraws the letter sent by the Council of State Listhaug, because behind that letter there is no longer a majority. What is the majority of the Storting is still having price control. The existing circular that applies states that it is the value in use to be applied to the areas, that is the cost value to be applied to buildings, and that is a value of housing that is more precise. What is needed then is that the Council of State goes up here and tells what the government is going to do now, because every day, the property is sold for treatment under the concession law, with the corresponding price control. It is therefore essential that the Council of State tells the Storing and the public what they will do to follow up the will of the Storing. I expect the Council of State to end with a post and explain what one will do to withdraw the reality of the famous letter sent out by the Council of State, Listhaug, who was actually trying to cancel the entire price control.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1199	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1205	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1215	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Morten Ørsal Johansen, on behalf of the Right and the Party of Advancement, proposal No. 3, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 4, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how productive land on a property can be transferred as additional land to properties with adjacent borders is located in the vicinity of, or rented, without it being necessary to seek consent for sharing or concession. The government asks to return to Stortinget with proposals for such a change.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1244	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with changes to the law on shifts that the deceased cannot own forest property for more than 4 years’ time.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1263	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of an area limit of 35 deches of full-grown or surface-grown land for price control in the case of the acquisition of uninhabited agricultural property. This implies a change in circulars.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the appropriate return to Stortinget with an investigation into the best way to design the legislation in order to promote active ownership of forest properties.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1285	Line Henriette Heimdal has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1288	I ask that the vote be taken again, because that is not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1293	The proposals were supposed to fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1296	Let's do it again!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1301	That's the correct result, so let's leave the vote. Then we go back and vote over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1360	It's going to add up to VIII and IX. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed the same number of votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1369	Then we have to take the vote again – this president does not have a double vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1382	So it goes over x. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1396	Finally, I-VII shall be voted on. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1444	The President draws attention to a change in relation to what has been distributed. The President proposes that referendum case 161 be sent to the Financial Committee – it is deemed to be adopted. Further references were made:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-16.ana.ud1867e1468	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
