ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e26	There is a request for a permit, from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Sverre Myrli from 19 January to 21 January, to take part in a trip with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to Saudi Arabia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Are Health is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e45	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget dated 8 January 2016: ‘In the Council of State on 8 January 2016, it was decided that the Council of State Elisabeth Aspaker will be in charge of the Ministry of Knowledge in addition to the responsibilities it currently has in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the time when the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will liquidate parental leave.’; The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Storting has previously received a letter that the State Council of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will terminate parental leave from 18 January to 29 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e66	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. Then we start with the first main question, which is from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e71	Let me wish the Prime Minister a good New Year. One of the first things we heard in the New Year was the Prime Minister who now this weekend expressed her concern about the development of Norwegian leadership wages. The example that scared was the United States. I think it's enlightening and interesting that the Prime Minister says this -- we've been thinking it for a long time -- that increasing differences damage society's ability to change, and what we need now is to change. But then the question is, is that what the Prime Minister here says is the important thing, when she actually does the opposite, leads a policy that is unsocial and that contributes to increased differences? To encourage moderation is actually in itself free of charge. This is necessary when the trade union movement is now appealing to moderation. It was just to be lacking that no management wages also followed that line. But pursuing a policy against inequality like monks requires something quite different. One of the first things this government did was to propose 8 billion. kr in tax cut, NOK 40000 more for those with the highest income, while people with the usual income received a few hundred patches. Leading economists point out that these grips are very small growth-promoting, but they increase the differences targeted. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister and the Government have continued to implement this policy in the budget. In the fall we asked the Ministry of Finance to calculate how the government's total tax cuts have been distributed since 2014, and the total tax cuts to people mostly amount to NOK 5 a day, while those who have the most have received over NOK 2 000 more each day. At the same time, the government cut off support for the unemployed by nearly 2 billion. kr, the cancellation of holiday pay, the taxation of termination benefits and the increase in the quarantine period for entitlement to daily allowances. These are policies, and they are unsocial and contribute to increasing differences. Differences in the United States came not only because management wages increased, but also because they have the most systematically received. So I would like to ask: does the Prime Minister think that this policy, combined with a cut in the benefits of those who are in unemployment queues – it is getting longer and longer, unfortunately – helps to withstand the forces that are drawing on greater differences and increased inequality, as the Prime Minister expressed concern last Sunday?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e82	Let me start by reprimanding the wish for a good new year. There's a lot of big problems ahead of us. I would also like to thank you for the question, which is based on a talk that I gave for our joint conference on how we provide social mobility and less differences in the Norwegian society in the future. It is absolutely right that I have been concerned about the development that has been taking place in the United States in terms of the growth of executive wages. So since 1965, when the top executives in the United States had 20 times their usual salary, they have increased to 303 times their salary this year, or last year, from which the latest statistics are derived. It is a frightening development that I believe contributes to less cohesion in a society and that can also counteract economic development and growth in the future. Fortunately, we have a professional basis for discussing what should counteract this. The professional basis is inter alia: in the OECD report on what contributes to less social inequality. They have pointed out female participation, they have identified high-quality jobs that provide opportunities for development, they have identified knowledge and education, they have identified lifelong learning and tax and welfare systems that provide effective redistribution. So it's like the Workers' Party tends to boil it down to one measure, but it's not going to help prevent the differences. It will only help to prevent jobs and the opportunities to ensure that the most important goal, namely that everyone is in work, is realized. We, on the other hand, have a social mobility policy that goes beyond the major actions and instruments that help to improve participation in the profession, which helps our education system to provide social mobility, which helps to ensure that those who are the poorest are able to go to kindergarten because there has been a lower payment because of the four parties that have today supported the government on the issue of kindergartens, and which makes the possibility more possible. The list is considerably longer, and I have a three-quarters lecture I can send.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e91	All of our fractions here will have suggestions on a wide range of areas to combat inequality. The question is how we use our shared resources to achieve those goals. When the Prime Minister goes out and appeals for the leadership wages to be held back, I agree with that, but it is free to say to the Prime Minister. The question is what can be done in all the other areas. The availability contributes to increased inequality, and it's a worrying move. Before Christmas we asked the finance debate Prime Minister and the finance minister to explain what was left of the crisis package that was announced in the election campaign, which was advertised and partially negotiated away. Now we have entered 2016, unemployment continues to rise, and my question is: if it continues to rise beyond spring – it is unclear what is left of the crisis package after last autumn – what can the Prime Minister imagine of the necessary additional measures to meet the developments that some regions now experience as very dramatic, in months beyond 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e96	The government presented an ambitious budget for work, activity and conversion. That budget line and that budget year are now within its 13th day. Before we decide how much we're going to review in the budget, it might have to be allowed to start working. What is happening now, and we have a great deal of pressure on it, is that all parts of the package of measures that we launched – such as: additional maintenance – we now have a great deal of pressure to realize quickly. That's why we're now going to agree that the tenders are going out, and that the activity is coming up, and we need to see how the effects are going to be. We can't measure the result of a budget on day 13. It's too early, but beyond spring we'll see that many of the measures take place. And it's always the case that we're prepared to do more if the situation gets worse. At the moment, we have a dramatic development in the oil price, and it can have even stronger effects in the oil and gas industries. But it's too early to conclude, and we have to let the budget work a little bit before we pass a judgment on whether the budget actually has the effect we think.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e101	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e104	So far, the Prime Minister has expressed concern about differences, but is not willing to use the tax system to do something about it. She clearly believes that there is a siding, even though it is undeniably such that the tax system was the main reason why income differences increased last Right in government, that they went down under the red-green government, and that they are now increasing again when the Right is back in government. Anyway, I want to give the Prime Minister right in one thing, and that's that people have jobs, is more important than taxes. That's why the passivity we've seen in the last year is completely incomprehensible. Now, in his reply to the representative Gahr Støre, the Prime Minister says that the government is prepared to do more if necessary. That's good, but since we're at the very beginning of 2016 – if the Prime Minister looks back on the year that's gone, does she think that there's anything the government could have done differently, could have done earlier, to combat the rising unemployment that we're now seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e109	For the budget last year, we also had a high level of activity – a higher level of activity than the Workers' Party thought was right, and higher than Marianne Marthinsen thought was right last year. She wanted a lower level of activity in the budget they provided, both for this year and for last year. And yes, the greatest inequality is between those who are at work and those who are not at work in Norwegian society. It is great that wage developments in Norway have followed developments for everyone in it. But too many people are out of work. Although the Workers' Party now boasts of a dividend tax that came as part of the tax settlement arrangement made by the previous bourgeois government, and takes it to income for less inequality, it is also such that several stood outside of every single year under the previous government. That means that the inequalities got bigger. That is why it is so important that we go past the rhetoric and talk about the real problems of inequality in Norway, and that is why we have to. equip others to participate in the labour market. This government is doing a lot of it, and there are more suggestions during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e114	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e117	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for her commitment to differences, for knowing that small differences in a society contribute to a higher level of trust between people, and that contributes to the confidence that, in turn, creates the security we have in society to make agreements, to ensure that new jobs are created, etc. I would like to stress that, therefore, it was important for the Christian People's Party in budgetary negotiations to ensure both places of action for those who fall out of work, and not least permanent jobs through, for example. increased maintenance and increased investment as we know it is necessary. But right now, the crisis, or the challenges, especially the South and the West, are facing. For example, Arendal and the Kristiansands region, which have been and are world leaders in drilling technology, have major challenges right now. They want other types of instruments, because there are other types of people who become unemployed. They showed, for example: that many of them want to be entrepreneurs and then do not want to lose their daily allowances for the first period when trying to start up a business or that others other than Nav can contribute to empowerment. Are such exceptional measures something the Prime Minister wants to see?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e123	As part of the actions we launched in the budget last autumn, there were measures aimed at making use of the resources and ideas of many highly skilled people who are not now able to work at once, having to convert it into creating new types of jobs – more entrepreneurs, more able to create their own jobs and, hopefully, jobs to even more in the future. That is why there is more money for many of the entrepreneurial measures, and we have also presented our own business plan. There's a lot for innovation, for innovation. And then we look at how to manage the legislation related to labour market resources and daily allowances. Among the things we're assessing is about the rule that today allows you to go nine months in cash if you work at the same time to set up your own job, to be extended to one year. This is one of the concrete measures we now have to assess the consequences. So we're going through all the measures, not least to make sure that the measures we have are relevant to the type of unemployment we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e128	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e131	In order to combat differences, it is necessary to combat unemployment. In the South West, very many families are affected by dismissals and lay-offs. For example, all Statoil employees have been offered a final package – people are being told up. So these people ask themselves, what does the government mean? And then they can read that the Right Parliamentary Vice President, Nikolai Astrup, and the Energy Policy Spokesman, Tina Bru, asks the Governor of Statoil to reconsider the dividend policy, among others. due to the manoeuvring. It's only hours before the party's nutritionist and the first vice-chairman of the nutrition committee, Øyvind Korsberg, is out and asks the Right to keep his fingers off the barrel. This is not a clear policy. So my question is two-fold: was the Council familiar with the performance of its parliamentary Vice-President? And does the Prime Minister agree with the outcome of his parliamentary Vice-President?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e136	Erna Solberg is still Prime Minister. [[Laughter]] Erna Solberg has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e141	I would like to stress that I think it is absolutely right when we have a large Norwegian company, that there is also a debate about dividend policy. But then I also believe that the state and the government must be very clear when they send signals, and that they must do so in the governance structure towards a company. So even though there's a big and lively debate about what kind of dividend policy Statoil should have, I'm not going to participate in it, and I'm not going to answer that kind of question in Stortinget either. That management dialogue shall take place through the orderly and tidy conditions in which the control committee is also able to be transparent at any time. But that doesn't mean that there can't be a debate and a discussion, or that there are no opinions about things. We have seen under all governments that the representatives of the government parties can have views without the members of the government punishing them every time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e146	A group that is really exposed to big differences, differences that it's crucial to get something done in these conversion times, is self-employed – people who take a big personal risk of creating values for others, the community, are totally dependent on, amazing people we need a lot more of. The last time these differences were addressed by the academics at the NHO's annual conference. So the question is whether the Prime Minister is agreed with the Left in that it is absolutely necessary and urgent to do something about these differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e151	Many of our social arrangements are based on an employee-employee relationship. There's a lot of ways to organize it. For example, it means that the employer pays one share for part of the welfare goods, while the employee himself does it over the tax bill. For self-employed people, there is a different relationship, as you are both your own employer and your own employee. Then there will be some systematic differences, in the system and in the rights you have. We think it's right to go through this and look at it, but it also has to be weighed over time what are right choices in terms of that kind of inequality, and what counteracts, for example. ensuring that more people will create their own jobs, to create the new businesses in the future. So we're open to do such a review. But we're not open now to say that all the differences should be eliminated, because there's quite a large, cost-intensive approach, which also has to do with how much is paid for the welfare and social rights of the individual. But there has been a lot of work, including: related to ensuring full maternity rights for women when they are self-employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e158	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e161	I think it was nice to find out that the government doesn't think the inequalities in the United States are an example. Since half the government has Ayn Rand as a model, it was a useful clarification. But there's an empty rhetorical manoeuvre by the Prime Minister when she's concerned about inequality, but then the next minute, as in the interview with the VG, says that tax is not important in that context. This is very well documented in the research on inequality, for example. by Thomas Piketty, that lower taxation in a number of countries has been a driver of the differences we have seen. And that right-hand side impact has been achieved in many countries for lower taxation of those with high incomes and wealth, has been extremely damaging to the economy and to social cohesion in many societies. So we have a prime minister who is concerned about increasing inequality, but who conducts a tax policy to increase inequality. Since the Prime Minister does not want to talk about taxes, I would like to have an answer about taxes: will the changes made by the government in fiscal policy during this period reduce or increase the economic inequality in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e168	If we implement changes in the tax system – tax reforms that I understand the whole of Stortinget are interested in participating in a discussion about – such as lowering taxes on Norwegian businesses, it will create more jobs. This will help more people to live in the labour market, and there will be less inequality in Norway. But what Thomas Piketty also says is that the most important social mobility is not achieved through the tax system, but through the education system, and the talk that I gave on Sunday was about all the other measures that are also important, and that in fact many researchers say is more important and more important for social mobility and for combating inequalities: it is a good school that provides basic skills, it is filling adults' skills needs – we come up with a big message about it – it is to ensure that those who have the lowest life expectancy in Norway, people who are struggling with drug problems and mental health, get a better offer. Here the government takes a huge boost, as the previous government did a little bit. We're also looking at how to get even more roads into the world of work. It contributes to less social inequality; it contributes to a stronger Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e173	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e177	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish our Prime Minister a good new year. For its part, it was a good start to the new year to follow the Prime Minister's speech to the people on TV. But I also turned on TV 2 last night, and there we could right about the government's instructions to the UDI about sending all asylum seekers who have come to Norway from Russia, 5,500 people in total. In order to follow up government policies, bicycles will be collected from police warehouses around Norway, as a plan to send asylum seekers back across the borders of two wheels in winter cold. Someone will call this icy call in more than one way. When the Christian People's Party joined the changes in foreign law with the Government Party, the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Left, it was to limit the income of people without the right to protection. Our clear commitment to be part of the changes was that it should not be contrary to our international obligations. That made me more specific in the Stortinge treatment. We pointed out that a person who is entitled to protection in Norway cannot be sent out. Yesterday’s TV 2 case reported that several lawyers have criticised the government’s asylum instructions to be contrary to international law and that the instructions have caused internal unrest in the UDI. It's a mess of the Christian People's Party. My question to the Prime Minister is: can the Prime Minister guarantee that the government's instructions to the UDI ensure that all asylum seekers who come over the Storskog will be dealt with in reality and assess their need for protection, and that we do not violate Norway's international obligations and the Refugee Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e186	The government invited the Stortinget to a legislative change in the autumn to remove the special paragraph that imposed, under Norwegian law, and which is not part of our international obligations, that we should carry out a treatment of all asylum cases in Norway. If it is that people come from a country that is perceived as a safe country, we do not initially have an obligation to deal with those applications. It was the whole concept of the extraordinary law treatment we had in the autumn, and it was to give us the authority to the instructions we have now given on handling matters from Russia. Our starting point is that persons who have received a visa, including a transit visa to travel through Russia, are responsible for the asylum treatment of Russia. In that case, Norway does not carry out the asylum procedure as such. We had extensive reviews of the international law expertise both in the U.D., in the Prime Minister's office and elsewhere, that is what is in line with the Refugee Convention. Had it been a person who claimed to be persecuted by the Russian authorities, or in Russia as such, the situation would have been different. But what we're doing now is implementing what makes us controlled by Storskog, that is to say to the Russians that, as signatories to the European Convention on Human Rights, as a member of the Council of Europe, they are to treat asylum seekers from countries to which they have given transit and visas in order to enter. It's their responsibility. Had we not done so, we would have had to deal with almost all of the issues in Norway. That's why we're consistent with this. So the Russians have agreed to take back those who have a more permanent visa, more entry visas. We are now dealing with Russia in the discussion if they will also take back the others with transit visas. But it was the concept that was put before the Storting, that we should return to Russian asylum treatment, because it was the first country they went to, out of a war zone, and it is quite crucial that we have the situation we are going to have in Storskog. If the Russians do not take them back and treat them, we must go into treatment and possibly return to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e195	I would like to thank you for your answer, but I didn't get a clear answer as to whether we now did not break Norway's international obligations and the Refugee Convention. That's why I repeat that question. I would remind you that Belgium was convicted in EMD because it returned asylum seekers to Greece. They were convicted because they should or should not know that Greece was not going to process the individual's application. In the proposition given to the Storting by the government, a particular concern is that there must be a process in a third country. Therefore, we must be sure that there exists – in order to use the government’s own words – ‘sufficient procedural guarantees’, which ensure that this is complied with in Russia. It is a paradox about refugees fleeing the Mediterranean from Syria, being allowed to have their application dealt with here, while those who use Russia as a transit route do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e202	Firstly, we have used what is commonly perceived as Norway's leading international jurisdictional environment, the U.D., the Public Prosecutor and others working on these matters, in the work on these rules, and we believe that they are within. Yes, in some areas we are prepared that there may be a discussion as to whether Russia treats or not properly deals with the asylum process. But then we have to evaluate these. If we're always going to make those demands, and that we don't think other countries have enough treatment until we've seen what they're doing at all, and then we're going to say that everyone can come here, there's an intuition that more and more people are coming. There's a big difference between someone giving people a transit visa and people moving up to our country. It makes that a difference. Nor do we know where they have been — which countries they have been in. We don't have any evidence of that. They're not registered. In fact, Serbia is the only country in Europe that operates systematically before they possibly get here, and it's not necessarily a country we're going to return refugees to because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e209	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir S. Tuskedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e212	The Christian People's Party has contributed to a new and necessary practice at the Great Forest Crossing. It was necessary, and we're happy that we made a broad deal about it. However, the Council of State Listhaug has recently answered a question from Helga Pedersen where it emerges that asylum applications should be dealt with if there are concrete points of view that a return to Russia would be contrary to human rights obligations, and that was one of the conditions we had – i.e. not to third countries, but back to Russia. Today, in an NTB case, the Red Cross says that this is not true, and that everyone is going out without that treatment of reality. Can the Prime Minister clarify what is really in the instructions, and what is the matter, so that the Storting is not misinformed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e219	In the oral question procedure, there are certain rules which mean that one cannot necessarily be as exact in all areas without having a legal text in front of it. But I would like to stress that if there are concrete points of view that you are actually persecuted in Russia, it will be the case that you have to deal with the matter here. Norwegian policy now is that we perceive Russia as a safe third country, to which the first country people come. That is why we have control of Storskog, which is the basis for this action, and I believe that this has also been a very clear and clear signal, both from the government to the Storktingen during the treatment in the autumn and in the response from Stortingen that we should do so in order to get control of this. If not, it will be very difficult to deal with the other issues as well. Then we will be sitting and dealing with Afghanistan matters, that is, all the matters for those who have come to Norway – for where should we put the distinction if we believe that Russia does not have proper asylum treatment at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e224	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e227	When the flow of refugees started over Storskog in the fall, the government was unusually late to get on the track with the necessary measures. It was in fact finally the Storting that had to almost instruct the government to do things that it had powers to do already. It is now, nevertheless, through these similarities, fortunately a broad consensus on asylum and immigration policy in Norway – a strict and fair but at the same time humane policy that helps people who are in need but who do not accept those who do not need protection. In his New Year's speech, the Prime Minister spoke about everyday integration and that most people and businesses have a great responsibility for it. The Labour Party fully agrees. But the government also has a responsibility to integrate those who actually stay in Norway, and there will also be a good number of people. And with record unemployment, my question is: When will the measures succeed in that part of the policy, which is also incredibly important?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e234	The representative Trond Giske has a very imaginative sense of reality. We promoted extraordinary measures that no one on Stortinget had taken up at all, and we did it because that was the way we could legally do it. We followed up in cooperation, and we had good consultation on the way with all parties on the strategy for how we should work in relation to Russia – systematically, structured – because it is also our main security policy frontier. That the Workers' Party is trying on another story of history, I think I say something about the lack of real-life contact with what is going on in Norwegian politics, if you think it was the picture. In terms of everyday integration, it is important. That means first of all what we can all do privately, and that's important to say. In our society, it's not just the state that integrates, not just institutions, but every one of us does it in everyday life. In line with what we said in the supplementary proposition, there comes a separate message to Stortinget. It comes in parallel with the revised national budget, and then we're going to sign out on all the different proposals that Stortinget has asked us to sign out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e243	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e247	I'm going to stick to the original question, but I'm also going to deal a little bit with the concept of the previous question, ‘fantasi’. The majority agreed that those who had stayed in Russia for a long time were to be returned to Russia, but we have also said that we should stick to international conventions. We have a neighbouring country in the east – the Prime Minister may be able to tell us how many people have been asylumed in that country in recent years and how. treat sexual minorities as homosexuals, how to treat oppositionals — and this country we should give all the power to assess asylum applications, not to people who have been in Russia for a long time, but to those who have used Russia as a transit. We have seen other European countries — and Norway — say no to return to Greece because we do not have confidence in their asylum system, and we have done so several times. So the question is, can the Prime Minister guarantee that we do not break any international conventions with what the Council of State is now proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e256	We have made thorough assessments of what the Refugee Convention requires of us, and what the European Declaration of Human Rights requires of us in these areas, and we believe that we are well within what we do in relation to Russia. This does not mean that no one can at any time say that Russia is not a safe country for some groups, but as of today, it is not a basis for doing so, and for people persecuted in Russia, it will be possible to deal with their case in Norway. But this goes to the heart of the question: shall we perceive Russia as a first country to which people come, or shall we not? If we don't have to accept all those who have been through the transit, and it's going to be hard to distinguish between different groups. Then we have to deal with matters to everyone from Afghanistan, and we have to deal with matters to everyone from all other countries, and that also means that it becomes more difficult to get back. Otherwise, I forgot to answer a previous question, and I just wanted to say, we have offered a bus. It is not that we believe that people should ride over, but the Russians have for the time being thought that they should come back the same way they came here, but we have offered to drive them by bus to the nearest city.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e265	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e268	These serious issues were the reason SV voted against these legislative changes. It does not help to adopt a principle that it should be in line with international law, when the consequences of the concrete changes are not. There is a great difference between a permanent residence permit, which can be safe, and a tourist visa. The Prime Minister is fully aware of the fundamental principle of international law that we should not send back — that is an absolute ban on sending someone back — which could risk being sent back to persecution via third countries. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that we will not send anyone back to Russia, which is Syrian asylum seekers, who have fled from the military service for Assad, and who will be cannon-born for IS?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e275	We have only just returned people who Russia has agreed to accept, and there are people who are staying in and entering the visa to Russia. Then we are in conversations with Russia based on our belief that they should also take back and process the asylum cases there, and we are, of course, waiting for Russia to respond to those enquiries. Then, of course, we will follow Russian policies in these areas, and we will make assessments as it happens. We cannot foreshadow how Russia will deal with such a matter in all areas, individual matters, and we need to assess the content of individual matters. This could be done, for example, by: is that people don't come from the areas they say they're from. There has to be an individual assessment, but we believe that Russia should make the individual assessment. This is a very fundamental and important principle in the current situation. If not, we do not have control of the influx to Norway. Now we've got control for a period of time. It's also necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e282	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e285	Before Christmas, the European Commission presented proposals to establish an EU Border and Coast Guard Force. The proposal is to have a standing strength of at least 1500 men who, at three days' notice, are to be able to be sent to Schengen countries which do not properly control their borders. And in a crisis situation, the Border and Coast Guard forces can intervene without the approval of the country in question. It has been called the ‘Innovation Clause’. The Financial Times describes what is now being proposed as the greatest transfer of sovereignty since the introduction of the euro. The proposal will also apply to Norway as a Schengen member. Last Wednesday I met with the Icelandic Prime Minister. He was quite clear in his opposition to giving away national self-determination in such an important fundamental question. The Icelandic Prime Minister had a clear view. Does our Prime Minister have a clear position on this important issue of national sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e292	Our very clear starting point is that the nation state should be responsible for its own external border. It is important, and it should work. At the moment, we see from the influxes of refugees that it is not working in some of the countries that are also our outer border to Schengen. Therefore, Norway is currently participating in border force work through Frontex in Italy and Greece. So it's not that there's already a cooperation related to this. It is right that the Commission put forward a proposal for a regulation on the Border and Coast Guard Agency, on further development, and that it should, among other things, shall be possible if a country fails to fully protect its own Schengen external border, that other countries can set up forces there. This is a proposal. It has to be adopted, it has to be discussed, and our starting point is that we have to expect all national states to be able to take responsibility for their own external borders. But what happens if it doesn't happen? Then we are probably going to have to lift the Schengen external border and have a different policy, or introduce something like that. Fearing that Norway would not be able to fulfil and implement its external obligations, I think I am very pessimistic about the Centre Party. I still think that we should be able to deal with both our port external borders and the Schengen border with Norwegian police and control, but the big question is: do we, in time, believe that our external border through Schengen should also be protected? I think that is right, that action can do so. But I think that all the nation states will then think it's nice to get help to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e301	I notice that Prime Minister Erna Solberg does not want to go into the question of principle here. Because that is a very fundamental question, which is completely different from the Frontex cooperation we now have – are we going to empower a common EU force, a border and coastguard force, to enter Norway across national authorities? It's probably not going to happen, but it's a very fundamental question for a state to give such authority to a power that we ourselves are not part of. I'll ask again: what is Erna Solberg's principal attitude? Does the Prime Minister think it is in principle a good thing to give such authority to a new border force, so that they can enter – across the will of the Norwegian authorities? Because that is what is in the proposal, and we have to decide on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e308	My fundamental position is that the nation state is responsible for its own external border. It is part of our Schengen agreement that we are responsible for it and should take it. I also mean that if things break down, there are two options. One is to move the Schengen border, or it is to have an external border where several countries can contribute. My starting point is that it should be in cooperation with that country, just as it is with Frontex and Poseidon operations that we already have in Italy and Greece, where we participate in border and external border controls, but in cooperation with those countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e315	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e319	Some of the question here is that what we're looking at now is going beyond what we've seen in the past, including for Frontex and other options. After all, it is a result of the desperate situation in which some countries feel that one for the Schengen Agreement has gradually entered into, where the Schengen Agreement does not work, where one has a discussion about what might be the alternative, and then looks at the issue of a transnational border force as one possible establishment. That debate is alive in very many countries, but little in Norway. In Norway, we almost have no word change about this. We should have that, related to something like the Financial Times, among other things. sayings may involve the greatest transfer of sovereignty since the introduction of the euro. I feel that the Prime Minister here really says that Norway does not intend to go into it. If that clarification can be interpreted by what the Prime Minister here says, it's very good. But how will the Prime Minister contribute to a debate on this matter before it is decided in the EU during the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e326	I agree that there is a need for a wide-ranging debate on such a measure, and I am far from sure that this regulation – through the consultations that will take place both with Parliament and national states, etc. – will survive in the form it has today. But what also has to be part of the broad debate is: what is the alternative? When Greece is unable to protect its own external border, when they are unable to establish control, even if we offer money – and use of the EEA money that they are not allowed to use anyway – to establish more reception systems, more help to the refugees who are coming, so that we get the hot spots, get registered, have a system at the Schengen borders – what is the alternative? That the same country is being expelled from Schengen? And you also have to think about what are the alternative strategies for this. It is a broad debate that must be welcomed. I haven't concluded. I believe that the starting point is that the nation state is responsible for its own external borders. And these pictures, drawn by some, of German soldiers who are going to take care of the Norwegian border, I would say is a scenario that I don't believe in. I think the Norwegian State is able to protect its own external borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e335	Svein Roald Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e338	The proposals for a common coastguard, i.e. to strengthen external border management through common resources and, if necessary, towards the country where it breaks down – on request or willfully – come out of a situation where there are serious problems in dealing with both the external borders and the consequences of migration. It is clear that for Norway – as a non-EU member and decision-making system, even if we are in Frontex and Schengen – it can have more dramatic implications in principle than for an EU Member State. In the Nordic region, we have had passport freedom and, in fact, a common border since the 1950s. The rest of Europe has come a long time after us. Is the Prime Minister concerned that this development can also stem from this part of Nordic cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e345	There are many alarming signs related to the functioning of the Schengen system. In September, all EU countries actively worked to improve the sharing of refugee-related obligations, to establish better registration systems, and to improve assistance systems. It has happened to a little bit. There are less than 500 people relocated within the relocalisation mechanism. There are a lot of things that aren't yet up and standing, and it's basically undermining. What has happened as an answer to that? What has happened is that we have border control against Germany and Denmark on our ferries, Sweden has border control against Denmark, and Denmark has border control against Germany. We have already seen a consequence in view of the free movement between the Nordic countries because it does not work out there. It's worrying, it's difficult, but we also need to have control of who's coming in. Therefore, it is a challenge if Schengen does not work – also for the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e352	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e355	I think the Prime Minister answers wisely that she has not concluded, but wants to go into the debate in a thorough manner. It is obvious that Europe needs greater solidarity to meet the major challenge, where one sees that some countries assume a very high level of responsibility, while others do not. Similarly, what should we do if a border fails and a country needs help — or, to some extent, does not want help, but it has consequences for other countries? We have to go into that debate. As the Prime Minister pointed out in his previous reply, border controls are already in place between a number of countries. Norway has had border control for almost two months. Lookup last week showed that 10 to 20 persons have been stopped at the border because of this, and the ferry companies and others controlling have stopped 120 out of 140 000 passengers. Border control is important, but does the Prime Minister see that the proportionality here may need to be adjusted somewhat, so that the controls can be carried out in a slightly more flexible way and the resources used in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e362	The border control, as we have it today, should primarily prevent all inflows from coming to us, once others have introduced border controls. And we saw a lot of that. It's going to be a dilemma, because at some point we have to find ways to simplify this and do it differently. It is not possible to measure the effect of the border control just by looking at how many are physically rejected, because it is clear that when the border control was introduced, it was a signal that was sent on. Therefore, it probably has a much greater impact than the actual figures estimate. At the same time, we know that we are then facing major challenges for countries on the other side of the border. Germany, which already has problems in the first place, has even more problems because it is less moving out of Germany and further north. Therefore, it is not sustainable over a long time to have it in the EU, but we are very dependent on getting more community and solidarity related to the treatment of refugees in the EU. That's what's missing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e369	Karin Andersen for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e372	I notice that the Prime Minister does not close such transnational cooperation, and then I need – if you need some basic guidance – to refer to the Constitution on how to deal with such matters. But the practical thing about this is that much of the cooperation between both the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Regulation has collapsed a long time ago. SV has addressed it, but has not received any particular response from the government on how they will react or take initiatives internationally to make this work. One of the obvious major problems is that people are not registered, that they do not have a good registration system to know who is in the Schengen area, and that people do not operate with different identities. It's a big and a legitimate problem, and there's now work going on to put in place different types of biometry. SV has called for iris identification, which is a simple technology, and which could alleviate the big dilemma, namely that there are many inside the area that we do not know who is. What will the government do to speed up this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e381	The government is actively involved in the work done by the EU, both in the area of ID control and in the areas of how we can establish better mechanisms for burden-sharing in the EU area and in the EEA territory, i.e. throughout Schengen cooperation. So it's not like we're not participating in this. We're also concerned about having biometrics in the future, but we have to create a common biometric solution, and it takes a little bit of time. In the meantime, things are happening very quickly in the EU. Right now it seems that very much happens a little bit slowly, because people are afraid to be burdened more. There are many countries in the EU that are not now constructive in the processes that are, because it is more comfortable when there are some countries that need to take the main pressure, such as the United Kingdom. Germany is doing it right now. For us to choose biometry, an important criterion for us will be what we are dealing with the other countries about, but both biometry and several registration systems are part of the solution in the future. The main effects of improvements in the asylum system were among others: when Eurodac was created and we could use fingerprints.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e391	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e394	Local air pollution is harmful to health. It triggers and worsens disease, especially in the respiratory tract and cardiovascular systems. Studies show that in the case of high acute air pollution there is an increased mortality in large cities, and this can cause cancer for a long time. The air in Norwegian cities and European cities has deteriorated in recent years. We have recently had a situation in Bergen where we have again had to resort to date driving, with different results. This is partly because car manufacturers have created an illusion that there is something called ‘pure diesel’, and it is because of a political error for some years that diesel cars were for some reason more environmentally friendly than other cars. We also had a shift in fees in Norway – made by the red-green government – which is a direct cause of the increased air pollution now present in Norwegian cities. When you have made a mistake, you have to do in your other life: you have to correct this error, and we have to implement a lot of measures to get a cleaner car park in Norway. Among other things, the charging systems need to be changed. But now that we have a situation of acute air pollution, cities must also have the right means to combat it. There's one way to do this: you get acute air pollution because it's standing air, and you get a collection, and then the cities have to be able to stop this accumulation before it occurs. A ban on diesel cars is absolutely necessary. Then my question becomes: When does the Prime Minister realize that this new situation of increased air pollution in Norwegian cities will be resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e403	Many of our cities work very actively with this, and the government wants to be a partner for the cities. And I believe that we – both through what the government has done, and through what the Biggest by a large majority has told us to do – have developed more tools to deal with this. This means, among other things: e.g. The mountain will now have the opportunity to significantly increase toll rates at a time when there is a high level of pollution in the city, and that zones – we are at the very end of it – are not able to enter in a few days when there is acute pollution. It takes a little longer if it is to be so long-term that you are not allowed to drive in with certain types of cars. Of course, some of the stories we have behind us, especially the 2007 conversion, have had some side effects. The climate impact, which was an important environmental impact, was taken into account, but the fact that more diesel cars — a significant increase in them — and less CO2 emissions, but more of other types of emissions had a side effect. In particular, NO2 poses major challenges in the future, and it has to do with the transition to significantly more diesel cars at that time. When are we done? In 2014 only Oslo and Bergen had exceedances of some of these values. It's rare we want it to count more in Bergen, but it would have been good with a little rain that could have tied a little bit of the suspended dust right in the last few days and got it washed away. In general, this is a city that has less air pollution than many of the other cities on normal days, but they get these extreme cases because of topography. We have heavy-duty tyres, environmental traffic limits, improved road clean-up, land and transport planning as important instruments, as well as the possibility to regulate on extreme days, such as: The mountain will need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e420	There are many instruments, and cities use them. But the main means of achieving this is to keep heavy transport out of town, ban diesel cars on the most polluted days and have environmental zones, so that local transport of goods can be restricted. It is completely incomprehensible to me that, even from the government parties, you are willing to have a date drive, where you set strong limits on half of the cars, but will not have targeted restrictions on the use of a diesel vehicle, which is proven to have a direct effect. But Stortinget has done an important job. The size has decided that we should set environmental standards for taxis, we have decided that we should have low-emission zones, environmental zones. We have asked for an investigation into the ban on certain types of fuel, to limit the use of cars on national roads during periods when there is high air pollution. There are many decisions in Stortingen, but no one has yet come back and become a direct instrument that can be used by cities. When will the government bring these matters forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e427	We have a wide range of measures that are being worked on. Among other things, when it comes to the de-icing of ships, we have received a legal statement that it is permissible to do so. It assumes that an impact analysis has also been carried out of announcing ships with regard to local pollution. We also have an investigation of the impact at more national level, which will be completed on 15 March 2016. We are working on environmental differentiation in the AutoPASS system, but it is probably not finished until early 2017. I think I have to answer in writing about these individual measures. But we have a plan that, among other things, shall follow up all the decisions taken by the Storting. As regards environmental protection requirements and public procurement of vehicles, the consultation has ended in the autumn of 2015 and the government is right in front of drawing its conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e436	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e439	Minister of State, Bergen. I can't, like her, call Bergen my hometown, but I can strongly say it's my city – a town I'm happy with. For this reason, I am naturally engaged and concerned that another cold period is going on, with urban air that creates major health problems for ibuars and guests in the city. Of course, I have also read with great interest the letter that the Prime Minister has sent to the municipality of Bergen, where she writes that the municipality has many tools to use, and that those who are missing can apply to the state for help. Between the lines I read that it is almost automatic that the applications are met. However, when the Prime Minister – naturally and understandably – has such confidence in his town children that the measures they are looking for, almost in any case, are accepted, it is difficult to understand that one does not take the step fully and gives Bergen and other cities the power to decide for themselves what action to take. What is the point of wasting time on unnecessary bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e448	First of all, I mean that people who don't live in or come from Bergen are very allowed to be happy in Bergen. I think everyone should be, even though patriotism hardly gets as high as the mountain people normally have. We've been trying to find flexible solutions that can work right away. In the case of several of these measures, it is possible, where there is an increase in concentration, to introduce temporary regulation. But the law houses and the apparatus for that kind of thing are such that a regulation has to be made in the Ministry of Transport on how this is to be regulated. It's the law of the day. Creating a new law requires a little longer time. But e.g. in the case of emissions zones, it is among the things we work on – whether you can have more permanent or more regulated conditions around it. To this end, decentralise to the municipalities: one of the reasons why some of these regulations are attached to the Ministry of Transport is that it is not just municipal roads. It is also about roads at state level and at other levels. It is to have good cooperation that it belongs to the Ministry of Transport. But as we have said in letters, we are prepared to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e457	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e460	I will admit that I am also happy in Bergen. Now there's an acute situation in Bergen, and there's a lot of discussion about the short-term effect of air pollution, which too many people are simply deadly. But the most serious thing is the long-term effect of breathing in the air day after day, which is a major health problem. On 17 March last, Stortinget decided that municipalities should be able to limit the use of cars on national roads during periods of high air pollution. This happened against the voices of the Right Party and the Advance Party, but the rest of the Stortinget luckily managed to gather. On the same day, it was also decided that municipalities should be able to establish low-emission zones. Now it's almost a year, and it's very little that's happened. That is why the Labour Party has proposed a new proposal to be discussed in the Stortinget. Now this government has been sitting for over two years. In her first reply, the Prime Minister pointed out something that can happen at the earliest in 2017, as she said. My question is: What initiatives has this government taken that have already worked – as the government itself has taken, which has not come as a result of the cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left – that has led to better air quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e469	The government often works with a lot of cases, and then the Storting keeps coming and making decisions about the same issues. I think that's just fine, I'm glad the Storting is active. But that doesn't necessarily mean you don't work on the issues. Sometimes the reason is that you also have to have the legal basis, and it takes a little longer. There is no need to exaggerate the disagreement at any of these points, for some of them we agree, and some points were already in the Sunvolden Declaration, in matters that we worked with. It is now the case that in periods of high air pollution regulations will be laid down – when you come up with the regulatory proposals from the municipalities to the Ministry of Transport, a temporary regulation will be laid down. It's about in place. So there's no need to make any new decisions, because I think it'll be ready and able to use during this winter. For low-emission zones: if it is to be permanent low-emission zones and not just acute, it takes a little longer. That's because there's another change in the law. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e479	Then there's no more time here. Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e484	As a southerner I can probably limit my tribute to Bergen, although it is a great city. I'd rather be fascinated by mountainers and registered that the Prime Minister had a wish for more rain. If that's what the Prime Minister wants, I'd like to convey the prayer further and contribute to it. I think it has to be stronger lye and more important measures to do. What we haven't talked about today is what we can do to prevent the boats from releasing as much as they do, for example. that they can get power from land. I think the people find it hard to understand that they have to leave the car – we talked about unemployment and challenges in the oil industry instead – when, for example. there are five supply boats in Kristiansand which together emit as much as 6000 cars. It would have been a lot better if we had a land flow. We have a budgetary settlement that says that, among other things, Enova will receive more support. It is an important tool to provide support for the establishment of shore-side electricity. But will the government press, so that there will be more land flow around the ports to bring down emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e493	I perceive that one in several of the ports is now working a lot to get more shore power, but it also has something to do with capacity on some points. It has to do with net-in, and it has to do with capacity. We might have to think untraditionally and in new ways about this. There's a part that also thinks about completely new battery solutions related to this kind of thing, and not just lifting up, because the days it's cold and it gets potted, are also the days it's used a lot of power for the rest of it. And then we get very high peaks. What we're doing, for example. see in Oslo, is that through the cooperation of the Municipality of Oslo and Oslo Harbour, power is now delivered to the regular part that cruise traffic is here. In particular, it's one of the ferry companies, I don't remember which, where the ferries are now running on the current all the time. I think the answer is that we need power, but we might also need some other solutions, which are more mobile and flexible in some areas. Then there is also work to do on the possibility of moving boats. As I said, we have clarified the legal basis for this. In Bergen there is no port of unloading to place them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e504	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e507	In my backyard there lives a boy who struggles with air pollution every winter, not only in the days of most pollution, but throughout the winter. It is the steady, long-term pollution that is most harmful. The problem is that we have a Minister of Transport who says clearly that he believes the municipalities have the measures they need to do something about this, and that many of the measures the Stortinget has adopted are difficult. He trains these measures. While the Right-wing Representatives and the Right-wing Town Council both in Oslo and in Bergen have clearly said that they want low-carbon zones, diesel bans, environmental differentiation and several maximum limits, the Minister of Transport is training this. Then my question is: how long has the Prime Minister planned to allow the Prime Minister of the Progressive Party to practise the absolutely necessary steps that the Right People of Oslo and Bergen want, but which the FrP are against?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e516	I think I would like to reply by saying that I am going to send to Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås the letter of reply I have given to the mayor of Bergen, who is just listing that all of these measures can now be proposed and implemented through their own rules. There is no training from the Ministry of Transport. Sometimes it's a good idea that someone's asking some counter-questioning questions. For example, all the measures I think was mentioned are possible to use during this winter in the case of acute contamination. And then we have some a little bit longer investigations about how we're going to work on the longer term. The most important thing we have there is how we make sure that the car park emits less in the future, and how we ensure that we build land-based and secure residential areas against pollution that happens. Therefore, long-term spatial planning is perhaps one of the most important things. I have a lot of understanding that this is a big challenge, because I have a lot of asthmatics in my family, and that's a personal reason I never bought a diesel car.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e523	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e526	In our common hometown there are a lot of stories about how air pollution affects the lives of ordinary people, and we are getting more and more such descriptions from other Norwegian cities with poor air. We know that children and people with asthma suffer when the pollution is high, when the air is hazardous to health. Now we have a new winter with a critical situation in several cities. Last weekend the toxin lid was again over Bergen, and we have had critically high air pollution in Stavanger, Oslo, Bærum, Tromsø and Lillehammer on days this winter. This is bad news for families with young children, for pregnant women, for people with heart and lung diseases – and for most who like to travel in the city. I believe that this is the basis for saying that the government is training important work for clean and safe air instead of demonstrating its power of action. Some examples of this are: work on increasing the one-off charge for cars with dangerous local emissions — it has been announced many times, it is happening very little — work on allowing Bergen and Oslo to implement the measures the local city councils are now asking for, in order to deal with pollution as quickly as possible, to follow up the Storting's wish to limit national car use and, not least, the request to set up low-carbon zones, which was adopted in Stortinget on 17 March last year, i.e. 10 months ago. The government has shown great ingenuity and action in the last few months in dealing quickly with other legislative proposals of major importance to this government. My question is simple: Why has Erna Solberg not made sure that the code for low-emission zones came into place so quickly that it could have an impact this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e535	It is now possible to use the Code for low-emission zones in acute pollution situations. That's what we've also said to Schjelderup, that if you send a letter, you'll set a rule for how to do it on the emergency days. The more permanent is a major intervention, and then we also have to look at the consequences of it. We also have investigative obligations and responsibilities, and it is to assess the impact this will have on different parts of the economy, on different parts of urban functions. That is why we have said that it is possible to have low-emission zones in periods – and then the solutions come. I feel that the questions that are now being asked about doing something about acute pollution in cities have been answered positively by the government. We have also informed about this, and now it is up to cities to make proposals on how they will regulate in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e542	It's a little worrying, I think, that the government seems so pleased with itself in the situation we're in. We needed a government that followed up the changes the Storting has asked for in terms of car charges, to do something long-term with air pollution, and we had needed a government that had more clearly and previously entered into dialogue with the cities to get action in place for this winter. In the case of a permanent code for low-emission zones, it is too late to put it in place for this winter. I fully agree that the government has an investigation obligation, but very much can be done in ten months. Erna Solberg proved last fall that she is able to do much in a few weeks. It's just that the government's commitment to what's urgent and perceived as acute is selective, and air pollution has obviously fallen outside. Can the Prime Minister promise us that we will have the legislation promoted in the Storting to spring, so that it will be ready next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e551	I can't promise a time frame for when we bring it permanently, and there's something else – I want to stress – than what is acute contamination. The acute pollution is why we can deal with it this winter. We have had good dialogue with the city councils that were, both in Bergen and Oslo, so it is possible to use, and we have written that in the letter to Schjelderup. A long-term low-emission zone means that one shall prohibit certain types of cars from driving in certain zones. It is very important for the transport of goods, it is very important for people to replace cars. So there have to be some proper assessments of it and how to do it. And it has a long-term side by itself. But the short-term — the issues of dense pollution, where concentration is too high — is now, in my view, clarified. I remember that it wasn't this government, but actually the previous government, who was convicted of air quality in the cities during the period they set.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e557	There will be follow-up questions – first Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e560	Let me start by encouraging the Prime Minister to go home and read the EFTA judgment again, because it is not the previous government that was convicted. The emissions were correct in the last period, but it was this government that was convicted, because this government was unable to deliver a plan for how to ensure that air pollution is controlled. And that plan still doesn't exist. I just want to stress that this government, that is, the Prime Minister's government, has not made a proposal to increase the one-off charge – for local pollution – on cars, but has been forced by the Stortinget to increase it in every single budget. Finally, I do not understand that the cities are aware that they now have an opportunity to introduce low-carbon zones on acutely polluting days. Does this mean that if the municipality of Oslo and the municipality of Bergen present such a plan, does the Prime Minister guarantee that she will say yes to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e569	What we have written in a letter to the mayor of Bergen, in answer to the question, is that they can make a plan for this, and there will be a special regulation by the Ministry of Transport, with the requirements that are then set. And we believe that it should be up to the municipality to make it. I just want to underline one thing, and that's that we have a job with the Green Tax Commission. The one-off charges and the car charges come to a broad discussion in this context, and that is what we have always taken into account in the government's work. This is because some of the things that have been challenging are that when you piece by piece make changes in the fees all the time, you don't get the right effects. When you liberalize one year, so that diesel cars get much cheaper and everyone buys diesel cars, and next year the diesel tax increases dramatically, it creates very little predictability for a large investment that the family makes. It was the red-green recipe – to patch in their own way and try to make changes to the car tax system. We wanted from the government to see this in its entirety. That's why we come up with whole, common solutions. We've been negotiating with four parties about the car charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e576	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e579	In my previous question, I asked if the Prime Minister could refer to the initiative this government has taken on an independent basis to do something about air quality. I cannot interpret the answer differently than that it is no, the Prime Minister could not refer to an initiative that she or the government has taken. On the other hand, those who have taken the initiative are the local politicians, among others. in Bergen and Oslo. When the new City Council in Oslo said that they wanted to make the city center car free as one of many measures to do something about air quality, Tine Sundtoft was the only one who voted on the right side, who said this was positive. The rest of the government college used very big words. The new Minister of Culture thought this was like a new Berlin wall. Finance Minister Siv Jensen thought this was like waking up to a ‘bad nightmare’ and that that policy was going to lead to people resuming. I'm not going to ask the Prime Minister how this government thinks people are going to take back politicians who are going to do something about air quality. What I'm going to ask the Prime Minister, on the other hand, is whether she agrees with her government colleagues in this massive resistance to the local proposals, or whether she is positive that local authorities want to do something about air quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e586	It is true that very many of the local politicians who have promoted many of these proposals are, in fact, right-wing politicians. It is not the case that the whole of Oslo – with the exception of the core – should be completely car-free. Now I have come to understand that there have been many adjustments to that proposal, so we see what the final outcome is, but there are many of the regulations that Stortinget has subsequently adopted, which have been proposed by the City Council in Oslo, proposed by the City Council in Bergen, which has been adopted at the National Council of the Right, and which the government has been working on at that time, which is being followed up. So I think there's been a lot of good right-wing initiatives for many of these. So one might say that the government spends a little longer time than a resolution committee at a Right Country Meeting does when it comes to a proposal here, because we have an investigation obligation, which makes it take a little longer. We also have to look at the consequences of the regulations we make. Doing everything piece by piece means that it's hard for people to adapt. We have some good examples from the red-green time on it, for example. linked to biodiesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e593	Marit Arnstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e596	I have been sitting and listening to this debate, and I think it is a little remarkable. On the one hand, the Prime Minister is probably right in saying that many of the cities already have a lot of the tools, and sometimes they use them as a means of pressuring governments. On the other hand, those who have spoken here have just said that the Stortinget has not come running after the government, but that the Stortinget has made clear decisions that we are today sitting waiting for the government to follow up. And we've waited a long time for that – eventually. Then winter appears as a sort of note exchange between government and the big cities. It's kind of unworthy of it. My question to the Prime Minister is: Shouldn't the government now sit down with the largest cities and agree, both on the description of reality, on the facts of what kind of instruments you have, and also on the measures that you should take – and should not the Prime Minister take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e603	The Minister of Transport has already taken the initiative, as he has come to understand that it is not that everyone has brought with him the messages, which have also been given earlier, on which instruments will be possible. That's why he has, among other things, invited Bergen City Council to visit to discuss how to find out good regulations for the city air there. We can probably include more in this. There have been meetings and information related to these questions, and all these issues are not new. Some themes have also been up in the past. Some themes were probably also up from the Vegvesen side of the past period, and it was then stopped by the then Minister of Transport – as far as I can remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e610	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e613	In 2013, the Right and Advance Party took over a Norway that was stronger economically than ever before. Under the red-green government, we had a record big conversion. There were 360 000 more jobs created, most of them in the private sector. We had been through the financial crisis with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Under Erna Solberg, Norway is losing that position. According to the government’s own figures, Norway will have more unemployed in 2016 than Norway has ever experienced before. The Right Party and the Progress Party are losing the fight against unemployment. In the new year, the Prime Minister said that ‘conversion is faster’ than expected. But notice that the Prime Minister systematically uses the word ‘conversion’ when she is really talking about unemployment. The shift is getting bigger than expected, she says, when it's really the unemployment that gets much bigger than expected. Changeover is something quite different than people losing their jobs. Conversion is that new jobs are created, and that people get into new jobs. This conversion does not go any faster, it goes slower – in some places it has actually stopped completely up. Unemployment is not a conversion. Unemployment is an animal and unwise method of trying to make a change. We lose enormous values when people go to social security instead of contributing to the creation of wealth, and the risk of falling permanently out of work doubles when people become unemployed. We have to have a hard time, says Solberg, but Unio, who organizes teachers, nurses and policemen, says that the government is adding up to a general effort to get the richest to the promised taxet. Why does the Prime Minister think that a recipe with large tax credits for the richest, increased differences, sales of state companies and cuts in people's purchasing power are the instruments to help against unemployment in Norway, when it does not help in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e627	I am always fascinated by the reality of Trond Giske. It might be nice to hear what Gerd Kristiansen, LO's leader, said on 7 January, to nuance a little perspective on the picture. She said that since the financial crisis, Norway has created fewer jobs each year than we need, so we are now in deficit of 150 000. The leader of the LO said that on 7 January. And that's right: we had a huge growth in the number of jobs up to the financial crisis, and it was a great upswing for the whole of Europe that started in 2004 and was therefore torpedoed. Then we got better through the financial crisis. However, since then, employment in Norway, the proportion that has been employed, has been slightly lower each year, because it has become slightly more than the number that we have been able to employ. It might be a more realistic picture of what we took over. The second picture is the speech given by the Governor in the winter of 2013/2014 and that Norway ‘gos from specialty to conversion’. He said that in the years behind us, in the last decades, the main reason for the growth of the Norwegian economy has been exceptionally high prices of the goods we have sold, especially in the oil and gas sectors. It is not the result of a violent forward-looking policy. In fact, it is a problem that Norway became more and more oil dependent in those years, not because of the use of oil money, but because we had too little incentive for the other parts of the Norwegian economy, for example. on the tax side, which contributed to more jobs in the future. Therefore, a stronger ceiling is needed for research and development, more innovation and more innovation in the future, to create the new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e634	Note that the Prime Minister's answer, almost two minutes long, is not talking about what's going on to solve the unemployment problem. She only finds excuses for why the unemployment has become so great. There are measures to combat unemployment – good ideas and new solutions. But the government says no. Business leaders are ready to generate growth if the permitting rules allow them to retain the competence of businesses, but the Right Party and the Advance Party say no. The companies are ready to transfer technology from the oil industry to new industries if well arranged, but the Right and Advance Party say no. Entrepreneurs are ready to build hospitals and schools and to accelerate investment and maintenance, but the Right and Advance Party say no. The municipalities are ready to turn people into schools and care for the elderly, with welfare tasks we need, but the Right Party and the Advance Party say no. And universities and colleges are ready to accept thousands of young unemployed people and give them new knowledge and skills, but the Right and Advance Party say no. Instead, we heard that it was fantasy that the government was late on the path of the asylum application – and the high increase that came as a result. Is it also fantasy that we now have 130 000 unemployed, as a result of the government's lack of action against unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e643	There is no imagination that there are 130 000 unemployed, and that is a very difficult situation for those who are unemployed. Not least it's hard for many more of them. It had really demanded a more worthy debate than the Trond Giske adds. It would have required that we take seriously what's the challenge, and that's that we have to create a lot of new, profitable jobs, and then at the same time we're going to do activity to keep people active. So that's what we put out 4 billion. kr in a package of measures. Much of it was for maintenance, precisely because it was requested, and now we roll out the different projects. They are put up for tender. And it's a little strange that the Workers' Party, which on August 20 said 2.5 billion. NOK was what you were going to use in a package of measures, I thought we were too little late. That's what they put in the budget for next year, they said at the time. When we got 4 billion. kr at the top of an expansive budget, they said we had to have room in the future for greater unemployment. They continue to say that it is too little too late. It's actually so that every round now we've added up to more activity than the Workers' Party has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e650	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e653	Unsafe times require safe leadership. The uncertain low oil price situation is affecting more and more workers along the coast. I have noticed that the Prime Minister has been invited by the rapporteur in Stavanger to take a trip there to see what the situation is there. I also recommend the Prime Minister to come up further along the coast, all the way up to More and Romesdal, and I suspect that she will be there soon. In this context, it is also important to meet the business community, in order to arrive at reliable measures and to understand the situation as best as possible, for the industry concerned, to demand short-term measures, including the legislation on permitting. The Prime Minister has so far referred to legitimized as locked-in working capital. But the reality is that a wait-and-see attitude from the Prime Minister excludes working capital because more people lose their jobs, businesses lose key skills and arrows point back up. How high does unemployment have to be before the Prime Minister tackles just this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e660	I can promise that I have never mentioned people as working capital. That quote is what the representative is trying to find out. I've never done that. I know that people are people, that people who are out of work experience difficulties, and that it's challenging. And that's challenging for everyone around, because it's challenging with a lot of that uncertainty. Therefore, it is important that we find good and targeted measures that create the new jobs and create the activity. That is why there are two objectives with the budget that we have now entered into this year. One is to contribute to increased activity. That is why it was an expansive budget. That's why we used more oil money. We contribute more activity, both on the maintenance side and on the innovation and entrepreneurial side, and actions such as: stimulate the maritime industry, in order to contribute to the development of the green shift. In addition, we do a lot with what's the long-term conversion, because that's what's the key in the future. We have to create the new jobs and get more legs to stand on. There are, among other things: making a good tax reform incredibly important. I hope that the Workers' Party will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e669	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e672	In the construction sector, in particular, there are challenges. Permit alerts become notices. I had a meeting with the big entrepreneurs in Rogaland, Risa and Stangeland. They also talked about the package of measures, but they saw that much of the package of measures was just talking, and that it was gone. They felt it as a fantasy. Among other things, grants for municipal construction had disappeared in the process. One hears a Minister of Transport who uses very large words, but when the same contractors turn against the public tender database, Doffin, there is no project in Rogaland. If you're going to have people at work, you need a job. When do the missions come, and when do you just end up talking?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e679	It's incredibly important to get the projects out early. One of the things we saw in the measures taken in the field of public maintenance and major projects in the context of the financial crisis was that the projects actually came so late that they did not affect the most acute situation. In fact, some did not realize either. That's why this is important, and that's what the government has learned from. That's why we're taking care of it. We have asked for information on when the different measures come and where they are in the phase, but there is therefore a call for tenders to be made. Tenders are subsequently placed on the various parts of the maintenance tasks. But they have to be done and put out, and then they get into activity. I promise that the government has a great deal of pressure on the very thing to follow. So we turn more of our ordinary activity over to the different levels, that is. that we need to have more of the kind of things that were not in the package itself, but that are normal maintenance, and we need to give priority to those areas with the highest availability in the tenders currently being put out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e691	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e703	There will be one change in the set-up question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in that context. The proposed amendment is proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 2, by Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e716	‘In the Minister of Finance’s answer to written question No. 1480 and written question No 19 from the representatives of Elvesuen and Grövan, respectively, on the Volkswagen Group’s manipulation of software that produces lower NOx emissions in tests, she called this ‘regular fraud on the part of the group’, and wrote that studies were in place to assess whether there were grounds for recalculation of car charges with NOx component. [[2014-2015]] [[2015-2016]] What is the status of this work, and is it appropriate for Norway to demand replacement of the group for deliberately cheating on the basis of which the car models concerned are charged?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e723	Let me first take the opportunity to wish Stortinget a really good new year. It is correct, as the representative, Mr Bøhler, points out, that I have explained this in two written replies. As is known, it has been discovered that the Volkswagen group has equipped several of its diesel engines with a special software that makes the cars emit less emissions of, among other things. NOx when the vehicles are tested. This has a side to the Norwegian one-off fee, as NOx emissions are one of the components of the fee. Following information from the company, about 150 000 Norwegian registered cars must be equipped with the relevant software. The basic data used for the calculation of the one-off fee are taken from the motor vehicle register, which is again based on the pan-European type-approval. Any recalculation of the fee shall be subject to modification by the approval authorities of the original approved emission values. It is provisionally premature to decide whether the manipulation should lead to the recalculation of the charge for the vehicles in question, in addition to establishing that it is not appropriate to make each car owner responsible for the charge. In previous answers, I have informed that the road authorities are investigating this side of the case, and that there has been contact between the Customs and Fee Directorate and the State Road Administration to assess whether there is a basis for carrying out further investigations, actions and controls in Norway. The Ministry of Finance has been in contact with the underlying agencies, which informs that this work is still ongoing. They further state that, since the vehicles in question are type-approved in Germany, German approval authorities must consider what is to be done with the type-approval and whether the original emission values are to be changed. The German authorities are doing this, and clarification will, as we are informed, be available relatively soon. The Norwegian authorities are now awaiting the results of the studies in Germany and will address them when they are completed. I can also inform you that the Volkswagen Group announced just before Christmas that there were also irregularities in the measurement of CO2 emissions on several of the company's petrol cars. This case is also now being examined by the German approval authorities. The management of the group has promised by letter to the respective national authorities, including the Norwegian Minister for Finance, to cover any extra payments that the car owners had to receive in their country of origin as a result of any upgrading of the emission values. The group has also asked that no demands be made directly on the car owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e749	I thank you for your answer. Sweden is in much the same situation as Norway in this case. Yesterday, it was informed by the Swedish judicial authorities that the national anti-corruption and fraud group has launched investigations into Volkswagen on serious fraud. So they told us about yesterday. On January 4th, the US Secretary of Justice filed lawsuits on behalf of the United States of America against Volkswagen, demanding billions in damages. What I want to follow up on is: you talk about it being too early to make a decision, you have to find out if there is a basis for recalculation of the fees, based on the motor vehicle register. But should it not be that it is of a different nature if it is a question of fraud – i.e. deliberately cheating, as the Minister of Finance called it in the written answer – that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that there are similar investigations to those that have now been carried out in Sweden, which relate to something other than the recalculation of the tax base?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e758	I do not know about the Swedish authorities' initiative in this area now, but I can investigate and come back to that. I think it's important that we do this in the right order. We are now awaiting, as I said in my previous answer, the assessment by the German approval authorities of this as a basis for further follow-up from the Norwegian side. We intend to do so, of course, without the individual car owner being charged.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e765	I also thank you for that answer and for the fact that the Minister of Finance will follow up on what is happening in other countries, to see if there are any leads Norway should also pursue. I would like to stress that there is a difference in the case of deliberately cheating, i.e. the installation of equipment to manipulate the test stations – called “sneeze software” in other countries – where NOx emissions become really 40 times less than they are when using these cars. This applies to 150000 Norwegian vehicles. I fully agree that it should not affect those who have bought the cars, and that it is the Volkswagen group that has to be held responsible. But I think it's very important to distinguish between a technical readjustment of the tax base on the basis of things you find in Germany, and arresting or going about deliberately cheating, manipulation, which can be crime, as the Swedish authorities and the US authorities are now plotting to persecute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e775	I fully agree with the representative of Bohemia. I don't see it as there's a big political disagreement here at home about how we're going to tackle this. It's important to see it from different sides, and I agree that there's a difference between whether it's deliberately cheating or a technical error.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e791	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e798	‘National Health and Hospital Plans propose that several local hospitals may lose surgical vigilance, cf. Nordfjord Hospital. Many are concerned that a reduction in the professional environment makes it difficult to recruit professionals. In the class fight on November 25, 2015, the medical officer writes that Nordfjord relies a lot on foreign temporary doctors, and that the anaesthetics are reduced to one doctor on duty around the clock for seven days at a time. Is it such recruitment and preparedness that the Council of State looks after other local hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e805	Many health professionals have learned that it may be difficult to recruit health professionals if they do not have enough work in their field of competence, especially if the activity does not provide a basis for maintaining and developing their own competences. According to Health West, the problem is greatest in disciplines with modest activity and much less in areas with greater and growing activity. For the smallest hospitals, modest areas of activity will often be associated with surgery, especially major interventions, while internal medicine and the supply of chronically ill people will increase. Health West states that anaesthetic action at Nordfjord Hospital must ensure the quality of the acute internal medicine before any transfer. This is an emergency facility where the anaesthetist is critical in acute situations, which occur rarely and at irregular intervals. The anesthesiologist may also assist in day surgery. Since the anaesthetist will have moderate tasks in his/her emergency function, long periods of watch are not only reasonable but also desirable. At Nordfjord Hospital, the anaesthesiologist is always on guard with anaesthetic or intensive nurse. In a small hospital with such a system, anaesthetics may be more readily available than in large hospitals, where distance and cohabitation conflicts may be a problem. Health West therefore considers this to be a very satisfactory emergency preparedness system for acute internal medicine. A development in which the smallest hospitals operate planned surgery and stabilise and increase efforts in the field of internal medicine and chronic disorders may help to reduce the problem of let-in and poor continuity, because a liquidator is active where the recruitment problems are high, and continues and strengthens services where there is a basis for significant activity. Combined with work in teams with a larger hospital, this can provide a good basis for stable professional environments locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e820	Now, the so-called Nordfjord model used by the Council of State as a model for the rest of Sjukehus-Noreg, and it's interesting to look closer to Nordfjord. How an actual recruiter in Nordfjord Hospital is not mentioned in the National Health and Sickness Plan. It is not mentioned that one doctor’s anaesthetics cost $4.5 million. kr a year, as the Council of State itself has said in an answer to written questions. When the Council of State uses a lack of recruitment to change the offer and cut emergency surgery, it's quite incomprehensible for me to defend the difficult recruitment of anaesthetics to hospitals without emergency surgery. So I ask again, does the Council of State mean that this is a model to apply to the corresponding hospital in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e827	The model of the local hospital of the future, which is now in operation at Nordfjord Hospital and has been there for several years, is a model developed by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Government, just as a model to ensure that one can also have the smaller hospitals in the future. I believe that the experience from that model is very good, but fortunately it is not just me who believes it. The rapporteurs in the municipalities who have the model also believe that the user committee in Health Förde, which is very clear that they are satisfied with the model they have found in Sogn and Fjordane, and that is also the opinion, as I experience it, among the leading professionals in Nordfjord Hospital. The recruitment challenges that the representative addresses are precisely one of the reasons why we need to have a clearer division of tasks between hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e834	The Council of State says that the experience is good. Then I thought it important to remember that Norwegian anaesthesiological association in the last journal of the superiors wrote clearly that they ‘would advise against establishing hospitals with emergency services in internal medicine without emergency surgery’. They indicate that Sweden has been doing this all 15 years ago, and they are currently having serious problems recruiting solids, and the quality of the whole business has fallen. Now the state council would like to refer to spokesmen and users where the option at Nordfjord was that they lost the whole hospital, which we in government did at least something better. But I want to ask you again, how can the Council of State look away from the professional advice of, for example, Norwegian Anaesthesiological Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e841	As I was in my post, the safest basis for recruitment is that the professionals get a high level of activity in their subject areas. Therefore, it is quite true that an alternative to this model would have been to have fewer hospitals in Norway, where all hospitals had a high level of activity in all disciplines and fields of competence. But the price one had to have paid for such a solution that the representative now really argues for would have been that the patients who became more of them in the years to come, namely older people living in the districts, had received a worse offer and a longer journey to the hospitals. All models have their advantages and disadvantages, but we have to set the same quality requirements for all hospitals, regardless of size, and proximity is also a quality. Therefore, it is important to open up models that ensure good emergency medical preparedness also in the smaller hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e852	‘The government has promoted a national health and hospital plan with two ‘scenarios’ for the development of emergency preparedness in hospitals. The Council of State has repeatedly clarified in the media that it is up to health care establishments to decide whether to develop or remove the emergency surgical offer in hospitals. After visiting several hospitals concerned, the Council of State continues to insist that health establishments and not the Stortingen should decide where emergency surgery is going to take place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e859	The National Health and Hospital Plan invites Stortinget to adhere to principles of better task-sharing and collaboration between hospitals, as outlined in the hospital plan. One of the principles is that significant changes in the division of tasks between hospitals need to be clarified in local processes where municipalities also need to be heard and involved. The government assumes that the health regions and health businesses are reviewing their plans in line with the leadership resulting from the Storting’s treatment of the national health and hospital plan. A national guide shall be drawn up on how health-care providers are to work on development plans, in order to ensure that changes to their activities are made in line with national leadership. It is clarified that the government will ‘provide that regional health establishments and health establishments base their planned work on the principles of division of tasks and cooperation between hospitals’. The scenarios for each hospital are designed to illustrate how emergency services can be developed, given two sets of assumptions. One scenario shows how the emergency response can be developed if government proposals for principles are taken into account, the other scenario shows how the emergency response can be if one assumes that all emergency hospitals should also have daily preparedness for internal medicine, general surgery and anaesthesia in the future. It is clarified that the final decisions on emergency services at individual hospitals are to be taken after development plans have been drawn up in healthcare establishments and regional health establishments. It is emphasised that good local processes are an important premise in the work on development plans. Of course, I agree with the proposal of the hospital plan, which is not to invite the Stortinget to decide how emergency preparedness should be organised in the individual hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e871	I understand that the Council of State's answer now is that he stands firm on the scenarios, the Council of State stands firm on the fact that the Storting will take a decision on the scenarios. The size should decide whether to follow the one or the other principal scenario, because if the size does not address one or the other scenario – which has been considered by the Council of State as essential to clarify – it will be very difficult for regional health businesses and health businesses to see how to act, because they will act according to the will of the Council of State, and the Council of State will act according to the will of the Grand Duchy. So my question is, isn't the Storting going to decide on the principle approach that the Council of State has set up, which scenario should be chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e878	It sounds as if the representative did not hear my previous reply. Scenarios are scenarios to illustrate what principles can mean in practice. These are the principles of the Storting. The scenarios have been presented to allow the Stortinge to see what might be a future consequence of the different principles, and the scenarios show very clearly that the principles to which the government invites the Stortinge to join are those that provide the most decentralised hospital structure in Norway. As regards the decisions on the supply of the individual hospital, these have to be made according to local processes. It is those who are responsible locally who have to take the final decisions. In my opinion, this is not a decision that Stortinget has a basis for taking, simply because you do not know the whole facts. Local assessments must be made and can only be made locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e885	I try to follow very closely and understand what is the content of what the Council of State says. I have understood that the whole purpose of the national health and hospital plan is to create predictability: predictability in the flock responsible for hospital and health policy in Norway, predictability in the case of professionals, and predictability in the case of investments in the major questions of principle. The scenarios are questions of putting different principles into practice. Is it not a purpose of the government that the Stortinget decide on the principles of a local hospital also to have emergency surgery or not? If the Council of State believes that this is a question of secondary importance, some of the basis for the big discussion we have had falls away. But I thought that in reverence was not the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e890	The size has been invited through the national health and hospital plan to decide on the principles underlying the development of Hospital-Norway. It is quite right, as the representative says, that these principles will provide more predictability for those who are planning and operating our hospitals, for those who work in hospitals, for patients and for the community. Not least, the requirement for good local processes is an important prerequisite for this. These are also principles that are important to ensure sustainability in our hospitals, to equip our hospitals for what is the challenge of the future. A person does not just take on board a current situation, he also looks at the challenges ahead. What will be the consequences of these principles for each hospital will only occur after one has completed the local processes, such as: involves concrete risk and vulnerability analysis related to the division of tasks between hospitals in an area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e899	‘Many young people experience major interruptions in their education due to mononucleosis, or kissing. This disease particularly affects teenagers and young adults, and it may take a long time if you do not take it all to rest. Central parts of the education take place at this age and longer interruptions may have major consequences, including high school drop-outs. Is the Council of State confident that the school and school health services will do enough to prevent long-term absences from young people with this diagnosis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e906	Before I say a little bit more generally, I want to say that I know that a lot of high school students, especially in Russian times, have a lot of attention for kissing. It is very important, among other things. to prevent its spread. It's an important job. It is also important to include the students and not least those of the students who are extra responsible for the Russian era. Of course, students affected by illness or other conditions affecting everyday school life or resulting in absence from school should be taken care of. Schools shall take the necessary measures to meet the individual's needs for appropriate training. In cases where it is not possible to provide training for students at school, other measures, such as: home schooling, evaluation and, if necessary, implementation. The government is taking several steps to care for students who have different health challenges. Health and care services for children and young people are an important area of government activity. The basis for a lifelong good health is laid in childhood. A high-quality health centre and school health service can prevent a lot. Service reaches many and has a high level of legitimacy and population outreach. One of the reasons why the government has increased the free income of the municipality in order to strengthen healthcare and school health services is precisely this. In 2014, revenues increased by 180 million. kr with that justification. In 2015, it was further strengthened by 270 million. kr with the same reason. In 2016, the government granted an additional 200 million. kr through growth in municipal free income, total 667 million. kr to strengthen the health centre and school health service, but which is then through free income. The budgetary agreement between the cooperating parties and the government parties also decided to further strengthen the staffing of health and school health services with a earmarked grant of 100 million. kr. The earmarked funds are introduced as a reward scheme and they could be allocated to municipalities that can demonstrate that the growth in the framework justified by the purpose will be used to strengthen health and school health services. The Health Station Regulation is clear that health centre and school health services should have procedures for cooperation with permanent doctors and other municipal services, etc. It is also important that it contributes to the promotion of a good psychosocial and physical learning environment. It is also relevant here to take on the competence of teachers, including: through a new teacher training course. Our leading adults in school should be able to identify the needs of students and take the necessary measures. I would also like to say in this context that the government has launched something called the Programme for Better Implementation, where we will look at how we can systematically identify what is needed to get the drop-off in high school down and find the measures that work. Close cooperation between the various departments and between the different departments is essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e923	Thank you for a good answer, which in itself is about both mental and physical health in children at school. That's okay enough, but that's really not what I asked. I asked more specifically about this particular disease. I have asked Health Minister Bent Höie about it earlier, and the health page does what can be done when it comes to a virus disease. There's nothing doctors can do to fix this. What I want to do is, I think it's going to be a lot of information and knowledge. For those who have young people in the house – when they go from child to youth – this theme comes up, and you get to hear all the stories. What is characteristic is that very few young people know a lot about the disease, and very few adults know a lot about the disease. It's the jungle telegraph that's going on, the school doesn't do very much. You just have to figure this out on your own. My question is, can you do more?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e930	On a general basis, it is always difficult to say that no more can be done. I think the representative is very right that more information is necessary. We don't have a systematic survey of how schools work on this, but we see, among other things. from media reports that secondary schools, especially in areas that have had experience with kissing outbreaks — which often occur, for example. In the context of the Russian era, i.e. when young people gather and the infection spreads easily, it has been a good idea to follow up with good information. I would also like to stress that although my answer is more general, the school and health care services are essential for both having good information, having time to follow up the students and also being able to spend time in the individual school, so that you have the opportunity to obtain information on, for example, the subject. kissing disease. But it's not like our system is designed for some particular type of disease, so I think strengthening the general instruments is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e937	When it comes to special information about the rush times, it's really new to me. I thought it was meningitis that was really what you were most afraid of. I know there's a lot of focus on that, and it's a deadly disease. I'm very happy that the health service is taking it seriously, and that the schools are also doing it by offering vaccination programs. What's with this disease is that it doesn't - at least extremely rarely - have fatal outcomes, but it has very big consequences. This can lead to people getting away from school and education for half a year, one year and a half, and that's not uncommon. What often characterizes those who get sick is that they have full pressure with a high level of activity, like sports or culture, and that makes them much sicker than they would otherwise be. That knowledge goes from mouth to mouth between parents and young people. I haven't heard the school mention this to any particular extent, and I haven't been able to find anything either, other than if you Google it on patient pages online. That's the information base, and that's not good enough. Will the Council of State do something concrete to further address this disease?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e946	Now that the representative may have seen that it's true enough that there was a small mixture of meningitis -- at least as a concrete follow-up to this question, I'm going to look even more clearly at what's being done, in concrete terms, with kissing disease, whether there's a particular need for information there, and whether, as the representative describes, there's a disease around which there's little attention. Then I think that the answer will still be in strengthening the general instruments, and that the schools and health centres are important there. I'm going to take an extra check to see if there's something -- I kept saying -- low-hanging fruits in terms of information needs and knowledge about this, and also check with my colleague in the Ministry of Health what they have of information that is available, and whether they perceive it being spread in a good way in schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e955	‘The government has repeatedly stated that a wish for non-profit institutions to remain suppliers in the welfare field. This was also underlined when the government decided to suspend several labour market measures. What leadership has the Ministry provided to ensure that non-profit institutions can continue to be active and effective providers when labour market measures are put out to competition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e962	First of all, thank you for the question. We have a long tradition in Norway to cooperate with the non-profit sector on important welfare tasks. The Government wants to expand and strengthen cooperation on the delivery of health and social services. The Government has therefore concluded a cooperation agreement with umbrella organisations for non-profit organisations and KS on the provision of health and social services. In this context, an action plan for the non-profit sector has been drawn up, followed up with regular dialogue meetings between the parties. The action plan contains measures in several departments, including: the quality of acquisitions and acquisitions of new clearance and follow-up services in the labour and welfare seat is included. The Government decided to acquire clearance and follow-up services from 1 January 2015 in line with the Government Acquisitions Code. Procurement offers increased opportunities for ideal and other actors, since the transition from prior authorisation to tendering means that several operators can be assessed against quality and performance requirements. The Ministry has followed this up in its regulatory work and in the governance dialogue with the Employment and Welfare Act, among others. in letters of allocation and reporting. On this basis, the State of Labour and Welfare has developed guidelines and competitive bases for the purchase of clearing and follow-up services that are in line with public procurement legislation. Under this legislation, the Ministry may not give prior emphasis to a particular supplier or group of suppliers. Ten counties have been awarded so far. Agreements have been concluded with a wide range of operators in these counties. About half of them are reinsurance enterprises, growth enterprises or non-profit institutions serving households. In addition, there are many subcontractors. The quality of the offer is given the highest priority in competition. I have great faith that Nav will choose action organisers who will give the best offer to the users. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has launched an external evaluation of both the implementation and the provision of services to users. It will gradually provide us with a good knowledge base for the further development of labour market services. As regards cooperation with the non-profit sector, I would like to end by mentioning, of course, the representative is also aware that in the 2016 state budget, grants for activation and work training under the auspices of non-profit organisations were increased by 15.5 million. kr, and grants to social entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurs were reinforced by an additional 4.5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e981	I thank you for your answer. I am familiar with the work done by the government to facilitate non-profit institutions serving households to reach out to the tendering processes that are in place. The Committee was recently in the Drama of Committee Journey and met among others. The Church's Bymission. They underlined that a bid had been made in the Drammen area, which was in all 340 places. The Church's Bymition delivered 30 of them and did not see themselves able to deliver as many as 340 seats in a single offer. The question is then: does the Council of State consider that placing 340 seats in one tender contributes to the effective participation of NPISHs in a genuine competition, or does it mean that a large commercial operator is brought in?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e990	In so far as acquisitions within this area are not new. It's been done at all times. We also see that there are many great ideal actors who are now the owner of the workplace. I have read the essay – in Drammen’s Official Journal, I guess. I do not know the details of that particular offer, but I have received some signals about the outcome of the offer in some places. I have asked the administration to follow up and contact the directorate to find out how the different considerations of the tender documents – the quality of the tender, which is, after all, incredibly important, and diversity on the other hand, which is also important – are taken into account in the outbound tenders. For my part, I am concerned that we should ensure a good diversity of suppliers – it serves users – but I am also concerned that the quality of the offers is best for their users.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e995	The best offer is what's going to apply, says the Council of State, and it's hard to disagree with it. But when we look at the ideals of competition with the private, commercial players, we often have to be able to define an added value for the non-profit organisations involved in such work. Does the Council of State see that non-profit organisations have an added value that should be emphasised when writing the basis for competition? Or should there be free competition between private, commercial and non-profit actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e1002	I am not sure if it is the form of organisation that determines the quality of the offer. What I'm concerned about is that we have a good balance between ideals, between commercial and between public providers. Today we have a good mix between these, but as I said in my other answer, we see that in some places it may look as if the tender delay has led to fewer operators. There is also a background for me asking for a statement from the directorate on how the different considerations are weighted in the tender. What must always be governing is, of course, what is the best offer, while also ensuring the diversity of good providers of these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e1009	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-13.ana.ud909e1022	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. If none of the three in attendance require the floor, the sitting may be suspended. - The meeting's been cancelled.
