ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e26	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e29	On behalf of Bård Vegar Solhjell, Audun Lysbakken, Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to repeal Section 184(a) of the Penal Code concerning violations of representatives of other states.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e46	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and the Councils of State Elisabeth Aspaker and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e53	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Since the Right and Advance Party joined the government in 2013, unemployment in Norway has increased dramatically, by 50 pst. more available. 134 000 Nordics are now out of work. That's the highest number in 23 years. Youth is hit hardest, youth unemployment is increasing most — young people who face adult life without the opportunity to get a job, income and manage themselves. Nearly half of those who were unemployed last year had only primary school as the highest completed education. At the same time, every four young people leave school without completing high school. There are 15 000 new young people for each coal at the back of the unemployment line. Strong efforts and innovation are needed to ensure that many more can succeed in school and gain the skills needed in a very tough labour market. In this situation, the Minister of Knowledge goes out and says that the time for the major reforms is over. Despite the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party spend more oil money than any government before them, they cannot afford to bet, according to Red Isaac. The working party strongly disagrees. Unfortunately, the Right Party and the Progress Party are being given a majority in this Chamber to stop our proposals for new reforms. When we proposed 33 measures to reform vocational training and give more apprenticeships, the Right and the Advance Party voted it down. When we proposed to earmark support for the school health service, increase efforts against bullying and make all students safe, the Right and Advance Party voted it down. When we propose a new major reform with early school effort, a reading, writing and calculating guarantee, so that everyone starts school well, the Right Party and the Advance Party vote it down. What is the reason why the Red Isaac and the Right are opposed to these new, big initiatives and reforms that can help students finish school?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e68	In all areas such as the representative Geske mentions, the government and the cooperation parties deliver. Among other things, we deliver to close the gap between adult and youth law, which is a hole that has been there for a very long time — totally incomprehensible. We have increased the apprenticeship grant, which stood still almost all the years under the previous government. Now it's increased. The learning clause to push companies to have apprentices on projects when they sell to the public is being tightened up now. All this comes under this government. Efforts at school skills, at skilled teachers, are now coming. With the cooperation parties, efforts are also being made to increase the number of teachers between 1 and 4. steps. So the representative raises a very important question, and that's: do we have to do more when we see that unemployment is increasing and we know that youth is being hit hardest by increased unemployment? My answer to that is: Yes. We also have to do more. Because there is a crisis in the areas where unemployment is increasing, and there is a crisis for those affected. Then we have to see if we're going to make it even easier for companies to keep apprentices in tougher periods, we have to continue a big investment in knowledge, innovation and research that this government and the cooperation parties have stood for, we have to look at our innovation tools, and we have to make our system more flexible. There's a big message for treatment in Stortinget now, about lifelong learning and alienation, which is really about the issues that many of those who are now losing their jobs and want to increase their skills, are in the middle of it, so it's a good opportunity for the Stortinget to deal with it. In the end, I know that the representative Giske has had a lot of other things to do in the last few weeks and may not have read the newspapers as well as he does, because I have not said that the time for the major reforms is over, but that I believe the time for the major cost-intensive reforms that give more to everyone is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e79	It is absolutely right that I am very concerned about children and young people's growth and conditions. [[Laughter]] We cannot afford costly reforms, says Red Isaac of the Evening Post. That's right. But that's not quite true, because one very costly reform can afford the Right and Advance Party, and it's tax cuts for the most prosperous in Norway in almost 20 billion. kr. In fact, the one bet that the Stortinget has unanimously adopted with the Right and the Advance Party is a commitment to further training for teachers. But it's ten days' tax cuts. That's the difference between school spending and tax cuts. This year, the tax cuts were 40 times what Røe Isaksen got to primary school and secondary school. Last year, 100 times more went to tax cuts than extra to primary and secondary school. Before the 2013 elections, Erna Solberg said that tax cuts did not take precedence over other bets. Does Røe Isaksen agree that with 100 times more tax cuts than for school, tax cuts may seem to prevail anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e88	Let's use 1 billion. kr on continuing education in the year. How the representative Giske can make it ten days' tax cuts is out of my mind. Now I'm not the steadyest in mathematics, but that's how I manage to see through-- that 1 billion. kr is not 10 days in tax cuts. Then there was a bet that was necessary precisely because the previous government had not prioritised the biggest and most important things in school. They had no prioritized competence, no prioritized continuing education, no prioritized early efforts. Of course, as a member of the government, I also believe that part of the conversion package is that it will be more profitable to operate, own and maintain jobs in Norway. If you think that the companies that are now struggling will be less laboured by the increase in tax billing, I am very interested to hear what support you have – from economists or others – to increase taxes in times of decline, as unemployment increases, is a good contribution to job security.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e97	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marianne Aasen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e100	Increased implementation in higher education and in universities and higher education may be the most important measure to prepare people for a rather demanding labour market. Early effort, the ability of all children and young people to read, calculate and write when they leave school, may be the most important measure to prevent apostasy. In Prime Minister Erna Solberg's speech at the Right Country Meeting not long ago, early efforts were the big thing to solve the challenges in school. What we all remember was the election campaign in 2013. Then she talked about asking for confidence in creating a new and effective government. Where are the measures that the government intends to take in order to make early school interventions? And what are you going to do more than just come up with big words?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e107	We intend to follow up on the budgets, and we intend to follow up on a big message. Because there has been no disagreement, there has been no difference in rhetoric at least, when it comes to investing in early efforts. The question is what do you actually put on when you have the chance. The previous government made an admirable effort in the youth. It was very good with that. I think that the most important bet should be early, an early start, precisely because we know that if we manage to catch up with the students who don't learn to read, write and calculate, early in school, it will also help improve high school performance. What have we already done? For example, taking skills seriously throughout the school cycle through skills requirements, which fortunately the Labour Party is also in favour – they will be here in 10 years, but it is now another matter. It's important. There is also further training, where several of the offers are directly eaten in order to make teachers even more experts – to put it that way – at early work, and not least bets with the Christian People's Party and the Left on several teachers at 1–4th stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e114	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e117	There is a broad consensus that early effort is the key to solving the challenges we have in school today. But for us to succeed with early efforts, it is absolutely essential that there are enough teaching resources available in the school. That is why I am pleased with the efforts we have made in the negotiations with the Government Parties and the Left, on more teachers of the youngest students. We used to have a class division in Norwegian school. I don't think anyone wants to have that back. However, when the Storting decided to remove the rating numbers in 2013, the majority was also clear that this should not be a saving measure. The old class breakdown shall remain at a minimum level for the allocation of resources to the school. This was also confirmed by the Minister of Knowledge in May 2014, but the Council of State could not respond to this or not being complied with in Norwegian schools and Norwegian municipalities. My question is whether the Council of State can today give some answer as to whether the Ministry has an overview of how this legislation is followed in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e125	We have an overview of the development of both the number of students and the number of teachers, and therefore also the relationship between how many teachers you have and how many students you have — in general. And the big picture is that no less resources are being used in Norwegian school now than has been done in the past, and that there have not been fewer teachers in Norwegian school per student – it has remained relatively stable. Then it's quite right, as the representative says, that the cooperation parties have agreed that we need to focus more on more teaching positions in the first to fourth level. class. I think it's a good bet. The disagreement is whether we should link this effort to a kind of national norm. And just briefly: why am I not a member of it, why is the government not a member of it? In Oslo, there are, among others: with Christian People's Party in City Council, invested in several hours in school, several hours in school in Norwegian, mathematics – the kind of thing. I believe that it is a choice the municipalities should have, although it can then be at the expense of other important investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e130	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e133	In the speech to the national meeting, the Prime Minister said that — there was something new — an obligation is to be imposed on schools for the specific follow-up of students who are being followed. Early efforts are agreed that is incredibly important, and it is also important in terms of ‘drop-out’ later. I think it's good that the Council of State costs itself to say that the efforts of the red-green government towards high school were good, and I also hope that the Council of State will continue to retain the number of teaching positions that were increased there. So this government has increased the number of teachers at the nursery. But what I'm wondering -- I didn't get it all with me -- is, what's new, what's going to be in this duty for the schools to follow separately the students who're going to be hanging after? In the training law proposed by the red-green government in 2009, there is already an early commitment. It was added there in 2009, and even that it should be followed up with an increased number of teachers. So I wonder what's new in this duty.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e140	The details will come in the big message that we are going to present to Stortinget. It is true that the law says that you should have extra resources for the youngest, and that there is a general obligation to follow up all students. The control question we have to ask is: is this done in all municipalities and in all schools today? My answer to that is no. I believe that it is — the figures also suggest — that too many children and young people go through the first few years and already fall from there, which we cannot follow. The Prime Minister, in this context the Right-leader, announced at the National Council of the Right, was that one of the measures to strengthen early efforts would be to strengthen the law and make it even more clear that municipalities and schools also have a follow-up obligation. This can be done, for example: in a non-bureaucratic way through intensive training in small groups during periods, but I think it is a good idea that the decision on how to do so is at school. So it's natural to think that it can follow resources with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e147	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e150	At the national meeting two weeks ago – at Left – we adopted the programme on children, young people and growing up that I have here, which was stamped by Arne Holthe of the Institute of Public Health as one of the best things for the children if this was adopted. We've already done a lot of good with the government, such as. introduced free core time in kindergarten for all children, and one of the proposals in this document is free SFO for children from low-income families. 25 pst. Of the children in Norway, SFO is not using today, and we know that there is a lot of learning to get from the SFO. We in the Left also propose in this document a complete reform of the SFO, so that all children can have equal opportunities for quality time there, including art, culture, sport and not least skilled homework. My question to the Council of State is: Will he look at the possibility of implementing such a reform of the SFO? Clearly it will be expensive, but it will certainly be for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e159	I agree that we have achieved a lot of good, and among those things there is also, after the budget conciliation last, some means in place to look at the school leisure system, for which the Left was a proponent. But then you ask what I want to take the initiative for. It is important that the school leisure system is as good as possible. Today, there's a very big difference between the municipalities on what they put in it. I believe, however, that there are still so many unsolved tasks in school – early work, teachers who will be refilled, develop better teaching practices, more sharing culture, not to talk about new teacher training – that it will be my main priority in the future. So if I have to choose and choose – and I have to – I would rather use our resources to strengthen e.g.. Early intervention, ensuring that no children fall out of school in the first years of their life, but having a new, major reform of the school leisure system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e166	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e169	Once upon a time, the Right was known to talk about tax and school. Now you talk about school, but you do tax – it's a very clear division of labour: you talk about one thing, and then you do something completely different. The lack of willingness to invest resources in schools and kindergartens is one of the reasons why there is an increasing level of conflict between those working in the sector and this government. Other reasons are the divorce decision, on which the minister of knowledge finally stood, and the resistance to doing what teachers say is the most important thing for quality in school: a standard of teachers so that we can increase teacher density in primary school, and the kindergarten plans, where new framework plans are now being created without including the professional community itself, for the first time. It is in this sector that every time the Right takes power, the conflict level increases because the Right does not listen to those who work in the sector. Why is the Minister of Knowledge so poor at listening to teachers and kindergarten teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e176	I do what I can to listen, I'm a lot out in the sector, have regular meetings with trusted people, but that doesn't mean that we always agree on things. You can put the question back to SV. One of the things that the Federation of Education, the second largest trade union of teachers, warns against, is all-day school. They warn against a full-time school because they believe that there will be a diffuse distinction between school and leisure, that resources will be used on something that is a kind of half-way school, without a direct quote. It is allowed for SV to have that position, even though not the teachers' organisations end up doing so. Listening is about having a starting point. Sometimes you have to compromise, get input from the sector, but that doesn't mean that the government's or the Right's school policy will at any time be exactly what the teacher's or others have on their agenda, but basically – both on five-year master's education and further education – we have teachers in our backs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e183	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e187	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have previously discussed in this Chamber how Palestinian self-government authorities reward those who commit terrorism against Israel. Barth Eide, the predecessor of Brende, took this up with the Palestinian self-government authorities and demanded that the scheme be terminated – something that was also promised. That's not a small sum we're talking about here. So hundreds of millions of dollars a year go to people who have committed terrorism in Israel. And the more serious the terrorist attack has been, the more pay you have. If you go through it a little systematically, it is also hailed by people and groups that are very close to self-government, and you encourage schools and other organisations to call football tournaments, basketball tournaments and whatever it should be, in the name of terrorists. We're familiar with this. What has been done by the Palestinians? Well, you've just turned down a sign with the "Ministry," and then you've screwed up another one with the "Funcommission" -- but it's the same money that goes to exactly the same people, and in the opinion of my Christian People's Party, it undermines what is going to build peace between Israel and Palestine. So my question is: what do the Foreign Minister think this must have for the Norwegian aid to the Palestinian self-government authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e200	Thank you to the representative Syversen for addressing an important issue, which also gives the opportunity to put it into a slightly wider context. First, I have to say that the Palestinian self-government authorities, starting with Ramallah, are doing an incredibly important work on behalf of the Palestinians, who are under pressure. They do not dispose of their own territory. We know that there is a lot of injustice committed against the Palestinians in general, and it has been an important task for Norway, together with many other European countries and the United States, to support self-government – not least their work in health and education and to build the necessary state bodies, including in Ramallah. There are many Palestinians who are actually imprisoned in Israeli prisons for no reason, and where there are great questions about legal certainty. These funds to which the representative Syversen refers also go to these groupings. But, of course, for Norway, Norwegian aid should go to the families of those who have committed criminal acts against Israelis, i.e. Palestinians in Israeli prisons. That's totally out of the question. Last week I received a confirmation from Finance Minister Bishara that this is not happening. Then you have to be aware that the Palestinian self-government has tax revenues. They have their own income, they receive reimbursement of income from Israel as well, so that they have their own income that they can use for different purposes. I have not heard that neither the EU, the United States nor anyone else, nor the Israelis, are going to stop the transfer of legitimate tax revenue to the Palestinians because they have such a system. But I promise that I will take this up again and increase the pressure on the Palestinians, because this is not something that serves the Palestinian self-government authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e211	It is safe to say that it does not serve them, because what is happening is that you are countering what is actually the goal of Norwegian aid money as well. The paradox is — the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that money should go to health and education — that fewer funds go to just health and education because money is spent on these activities. You could call it what you want, but it's just an intermediate station that's now called the Commission prisoner. The money has increased to the same extent as it was within the ministry, the exact same amount of money goes on. The comparison with Israel just doesn't go away. It is under the Oslo Agreement, and it is the Palestinians' own resources. They'll do whatever they want. We have a responsibility that the money that Norway gives should go to completely different things than subsidising terrorism. So my question is, how will the Foreign Minister now follow up, or is it just saying that you don't like it, and then you're done with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e218	I have determined that this is an unacceptable practice on the part of the Palestinian authorities. In a letter to Norway in 2013, we were assured that Norwegian funds will not be used for the arrangements established by the Palestinians for Palestinians in Israeli prisons. I brought this up again last week, very clear, crystal clear, with Minister of Finance Bishara, and he said that there is not one penny of Norwegian aid for this. But I added that I also think they should end up with that scheme. The next week, it has been suggested that I should meet with President Abbas, and I will promise the representative of the Syversen that not only shall I again receive the guarantees that Norwegian aid money does not go to this – which they do not – but I will also take the opportunity to say to President Abbas, with all the challenges facing the Palestinians now, not least because of the lack of opportunity for development on the West Bank, that they are very well served to abolish this scheme for their own legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e225	There will be follow-up questions – first Astrid Aarhus Byrknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e228	It is very good that this issue will be brought up with President Abbas. At all times, the main objective of Norwegian aid is development and poverty reduction. On the other hand, the aid to the Palestinian territories has had a different political base, to build up the work of peaceful conflict settlements based on Israel and Palestine living together as good neighbours. Then it's very sad to hear about these money rewards to prison terrorists, convicted terrorists who get payments higher than government officials. They will be honoured – at sports tournaments, at youth gatherings – and Fatah is actively using both Facebook and Twitter accounts in this area. Then I wonder: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that this was the case with the main objective of Norwegian Palestine aid, which is to work for mutual trust and the basis for a peace process with Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e233	Now it is the case that Norway has a good relationship with both Israel and the Palestinians. When I'm in contact with Israeli authorities, there are many questions we have to address, not least the lack of a two-state solution. The increasing Israeli settlements on the West Bank also create a climate in Ramallah on the West Bank that is very demanding. But there is no excuse for setting up a system in which money is given to imprisoned Palestinians in Israeli prisons that also includes those who have committed criminal acts. The Palestinians should stop that now – we have asked for that. But what is absolutely crucial is that Norwegian aid money should not go there. Then, of course, you can think loudly about whether because of the existence of this scheme, and not for Norwegian money to go there, you should stop giving assistance to Palestine and the Palestinians at all. If we are going to start in such a direction, I think we will see that there are quite a number of aid countries that have different arrangements that we do not agree with. So it's going to be a very demanding operation, which I think we're going to think carefully through, and which neither the United States nor Israel themselves have raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e240	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e243	I would like to express my support for the work of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to strengthen the Palestinian self-government authorities, but also for the demands that the Minister of Foreign Affairs makes quite clear to the Palestinians. What is now a danger is that much of the responsibility of the Palestinian self-government authorities for schooling and health care is under strong pressure. There are often other countries in the Middle East now receiving funding from the West. At the same time, we see that there is a great and extensive work that needs to be done in Gaza to provide people with proper health care and education, and that in itself helps to prevent extremism. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to strengthen the Palestinian welfare offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e248	It was a question with a different starting point. Now, the Palestinian authorities are one of the largest beneficiaries of Norwegian aid, but what we are providing is, above all, concrete health and education projects aimed at rebuilding damaged areas in Gaza. I fully agree with Mr Huitfeldt's representative, we should not underestimate the danger of increased violent extremism and radicalisation if it is not a political horizon and a political hope for the establishment of a two-state solution. If it continues to evolve in such a difficult humanitarian direction as we now see in Gaza, it's not just a workhouse, but a powder keg that can explode at any time, and we've seen in this region that we've underestimated the danger associated with vulnerable states.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e253	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e257	Think of the scenario that France has been given a new government, and then the new French EU Minister at his first meeting in Brussels is going to be a little excited, goes in, meets the European Commissioner and starts by saying, ‘Pardon, excuse!’ Sorry, that the previous French government stood up for the French food industry, French agriculture, French jobs. It's an unimaginable scenario that a French government would ever do something like this. But when the Right-State Council Vidar Helgesen traveled to Brussels in the autumn of 2013, the first thing he did was meet with his opponents there, saying, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry!" The previous Norwegian government stood up for Norwegian agriculture, for Norwegian food industry, for Norwegian jobs. They shouldn't have done that! Fortunately, however, a large number of people here stood up and said no to Norway flagging out industry and jobs to the EU. And now we are embarking on a new customs negotiation between Norway and the EU. So my question to the new European Minister is: will she break the line from the predecessor, or will she – as he – wish to give major concessions, so that Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian food industry have to fly out?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e266	It is the government's starting point that we are going to have a viable agriculture in Norway. We are going to have a policy that helps us create new jobs, but at the same time we are going to have a policy that enables us to contribute and be part of a large community of interests in Europe. The EEA Agreement is Norway’s main anchor fasteners, which is our main market – 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to Europe – and it is crucial for us that we have an EEA agreement that is being complied with and that helps us to have as much competitive conditions as possible, that we can help ensure that the economic growth to take place in Norway can also be achieved with the help of the large market in Europe. Then it is that EEA Agreement has been negotiated with some commitments for Norway, where Article 19 requires us to negotiate the gradual liberalisation of agricultural products. It has several governments before us. It has also been done by the government of which Mr Vedum was a member in the previous growing-up period, and that is the commitment that the Norwegian Government is now following up. So we're complying with what's important for two parties: it's important to us that we fulfil the obligations we have under the EEA Agreement, but it's of course that we want to find good, balanced solutions that also take care of the business and agriculture we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e277	I notice to the Council of State that she does not want to be clear that she will stand up for Norwegian interests in the negotiations that are now with the EU. There is no doubt that if you look at the trade statistics between Norway and the EU, the EU has been the great winner of food exports in recent years. It has doubled since 1995. The agreement states that it shall be «on a mutually beneficial basis» and shall be within the framework of the agricultural and food policy of the country concerned. When we made improvements in the autumn of 2012, we got massive criticism of it, but the criticism was stronger from the Right than it was from the EU. For example, Erna Solberg said that this was taken as a very negative signal, Jan Tore Sanner said that they would be gone with a new government, and Svein Fleet said that they would remove the improvements before he had ‘hanged off the coat’. So then my question is to the Council of State: Is it such that the Council of State feels a pressure internally in the government to give away as many jobs as possible, weakening Norwegian positions as possible, as the Right meant in the fall of 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e286	I will protest at the presentation by Schlagsvold Vedum that today's government does not stand up for Norwegian interests. We do, but we have an international agreement that we also have obligations to stand up for. But let there be no doubt: it is not that we are sitting at the negotiating table and want to give up as much as possible. But I also think Battle Violence Vedum must take on board that it did not exactly create a good negotiating environment for future Article 19 negotiations, the changes that were made during the previous government. So we probably have a more demanding starting point, but I can assure the representative that we will stand up for Norwegian interests in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e291	It opens for follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e294	As the representative, Mr Vedum, said, the EU has multiplied its exports to Norway. Norway’s exports to the EU have also seen strong growth – then in fisheries, but not in agriculture. We've had a very good development and a growth of 150 pst. on fish. Several of the representatives of the Right have linked fish to agriculture. The Minister said in the European Commission on 14 March that the government has ‘an overall consideration to take by having many other important issues in which we want to achieve results in the EU, so that there is also a totality that needs to be assessed’, on questions of precisely Article 19 and the position of the government. Today, unemployment in the West is rising, and industrial and industrial workplaces are at risk. From what other point of view is the government willing to sacrifice Norwegian jobs in agriculture and the food industry? And do the Council of State think that the developments we see today in exports and imports of agricultural products are balanced and mutually beneficial?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e308	There has never been a balance between imports and exports of agricultural products. It hasn't been in the past, and it's hardly going to be in the future either. But I would like to emphasise once again: we are negotiating with one of the best interests of Norway. In the meeting of the European Committee of Great Britain to which reference is made, I did not have the link between agriculture and fish, for the new fisheries agreement negotiated, negotiated last year, in parallel with the EEA funds. However, it is all the other major areas in Europe that it is important for Norway to have an impact. That is in the overall picture we also need to see the negotiations that we now have on Article 19. It is important for us to come up with good, agreed results in order to also preserve goodwill and have impact in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e315	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e318	From the situation we are now in, I think the main question is timely. It is also right, I think, to demand a relatively clear response from the European Minister. Firstly, there is no doubt that imports from Europe of food products, or foodstuffs, are growing significantly. It has doubled since the 1990s, and all indications suggest that it will increase in the future. It is then important to clarify which position the government actually chooses to take on behalf of Norwegian jobs and on behalf of the Norwegian food industry. There is no doubt that with the reaction of the Stortinget after Helgesen was going to wind up the ostetoll, there was really a broad agreement in the Stortinget that one should use import protection to ensure that Norwegian food production and a viable agriculture are seen in a context. Then there is reason to ask the question again: How will the government's position on the Norwegian food industry be in the negotiations in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e325	We've had laps where we've been recorded, and where we've listened to the advice that came from, among other things. the food industry in this field. Then I – I think you fully understand – can't go into what are the Norwegian positions in what's going on. When it is said that imports into Norway have increased: yes, this is also because under the previous government the cheese quota was increased by 2 700 tonnes, the meat quota by 2 700 tonnes. So it is clear that it is a result of the Article 19 negotiations that have been going on over the years that imports into Norway are increasing. It's also part of the commitments, or the EEA Agreement, to which we have actually committed ourselves, and to which the Storting has joined. So it should not come as a surprise that when we have such a commitment, it also means that imports into Norway are increasing. But we also look at the possibilities of whether there are goods in Norway that can also go the other way more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e332	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e336	"Monsieur le President"! A small question to the Council of State: I believe that it is not the first word in the negotiations, but that it may still be a problem for this government that the counterparty is very well aware of what has been the right-hand view of the customs measures that Norway has introduced in the past. If a negotiator with someone who knows that is the starting point, it is not a good starting point for what the council says is her project, namely the best possible defence for Norwegian interests. Therefore, it would help if the Council of State were willing to respond more clearly to what the government thinks about what the Right has said in the past, and the Right criticism promoted against the previous government, and whether it is such that someone now thinks otherwise, or whether it is the ‘your right regent’ that is the only communication from the Council of State to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e341	There was a lot of French in this questioning! I would like to say to Mr Lysbakken that I believe that we are also sitting in Brussels and seeing what the parliamentary position is like in Norway. Although it was that the government parties were very clear when you were in opposition, that this percentage was something you strongly disliked, Brussels – I think – is sufficiently realistic to understand what it is possible and not. There can be no doubt that we are going to these negotiations with the best possible care of Norwegian interests, taking care of Norwegian agriculture as well as possible. But, of course, I cannot go into concrete negotiating positions here. There'll be very little smart in the situation we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e350	Let's move on to the next main question, from Iselin Nybø. Otherwise, this President prefers to be sued in Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e355	Honored President! Not too long ago, we had a gender equality debate here in Stortinget, and we all know that there are also major gender equality challenges in education. Many still choose traditionally, and therefore we have few women in many human-dominated professions and too few men in many women-dominated professions. This is a challenge for many reasons, including: because many of these professions are to work with both men and women, and because men and women can contribute different things to the profession. One example can be a health sister. A health sister should be there for all school students, both for the girls and for the boys. Perhaps it is then that not all boys feel quite natural to take the trip into the office of a health sister to talk about what is difficult. And it's a problem for society that out of 3,300 health sisters in the Norwegian Nursing Association, there are only 5 men. Sometimes I have a feeling that as a society, it's more important that adult people who go through the security controls at an airport should not be controlled by the opposite sex than we think it is that our students meet the health sisters of both sexes – so that all students can feel comfortable with the one they're going to talk to about the most difficult thing they're up to. Another example of an education with a gender balance is psychology. Here, a large majority of women are being picked up and graduated, and psychologists are going to treat a sample of the entire population, both women and men. When the gender equality message was dealt with in Stortinget earlier this month, it was decided that the government should investigate the design and introduction of extra points for boys and girls applying for studies there, for example. is 80 pst. or more of the opposite sex. Such a scheme is not necessarily simple, as it allows a candidate with lower grades to be preferred solely on the basis of gender. For those who are involved, it feels unfair, but it is nevertheless important for society that we get both sexes represented. What does the Council of State think of the decision taken by Stortinget, and how will he follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e370	In general, when it comes to the fact that the government parties are in a minority, I believe that my job is to get stuck and carry out what Stortinget has said. The size has asked us to investigate and look at the possibility of a system where you, where there are more than 80 pst. by one sex, has a fixed plan for extra points, and we're going to do that. I also assume that the Storting is interested in both the benefits of such a scheme and the potential disadvantages. Then today we have an arrangement for this already. Today’s scheme is that institutions themselves can apply to the Ministry of Knowledge for additional credits. There are a number of studies in which there is human dominance, and there are a few studies in which there is female dominance, including for example: veterinary study. In some places it has probably worked well, for example. assesses NTNU now to remove some of their gender points, simply because they feel that the gender balance has improved, if not optimal. In the veterinary study, it is a bit interesting to look at the figures since the sex scores arrived in 2004. Then there was a very strong rise – if I do not remember correctly, it was from approx. 8 pst. men to about 30 pst. men the following year. But if you look at the candidate figures from the last few years, it's back to about 7-8 pst. In other words, the search is the main problem, not just who qualifies. It makes you think about whether fixed sex scores are the best way to do it, or whether it's about motivating more people to get in. In the case of exactly the health sister, there are several discussions there, as I have seen also the Left has had. One is that I too believe that there should be a goal of having a better gender balance. I think it's also a lot about recruitment. Nevertheless, in health care and elsewhere, there may be arguments that going to a man if you're a boy has something to do with it. But I also want to say that I think it is important to stress that all health sisters, whether they are women or men, are equally qualified from their education to evaluate and talk to both boys and girls in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e381	I thank you for your answer. The drug study is also one of the studies in which there are more and more women, and there is obviously much evidence of this. Today's Medisin had an article recently showing that the proportion of women among students admitted to the medical study in the autumn of 2015 and in the spring of 2016 was 71 p.m. And although it's good that women claim to be in prestigious jobs, it's not positive in the long run with such a great overrepresentation of women in this study. We know that Norway also educates relatively few of the drugs we need ourselves. Today, almost half of Norwegian medical students take their education abroad, and in addition, we authorize a number of foreigners who come to Norway to work as a doctor. It's good that people get out, and it's good that we attract skills, but here we have a study with both gender challenges and a capacity problem. How does the Council of State think we're going to solve this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e390	First, we just have to say that the time when white, heterosexual, middle-aged men had an automatic entrance ticket to power positions and performance studies in society is about to pass – otherwise just as I am getting middle-aged myself. I want to say that it's basically very good. It is good that more women enter prestigious studies such as medicine and law and in the economics study – that’s very good. Then it also has to have the consequence that more recruit the best, and then also recruit more women. This also points to another problem, that we are now beginning to see quite clearly the contours of a boy's problem, both through school and higher education, how the boys are overrepresented in very many of the bad statistics. In concrete terms, the representative asks about medical education. I guess the representative would like to know if we need a new medical faculty in Norway and that kind of thing. I believe that the situation we have today is satisfactory. It is also the Ministry of Health that has a significant interest and responsibility for health education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e397	There will be follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e400	I want to follow up on equality and education, but I want to follow it up with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The government has been involved in a major shift in the knowledge field of assistance. Betting at school, especially betting on the education of young girls, helps against everything. Among all the issues you can imagine in a developing country, it works to train girls. But if we are to be clear about building equality in a society, we need not only to raise the basic education of girls, we also need to raise some women through longer education courses, so that we not only fight illiteracy, but actually train leaders in these societies that are women. Have we spent too much of the basic assistance on the young girls and not bothering to push the capable women forward? Should we also have coordinated much more of the assistance to raise this from a gender perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e409	First of all, we have spent too little of the aid on education in the last ten years, not just Norway – we have seen that the share of education in aid has fallen globally. Now we've changed it. We have almost doubled the aid for education from Norway in the course of two and a half years, and not least for girls. There are still 60 million children in the world who don't go to school. We are going to reach them, not least in vulnerable areas and not least in girls, disabled children and others who have the most difficulty in accessing that type of education. We don't least have our own higher education assistance programme, where we spend hundreds of millions of dollars a year strengthening educational institutions. If it's possible to strengthen the role of women in that program, then what I'm going to see is to make it even more clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e418	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e422	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. We had a very short time ago a very good, thorough and important equality debate here in the Storting, where many proposals were adopted. Unfortunately, these proposals were adopted by a majority without the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party, with the exception of one. However, proposals such as the Minister of Knowledge has the constitutional responsibility to implement were also adopted without the government parties. The size of the population showed that in knowledge too, it is important that we continue to use policy instruments to achieve equality. Does the Minister of Knowledge agree that political instruments are needed, that equality is not something of itself, and that the challenges of equality are not something that goes beyond itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e431	I agree that equality is not something that comes of itself. I agree that political instruments are also needed. Then there will be a discussion about what kind of policy instruments. I believe it is important that equality is not just fought by political decisions. In other words, it is not possible to put any similarity between political decisions or that the only thing that happens in the field of equality is through political decisions. Fighting something out involves a much larger and broader fight than that. So to the concrete proposals that were adopted: I also believe that gender equality policies must be balanced against good university and higher education policies. And I've said that both I and the government are followers of today's system, which opens up the possibility of introducing gender scores if requested. I also think it is an important principle that not all decisions on the universities and colleges should be made subject to key provisions of the Stortinget. It is an important principle that institutions have autonomy and that they decide that these discussions are just out where democracy also lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e442	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e445	There is focus on higher education. We know today that there are most female students. We have most women in higher education. We have too few men in care studies and in education studies. We have too few women in science and science. Nordic women are more gender-specific; they make more gender-specific choices than others in Europe. Still, we have most male leaders. Equality does not start in secondary education. It doesn't start in college either. When you have to pick a line, you often do it when you go to high school. I wonder: What are the measures taken by the Council of State that the government will put in place to work more on the equality issue in primary school? Is it part of the big message of early action, as the Council of State was talking about earlier in the Question Time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e452	Gender equality and thus gender equality are at the heart of the school's values. As far as I remember, it is also described in the school's purpose paragraph. It means a commitment for schools not just to practice equivalency and equality. We know that much of the discrimination is due to more subtle forms of discrimination that boys and girls can detect – and are exposed to. It is important that the school is aware of. But it also means that the gender perspective is part of the school's communication, understanding, through Norwegian, social and other subjects. I generally have more faith in incentives, encouragement and the visibility of role models and role models. If that's what we have a lot of work. As I said, it is my duty as the Council of State to follow up what the majority of the population has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e463	Next follow-up question is from the Audun Light Bin. It's not from Kirsti Bergstø. That's Marianne Aasen! [[Laughter]] And then finally we get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e466	All good things are three.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e471	Earlier in this round, the Council of State spoke of measures to improve gender balance being delegated to the institutions. That's right. At the same time, we continue to control the sector very much: the Productivity Commission has demonstrated that 500 objectives and leadership have been set at the Norwegian Research Council. It is the King of State Council who decides what a university should be called, the Ministry has opinions on which journals the researchers are going to publish, and the Stortinget also controls the details of the number of scholarship positions to which we grant money. At the same time, this has been delegated to the institutions. Is not equality and equal opportunities so important for society that it is something that the Council of State and the Council of State must have strong opinions about, and not least concrete measures, in order to get something done about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e480	We have to separate, because it is not that Norwegian institutions can choose not to deal with the ambitions of equality, gender balance and good recruitment. These are overall objectives that the sector must also deliver. So the question is, what are the policy instruments used to get the institutions to do that? The majority of the population have decided that we should work out an automatic sex score system. I basically believe that today's system, where the institution itself can choose – discuss this, apply for it – is better. The reason for that is really two things. One thing, I think, is that there's not too little detailed management of universities and colleges today, that's too much. There is also too much detail management by the Research Council. It's a goal to get it down. The second is, I believe, that the core of a good university and higher education policy is great autonomy for the institutions. That means that in this case I weigh the autonomy higher. Then I'm going to say yes to good applications to introduce gender scores, if they come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e491	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e494	Already at birth, we're being fooled into pink and blue carpets. Girls and boys get socialized early into gender roles, and we learn how to play, dress and behave. Expectations and performances related to sex follow us all our lives, even when we're going to make choices about education. We know that kindergartens who deliberately don't work for the opposite, often contribute to the reproduction of gender roles. We know that boys get more attention than girls in school, and we also know that the gender balance among those who work at school and in kindergartens is biased in terms of professionals. Then it was striking to read the government's gender equality message, and it was striking to see that the minister of knowledge had not cooked in hopes a single measure that could really accommodate more equality in kindergarten, school and academy. Then I wonder, how is that possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e500	I believe that the most important measures, the most important ones, are to improve gender balance, for example. in school and kindergarten, it's not about sex scores and that kind of action, although I repeat that I'm open to it in some cases. If you look at e.g. the recruitment into kindergarten teacher training and the recruitment into the primary school for the youngest is where there is the greatest female dominance. How can that be? Well, I think something was revealed by a survey that the previous government started, about how we look at kindergarten teachers. When you ask people most, they say it's a very important job. Then they're asked if it's professionally challenging, and then it's between 30 pst. and 40 pst. That they think it is. Being a kindergarten teacher is professionally challenging! It's an expert position and an expert job. I think that one of the things that hangs on some of what we call care professionals is a vision that is simply linked to an old-fashioned gender role model. I think breaking it will be an important contribution to better gender balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e505	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e508	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge, because through a new regulation he has introduced a new threshold of absence in secondary education that will apply from the coming school years. The limit will apply to absences from individual hours, not students' total absences, and students with more than 10 pst. absence in a trade, will not be graded in the trade. The biggest challenge in higher education is that too many students do not complete. Annually, 15 000 Norwegian young people leave school before they have completed and passed secondary education. Last week, two Fafo researchers launched a book called ‘The Fallen’, where they investigate the reasons for this and show that it is a very complex image. It's about low motivation, it's about lack of a good basis from the past in education, dissatisfaction, mental problems, difficult home situation -- very different situations. Some students have never enjoyed it, and for them it feels like a relief to drop out. The two scientists think we have to be pragmatic. The strategy must be to maximise its potential. I think that's well said. But then we have to have skilled teachers and principals who work like this, who organize, make demands, work patiently to get the students one step in the right direction of a completed diploma – that is, to follow up instead of giving up. A static limit of absence is going to destroy for these teachers. It's going to mean that they're forced to give up the student when the student passes a given number of hours of absence. In particular, there will be a major professional problem where there are many low-hour individual subjects. Therefore, there are so many now — school researchers, principals, teachers — who fear that the rigid boundary of the Council of State is about to enter can lead to an increase in non-response. That is a very serious concern, and my question to the Council of State is therefore: can he guarantee that the new absenteeism will not increase the absence of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e519	It is never possible to guarantee the outcome of new policy measures, but I believe that the new threshold of absenteeism can help to get rid of it, simply because part of the drop-out, not all, can also be due to the fact that students are given up – that there are no clear demands for attendance, and that they thus get a long absence, many individual hours, which then in practice leads to their leaving school, and that they are also given up. But then it's important to say two things: first, we have to do more, not less, to bring down the apostasy. This limit of absence does not change that. We must continue the great effort of the government and the cooperation parties, in health sisters and school health services. It's about 750 million. NOK – if I remember correctly – that has been used during this period. We need to have even better cooperation between Nav and school. We need to have better cooperation between our education system and the social support system. We need to continue the efforts made by the government and the cooperation parties on youth psychiatry and psychiatry, among others. by reintroducing what is called the ‘golden rule’, i.e. there should be greater growth in the psychiatry than in the health care system. So to point two: I mean the limit of absence takes this into account, because it's not a general limit of absence; it's a limit of undocumented absence. What does that mean? It is well described in the circular from the Directorate of Education. That means that you have a disease, that's a valid reason for absence. If you care for your own children and they are ill, there is a valid reason for absence. If you care for younger siblings, there may also be valid grounds for absence. Of course, it's not put up like this in the system that if you, for example, if you are diagnosed for a disease that is not yet known, you must be absent. Of course, there will also be valid grounds for absence. My point is that for those students who are struggling with e.g. Mental disorders, it's very important to get help to do something about it. That effort must be reinforced. However, I believe that the limit of absence is important, because it gives a clear and clear message that meeting up to hours is not voluntary if you have no good reason to leave. Otherwise, it was 70 pst. in the hearing which supported the introduction of an absence limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e528	Very many of the main reasons for absenteeism will not be documented. Not everyone struggling with mental problems will go to a health sister and get a paper on it – or those who get bullied, or those who don't like it, or those who feel excluded from school for various reasons. This is not just my claim. Sintef made a report in 2012 where they underlined that an absence limit could contribute to even more people unable to complete higher education. Then I think it is serious that the Council of State dares to introduce this without being sure of the consequences, when we know how important the fight against apostasy is. I think it might be a useful tool for a lot of students who really do it well at school, have the motivation in order, but need a little push in their backs, but it can be devastating for those we need to do the most for, the students who don't have to give up in our school. The government's priority here is to make mistakes. In addition, from the autumn onwards, a new assessment regulation has been introduced, allowing teachers more opportunity to have their absences counted on a stand-by basis. Why can't the Council of State wait with the absence limit until we see how the new assessment regulation turns out?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e533	One of the reasons for this absence limit coming is that the previous government clarified the law and said that it was not allowed to have an absence limit. Then there were a lot of schools that had practiced the limit of absence and had good experience with it, which wanted to continue, but Kristin Halvorsen said they were not allowed to do that. So this has been out at the hearing, and then, as I said, there's a lot of support for us having a limit of absence, including from teacher organisations, for example. Then it's about finding a system that's clear, clear and fair to the students, while it's flexible enough for the schools to take the necessary care of. And at least I don't think that the schools, if there's a student who's struggling, will give up that student because the absence limit is coming. Rather, it gives an extra strong and clear signal that a student must follow up early, both with help and with organized education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e538	There will be follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e541	The Training Act requires county councils to follow-up to young people who discontinue secondary education and who are not in work. In a report from the Riksrevision, which was handed over to Stortinget on 15 March of this year, it appears that 60 pst. of young people who leave high school are not involved in any kind of action, and it often takes a very long time before the follow-up service in the municipalities comes into contact with those who have fallen out of school. When we already see that the follow-up of those who fall out of high school is too poor and there is reason to believe that more people will fall away with the new absenteeism limit, I wonder how the Minister of Knowledge dares to go out on such an experiment without having made a real effort for those who are already falling out of high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e546	As I said, I believe that the students who are struggling with sickness, mental illness and care tasks are well cared for by this absence code. It will also solve one of the problems with the old absence code, namely that if you had an hour or two with a psychologist, for example, chances of getting away all day were great. That issue is now going to be gone. But then I also believe that we should assess – and we should – whether the school and state's obligation to follow-up students who fall out needs to be stronger and clearer than today. It is a general obligation to follow up the student in all sorts of ways that are statutory, but I believe we should also consider an increased obligation to have a follow-up system, and will come back to Stortinget if there is something we decide to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e551	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e554	The working party wants rules of absence which are understandable, which are manageable for schools and which do not give unreasonable results to students. Three different options were sent out in the hearing on the rules of absence. One of the options chosen by the Minister of Knowledge was to provide the principal with discretion on the basis of a given framework, so that there was no undue response from the absence rules for the students. The Minister of Knowledge chose the most rigid solution, such as: As a result, in small school subjects with 75 hours of schooling, four hours of absence over an entire year will lead to a student who has exceeded the threshold of absence not being assessed in the subject. Absence may have many reasons, the student may be fully competent, the teacher may feel that there is a basis for assessment, but the school does not have the opportunity to make adjustments. The question is whether the minister stands firm in the most rigid and rigid version — because he has such low confidence in the country’s school leaders that he does not think they can use discretion, while at the same time making demands on the students and using the discretion to the best of both learning and getting the most through the school run.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e562	Firstly, it is good if the Workers' Party stands on what they have said before, and wants a limit of absence – that is good. Second, it's also in what we've sent out, room for some insight, among other things. related to the evaluation of documentation and what is documentation. It is well described in the circular that Norwegian principals have certainly already read. Thirdly, there's a balance, because it's tempting to think that here you should have a very large room for understanding. But what it will also lead to is discrimination from school to school. One of the things I've been busy about is that this is going to be a system that's predictable for the students, and that's not going to put too much pressure on the principals either. There shall be clear rules to deal with – some room of discretion related to the documentation, but not full room for discretion. This was pointed out by several hearing bodies, namely that if you have too much discretion, it leads to discrimination for the students, and the system will be very easily perceived as unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e569	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e572	There may be good reasons to reintroduce an absence limit when we know that absence has increased by 30 pst. since the possibility to operate at such a limit was lifted in 2009. When we give young people a right to secondary education, it may be natural that they also have some obligations. But I'm afraid we'll get a little bit of rigid regulation. Blue Cross is concerned about some student groups, that the absence limit may have negative consequences for them. This applies, for example: students who are in the periphery of drug abuse, or students who simply need some training to master school everyday life — students who may have a slightly high absence at first and who quickly reach the limit of 10 pst. The Blue Cross wanted an opportunity for school leaders to decide that students should be given the opportunity to assess when they believe that there is a basis for doing so. They did not hear about this in the hearing, and I now understand that the Minister of Knowledge is not particularly willing to reconsider this either. But what will the Minister of Knowledge do then for school leaders and teachers to be able to keep these students at school, and that they do not fall away?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e579	If a student is struggling with drug abuse or mental illness and the school knows that, there is every possibility in this legislation to facilitate documented absences, and to ensure, for example, that: are involved in treatment, may have independent study work at the institution in which you are staying. This shall not apply as an absence. There's every possibility that it won't in itself lead to the student getting over 10 pst. The problem arises if there is a student who has drug problems that the school does not know about. This is actually going to be anecdotal, but I've met students who tell us about 100–150–200–300 hours of absence from school without anyone actually going in and asking them why they were so much gone. I believe that having an absence limit is a way of making it very clear that the school must address students who already have high absences from the very beginning, and action must be taken together with other parts of the public utility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e586	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e589	I probably belong to those who are skeptical about having such a rigid boundary as the Council of State adds up to. If we imagine that there's a boy in high school who's struggling with mastery feelings, who's struggling with motivation, and who wakes up every day, thinks, "Can I go to school, or can't I go to school today? Then we all agree that the best thing for him is to go to school. We all agree that completing high school is the key to a good life in the future -- it's at least the key to getting better at the statistics ahead -- because we all want it for our kids. When you lie there in the morning and assess whether you're going to school or not, and you don't have the motivation needed to get off the farm, I wonder what the council thinks is going to be better in the everyday life of that boy – with such a rigid rule that he's now putting up with?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e594	I believe that for just a few students – this does not apply to all – who choose to be at home for different reasons, and who are not ill or have health problems, I keep them out of here, this limit of absenteeism may be an important motivation. One of the things we know is that those that fall from, often start with absence in single hours, it increases, and then they go away more and more of the time. Having clear frameworks to deal with believes I can help. If this borders on what other parts of the auxiliaries should have to do, whether it's a health care provider, a hub, a psychologist or a health care provider, it's essential to solve these problems. So it's not the limit of absence that creates mental disorders, but the limit of absenteeism can make the school get an extra pressure to catch up early on students who have absences and take action. But we need to do more to get down the dropout – and it doesn't matter what this absenteeism limit is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e599	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e602	My question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We live in a global breeding season. Power ratios in the world are changing. But some things are constant. Geography has not changed, Norway's position on the world map: large sea areas towards the north, border with Russia. For Norway, the north must be and remain our main strategic focus. It is in our own interest to preserve these areas as a low-voltage area. We serve more cooperation and contact, not less. I want to give my full support to the government's criticism of Russia and protests against the illegal annexation of Crimea. And I'm supporting the sanctions 100 percent. My question is not about challenging this, but about what we're doing beyond this. For cooperation, new content and measures need to be filled in. Industry development, environmental management, exploitation of marine resources, transport, defence and research in the north are not just about district policies. It is about developing the national self-interest, and it is important for Norway as a whole. It must be followed up with commitment. From dialogue to action, the government said when they launched their Northern Territory bet. But what's the action going on? One concrete tool is regional Barents cooperation. In northern lights today, an employee at Norway's Arctic University, Campus Kirkenes, asks if we have done enough. He says there are good reasons today to develop old and new forms of cooperation. My question is, what has the government done to strengthen Barents cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e613	The representative of Huitfeldt is absolutely right that Russia is a constant factor in our foreign and security policy. Russia is part of Europe, but it is not in all questions of Europe. We are experiencing, as the representative was also involved, a more unpredictable Russia. We have seen this in the handling of Ukraine, we have seen it also in Syria, and we have seen it in the context of the situation of civil society in Russia, the situation of sexual minorities in Russia and freedom of the press. At the same time as we point out these challenges, while dealing with an asymmetric military situation in the north, large capacity on the Russian side, we deal with it with root and anchor fasts in our NATO membership. But in parallel with this, we have been able to maintain a good and constructive dialogue on the north. In Arctic Councils, we cooperate very well, including the continuation of Barents cooperation, cooperation on the management of important fishing resources in the Barents Sea, cooperation on search and rescue, cooperation on nuclear safety, cooperation on the environment. Two weeks ago, there were top-level consultations in Moscow, and Secretary of State Hattrem is having similar consultations on the broad agenda that I am now presenting, in May. We have also had meetings at political level on nuclear cooperation. So within the more demanding framework that has arisen, and also with the sanctions at the bottom, we have continued a cooperation and constructive dialogue with Russia, where we, among other things, have. found a solution to the major challenge of Storskog.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e622	Yes, it's a more demanding framework. But at such a time, the Foreign Minister should not be careful to continue what has happened, but should develop new initiatives. It's about supporting the work of the Barents Secretariat, it's about supporting the work done by the three Nordic states, and it's about supporting new projects. So I repeat my question: What has the government done – not to continue, but to strengthen Barents cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e630	There is something that is not entirely consistent on this issue, because one has to assume that there is a new situation in the handling of and in relations with Russia. Among other things, we have not met in the Norwegian-Russian Trade Commission since the violation of international law in Ukraine in the annexation of Crimea. There has been a broad consensus on this. The sanctions have also led to a number of things that we did in the past that we can't do now. However, in a number of areas, we have continued – but also strengthened – cooperation. Among other things, we have strengthened the funding for the Barents Secretariat, so that people-to-people cooperation can be extended. We have also strengthened cooperation in Arctic Councils, which have been important. We have a new supplementary agreement with Russia on nuclear safety last autumn. And there was an understanding of the migration situation in Storskog, which was of great importance not least for Norway. So I had hoped that the representative would be satisfied with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e637	There will be follow-up questions – Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e640	To be honest, I think there are few in the north who are impressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the government's power of action in the North Region policy. In the past, we had a foreign minister who traveled a lot in the north and engaged heavily in the policy of the north. Now it is that after a dedicated speech at the University of Tromsø in the autumn of 2013, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has hardly been able to see in a Northern Region context. It has largely been words and not action. The initiatives and new ideas come largely from outside the government. The regional role, e.g. to the counties of the people-to-people cooperation, is not strengthened. The counties are affected by budget cuts in development funds and infrastructure. The leaks about the defence's long-term plan are alarming, and there is no increased bet. And the increases in appropriations that have been, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs has previously boasted, come largely as a result of decisions by the red-green government, such as a research vessel or hospital in the Church. For this reason, I would like to repeat the question: What new initiatives has the Foreign Minister taken and is the Foreign Minister planning to take in order to strengthen the Northern Region policy, so that Norway remains the leader of the Northern Region policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e649	I'm a little in doubt about what the representative wants to achieve with this question. It didn't happen many months after we took over in 2013 before the representative was out and said that now the North Region bet is not what it was under the red-green. So I think the representative has been the most concerned about the map for quite a long time and not the terrain. In the more demanding situation that has arisen in relation to Russia, in terms of growth and value creation in the north, we have achieved results where growth in the north is higher than in the rest of the country. As I also said in the reply to the representative Huitfeldt, we have stepped up the funding to the Barents Secretariat – I heard nothing about that – to strengthen the people-to-people cooperation. We have established Arctic Economic Council in Tromsø, which is very important. So now we have both the indigenous Secretariat, the Arctic Economic Council and the Arctic Council Secretariat there. We've been given appropriations for the new Present. I can list a lot of individual things, but what we've been able to do in the first place is that North Norway appears to be a growing region. I hope that the representative does not aim to talk down his own region, as I can see that it was done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e658	Then the oral question procedure is changed, and we move on to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e670	There will be a wide range of changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this respect. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Hadia Tajik to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance. Question 3, from the representative of Odd Omland to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed. Question 9, from the representative Jette F. Christensen to the Minister for Economic Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him. Question 11, from the representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 12, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Health and Welfare, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Immigration and Integration, has been transferred to the Minister for Culture who is directing him. Question 17, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister for Fisheries, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 21, from Kari Henriksen's representative to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who is directly responsible. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e700	This question, from the representative of Hadia Tajik to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e703	«The record high unemployment rate has a high cost. Thousands of people are permanently disabled and are out of work. At the same time, the competence of Norway is lost and its capacity for long-term migration is reduced. The government's highest contribution to unemployment is tax cut. It's been over two years since the government removed the inheritance tax and made the first cuts in the property tax. Can the Minister of Finance provide figures showing the number of jobs created as a result of these cuts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e715	Firstly, I do not know what cover Hadia Tajik has to claim that thousands of people are permanently disabled as a result of the increasing unemployment. The last figures I have are that measured as a proportion of the working-age population, there was a decrease in the number of people on health-related benefits from 2013 to 2015. So Tajik also claims that the biggest effort of the government to combat unemployment is tax cuts. That's wrong. 14 pst. of the increased space for action that this government has been using since we joined, has gone to different types of tax cuts. 86 pst. has gone to other things. We have used a wide range of instruments to combat the increasing unemployment: We have put forward a targeted package of measures to meet the South and Western countries. We have increased the traffic budget by about the same amount as we have spent on tax reductions. We've put forward a youth package. We have increased the apprentice grant. We have increased the number of sites reserved for young people. We have strengthened Innovation Norway. We have put forward a business plan. We have put forward a maritime strategy. It's working on an industrial message. We have made changes to the day-to-day pay legislation. I think it's good that there's a broad commitment to increasing unemployment. There is no doubt that increased unemployment is demanding for those affected by it. At the same time, we have to recognise that the Norwegian economy is in a very special situation. We have had significant challenges as a result of the oil price drop and the need to cut costs in oil-related industries. Unfortunately, this leads to significant migration challenges in the regions and industries affected by it. At the same time, in other parts of the country, we see a completely different development. Then it is important that we use the right tools and a broad range of tools to strengthen opportunities for growth and value creation where the challenges of migration are greatest, without destroying the growth base where it is really coming up. These are demanding challenges that this government is taking seriously. But we are very busy facilitating the creation of new jobs, and that is a prerequisite for increasing employment that we have jobs, and those jobs must be created by some, preferably businesses. We need profitable businesses that are willing to hire more people, and that is what the government is doing through the broad set of instruments, which also include, of course, a competitive tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e763	The relationship between increasing unemployment and the danger of becoming unemployed is well documented, among other things. by professionals like Knut Røed, so I recommend the Minister of Finance to brief on it. When I point out that the big bet you are in this crisis situation is a big cut in taxes, it is based on your own numbers. If we accept the government's claim that they spend 4 billion. kr against unemployment, a number such as: Stavanger Aftenblad has proven that the number is not correct, and one then uses that number, it's the tax code that corresponds to almost five times more than that. In turn, more professionals, the Financial Crisis Selection, the SSB and various research environments have found that public investment is a far more effective tool for employment than tax cuts. The SSB even writes that tax cuts constitute a small fraction of the impact of public investment or production. So I ask, doesn't the Minister of Finance believe in what the professionals say?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e770	That's exactly why the government has spent most of the increased room for action on increased investment, because we know it works. That's why we've strengthened the movement effort by significant amounts far beyond what the Workers' Party was able to do when they were in government, that's why we've strengthened the research effort, that's why we've strengthened the efforts in the education sector – because we know it works. Yeah, we've also reduced taxes, but not because we think it's a cyclical tool. We've done it because we need a competitive tax system that allows more companies to establish themselves in Norway, so that's the prerequisite for getting more jobs. I believe that it would be much more sober for the debate on the Workers' Party also adhered to the facts. It was once so, at least, that the Workers' Party believed that the increased room for action should also go to tax cuts, but it is possible that it was the Workers' Party under Jens Stoltenberg's leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e777	The government has cut taxes by nearly 20 billion. kr. There are several times as many people as you would have liked to meet the unemployment rate. Then I register that the Minister of Finance won't talk about the big bet of the government, simply cut taxes, and that the Minister of Finance doesn't really want to recognise what the professionals say, simply that a need to spend more money on public investment than it does on tax cuts, if it's one thing, is to have an impact on the number of jobs. So I think, will the Minister of Finance at least extend a hand to the almost 140 000 unemployed and their families and their communities by recognizing that this is a crisis for the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e784	There is no doubt that increased unemployment is a crisis for those affected by it, and that is precisely why it is so incredibly important that we use all the means we have to create new jobs. The most important thing we can do for those who now lose their jobs is to create a basis for them to get a new one. Then we have to use all the tools. It is – again – wrong when Hadia Tajik claims that we have spent the large amount of money on tax cuts. I acknowledge every tax reduction this government has carried out, and that is because it is tricked. We have also done so on advice from, among other things. The OECD, which believes that one of the smartest steps to strengthen its competitiveness, is to reduce taxes. But we've just spent the largest room of action on investments. We have increased the traffic budget by as much as we have reduced the taxes. We're now using 66 billion. kr for the knowledge sector. We're using over 32 billion. kr for research. So if you put it in perspective, the government has used a set of instruments, and we know that they're going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e795	‘The government has cut taxes by over 21 billion. crowns, mostly for those who already have the most. This priority has been justified by the government's intention to increase value creation and employment. The working party has previously pointed out that the government spends 50 million. $ a day of tax changes, while there have been 50 new unemployed persons each day. What is the employment effect of the tax cuts that the government has carried out so far?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e802	Here, too, there is a mistake in the allegations made by the representative of the Workers' Party. Firstly, the government has reduced taxes, not by over 21 billion. kr, but with 18.5 br. kr. Second, it's not right that we've given the most relief to those who already have the most. The truth is that 14 pst. of the increased space for action has gone to tax reliefs, of which only 4 have pst. reduced taxes on wealth. But the government has seen the need to facilitate a competitive tax system by reducing corporate taxes, by doing something about ownership taxes. It is also about taxes on wealth, and it is about making it both interesting and attractive for others to set up jobs in Norway, while at the same time taking care of the Norwegian egg communities that are now clinging to their life works around the Norwegian coast. I think it is very strange that the Workers' Party is not willing to extend a hand to family-run companies that have built values through generations, employed thousands of people around Norway and contributed to the local environments in which they are established. That's the truth and the reason for the value that comes out of many of the family-owned businesses. But once again, I think it would be an advantage in the discussion on instruments to combat unemployment that the Workers' Party was at least related to the facts. The assumption of increased employment is more jobs, and then we have to have more profitable enterprises that will as well as ability to employ more. This is precisely why the government has implemented several instruments. Yes, we have put in place a better and more competitive tax system than under the previous government. We have increased investments massively to different transport investments. We've been focusing on knowledge and research that we know are good contributors to growth and value creation, and we've done it through a wide range of other plans, not least the founding plan and other things that we know will be good and important contributions at a time when the Norwegian economy is going to undergo a transformation. Once, as I also said in reply to Mr Tajik's representative, when the Workers' Party put forward the action rule back in 2001, the Workers' Party, at least at the time, felt that the scope for action should also go to tax cuts. I don't know when on the road, from 2001 until now, that the Workers' Party lost sight of it, but at least it's quite obvious that the Workers' Party we see today is not as concerned with competitive taxes as they once were.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e813	The fact from the Ministry of Finance's own department is that the taxes and charges have changed by 21 billion. kr. We can discuss that more, and I expect that we will discuss it further. But I just have to say that the Minister of Finance still says that she is too tax cut, it may not be surprising, and that there is no clear answer to the employment effect that these tax cuts have given. The passivity of the government in the face of the crisis is striking, and I must remind Siv Jensen that the consequences for people are great. In today’s VG, you can read about Kristine, 22 years old, from Eigersund. She has applied for 50 jobs, is unemployed and knows, as she herself says, that no one wants her. When all the bills are paid, she has 500 kroner left. The rapporteur in Eigersund says the same thing, the unemployment there has increased by 130 pst, and they have 25 pst. youth unemployment, in a small municipality; For Eigersund, the dynamic effects of tax cuts are absent. The values the Minister of Finance talks about are not being translated into new jobs. So what is the Minister of Finance's response to Kristine and to the rapporteur in Eigersund, who is calling for action and who sees that there will be more unemployed, no more jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e820	I have great sympathy for all those who now experience losing their jobs. The best answer to them, when they are now looking for a job after work without necessarily getting a new commitment, is that we are laying the basis for creating more jobs. That's actually the most important thing we can do. Therefore, I believe it is wrong to claim that the government meets this with passivity. We have met it with many instruments, with a package of measures. We've met it with a package aimed at youth. We have met it through Innovation Norway, through the Founding Plan, through a maritime strategy and a wide range of other measures that are in addition to the strong growth in investment in infrastructure, and the commitment to research and education, to mention the most important things. But once again, the basis for employment is more businesses, and can really the Workers' Party, with its hand on the heart, say that their answer, which is to increase the taxes by over 10 billion. NOK 28 million. kr every day – is a contribution to more jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e825	I would like to remind the Minister of Finance that rhetoric does not create any more new jobs, and I have still not received an answer to the employment effect of tax cuts. The finance minister is busy with numbers, I've seen that. That's why I've gone to the national accounts, and there's one that shows that during the eight red-green years, 45,000 jobs were created on average every year. Now there are 23 000 new jobs created under this government, so fewer new jobs are created, the rhetoric of the Minister of Finance does not match the figures. Then it is worrying – also for the Minister of Finance – that even if you have a long list of brawls and think you have a lot of measures, it doesn't work. The action package was just words. There were no concrete measures. There are fewer jobs created now than it did before. My question is therefore: When does the Minister of Finance expect the dynamic employment effects to occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e832	I am quite obviously concerned about the increasing unemployment, and that is precisely why the government is spending all its time not filling this with empty rhetoric, which I record that the Workers' Party is doing. We are spending our time promoting action, proposals on proposals, that meet the challenges that large parts of our country are now facing. So I think we have to admit that some of this is going to take time, because when the whole oil and gas industry gets smaller, the growth in new jobs has to come somewhere else. The prerequisites for this must be that some people dare to invest in the new jobs, in the new businesses. This involves both a competitive tax system that makes companies invest here and not in our neighbouring countries, and it is about framework conditions that make it attractive to be in Norway and hire more. That's why the government is using a wide range of instruments to get it done, and we're not going to give up until evolution turns around.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e841	This question, from the representative of Odd Omland to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e844	‘The South has been hit by high levels of unemployment and there is a great need for short-term action. Until now, the government has taken a passive view of this precarious situation. During the financial crisis, the Stoltenberg government presented a package of measures to municipalities with counter-cyclical measures, which was very successful. The county board of KS Agder, which is now concerned, sent a detailed list from the municipalities to the government on 15 April with approx. 1.2 B.C.E. in projects that can be implemented as counter-cyclical measures. What will the Council of State answer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e851	As can be seen from the question from the representative Odd Omland, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has received letters from the Head of State of KS Agder. It is commendable that KS Agder has taken initiatives to identify relevant projects that can increase employment and value creation in the Agder counties. Then it is that the government has not had a passive attitude to the situation – on the contrary. We decided in the harvest a government budget that contributes to work, activity and conversion throughout the country, and the overall economic policy now works against unemployment. It may also be worth noting that few, if any, have called for increased taxes in the current economic situation. The situation in oil-related industries is demanding and particularly difficult for those who lose their jobs. For individuals and for us as a society, it is important that jobs lost in the private sector can be replaced by new and profitable jobs in the private sector that can finance our welfare systems. Economic policy helps to keep the activity of the economy up. The Government promoted in the 2016 State Budget a specific action package for increased employment targeted in particular at the South and the West. The action package is now being rolled out and will, in particular, affect industries and areas that are hardest hit. The government is following developments closely and will be able to propose further measures if the labour market situation so warrants, and in this context we greatly appreciate the constructive input of KS Agder and others, which we take into account in our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e862	I think it's the same answer we get from the government – it's a little wait and see. We see that the situation in the oil industry now also spreads to other industries. Last week I visited Kruse Smith, who has its head office in Kristiansand, a contractor company with over 900 employees in the construction industry, with offices throughout the South West, and the order reserve is falling. They stated that they had not noticed anything about the package of measures from the public to improve the situation, as the government, and now the Council of State, has said they have for the South-West. At the same time, they expressed the good impact of the 2008 package of measures in the context of the financial crisis. Can the Council of State say where the measures that the government says they have delivered are, and to which this and the corresponding companies should have seen anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e869	First of all, it is no wonder that the government responds the same way – something else would probably be alarming. It is then that the representative of Omland is constantly bringing forward the financial crisis in 2008. Then I think it's time to look around. This is not a financial crisis. We're not in a situation where we're going back to start. This is not a capital market to be repaired. We had oil prices then that we're not near now. So the oil price has fallen from over $100 the barrel, and we've been down to less than 30. It has consequences, and that is why we now need to change both in the short and long term. Maritime strategy, business plan, changes in the work environment law, changes in Nav legislation, BIO funds for businesses – that is, both through the state budget, in the short and long term, and ongoing measures taken by the government. We have always taken action because we have seen that it has been necessary. Finally, we have notified changes to the rules on permitting because we considered that the situation had come to that point that it could... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e876	As I said, companies don't really see so much of these measures. In the South, we see extensive redundancies in oil-related activities, which the Council of State had in mind. NOV, which has its head office here, has reduced the number of employees through a third round of redundancies from 5,000 to 2,000 here in the country, and does not overlook the possibility of more rounds. In a call to the southern bench, NITO Agder has highlighted strong concerns about the situation, and in a survey of their members it is 26 pst. they're afraid of the job. They have also asked us to press for the KS action package, as they will help ensure that engineers retain their skills and that they do not confuse and disappear. Does the Council share NITO's concern that this competence may disappear?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e883	I have been to NOV on several occasions. They have not called for a package of measures. They have asked for measures related, inter alia, to: for company training. It took two days, and then the government had actually initiated it. We are all concerned about the situation we are in, and therefore the government is committed to keeping employment going both in the short and long term. When the transport budget is increased by 20 billion Since we joined, it gives jobs to engineers and entrepreneurs, but it also improves the availability of goods and services in the longer term. So we have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. Enterprises need to be relocated, market conditions are demanding, and there is nothing the government can do about it, but we can contribute to measures that can be implemented through health businesses, through prisons, through the higher education sector, and so do we.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e894	‘In the 2016 State budget, it was decided to reduce the price of NSB’s monthly and annual cards by 20 pst, and it was set at 41,4 million. krones. In his reply to written questions by the representative Sivertsen, the Council of State answers on 20 January this year that he is doing what he can to ensure that the budget decision is implemented as quickly as possible. I have not registered that there has been any price reduction on the NSB monthly and annual card yet. Can the State Council update the status and progress of this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e901	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is seeing to it that the government is implementing the policy that today's majority in the UK. Here it is very good for travellers, both by rail and by public transport in the cities and in the country for the rest. We are working intently to follow up the comment contained in the 2016 budget, and we are also discussing this in depth with the proposers and with those who have agreed to the reconciliation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, so that we implement this in the best possible way in line with the intentions and wishes of the settlement partners. There are some technical challenges to how this is to be programmed, and how to make it work in the best possible way, but as I said, this is to be done as quickly as it can be done. But it is also important that we take care of the intentions of that proposal. So this is going to work, and it's going to work, in line with the decisions that the Storting has made. At the same time, let me say that I am very pleased with the cooperation the government has with the Christian People's Party and the Left, because in this area we have made sure that we are very far ahead of the form in terms of the investment on the railway. Fortunately, it's not just a price that matters because people want to travel by rail. It also means something about the quality of the infrastructure, it means something about reliability and predictability of the use of trains – that they come, that they are on the road, and that there is better space. We know, unfortunately, that on many routes today are problems with crowded trains. We know that the maintenance of the railway has not been good enough for a long time – due to double the previous two peak periods. Now we're reducing the maturity. This means that it is not only at lower prices that some travellers will see quality improvements. One will see that now more train sets are actually purchased than ever before. We're getting replaced, we're getting renewed, we're getting expanded fleet used by NSB. There are several departures on most of the train sections now compared to just two years ago. This means that on, for example: Oslo S is now more than 100 more flights each day compared to when we took over 30 months ago. NSB and CargoNet may notify that their unforeseen breakdowns due to poor infrastructure have been reduced by two thirds in the last two years, as a result of the maintenance promise that has now taken place. So while we're working to achieve this budgetary unity between the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, we're also working on implementing all of the other budgetary units to make travellers feel much better overall. I'm glad about that, because if we're going to make people travel collectively, we have to make sure that the alternative that public transport represents is better than the one that people offer to drive their own car. So we're starting to see the traces that we're actually achieving now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e918	It was very good in what the Council of State said now, and the Council of State is doing very well. But there was no answer to the question I asked. The questionnaire is for the Storting to ask questions to the government, and then one must also expect the government to answer the questions asked. So at least there's not so much eagerness on the part of the Minister of Transport to follow up on what the majority of the population decided – and it wasn't just in the form of a remark; it was set at 41.4 million. kr in the budget to reduce the monthly and annual card rates. The idea was that it would happen in 2016, i.e. from 1 January. Now it's almost May 1st, and yet nothing has happened. The train passengers wonder when this will happen. So simply, the question is, when, from what date, will the price of monthly cards and annual cards be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e923	I'm a little surprised by that tirad, because in the question, as I read it and as it's actually advanced, it says: ‘Can the State Council provide an update of the status and further progress in this matter?’ I gave that status. So the fact that I get criticism because I might not have answered other questions that the representative Myrli had intended to ask, I can't actually take responsibility for. But now I have a new question, and then I can answer it. And the answer here is that this is a budgetary settlement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. I'm very happy if the Workers' Party also supports this which we now get, because that means that the Workers' Party is moving in the right direction. So I've already said that there are some technical things that need to be put in place here. We have to figure out where the border line is going, because on some of these sections, there is a cooperation with local collectives, and some places aren't. We also have to make it work so that there won't be much illogical results of this. There we have a good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, which gives me the impression that here we are on the right track, and then I think it's the ones I'm going to be most busy with to get it to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e937	The Council of State says that the Workers' Party is now supporting the proposal. We supported the proposal in the budget debate. It didn't come from us, it has to be right. We saw enough that there were some technical challenges with that, but we chose to support it, and we also added the 41.4 million. kr into our alternative budget because we thought it was a good idea. But we assumed that the Minister of Transport had checked that this was practicable. After all, when the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left present proposals and the Minister of Transport are from the Progress Party, we must assume that he has used the back channels to check that this is feasible. So we're going to write 1 May in a couple of days, and so nobody can say when there's going to be a reduction in the price of maps and monthly cards at NSB. It's not about the government parties, about the Minister of Transport or about the Workers' Party, it's about the travelers on the NSB who were promised cheaper tickets. When will they get cheaper monthly cards and annual cards?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e944	It shall receive in 2016 the budget to which it applies. But as the representative Myrli himself said, the Workers' Party was sceptical about this because they saw that there were some technical challenges. So all of a sudden, all of the technical challenges are gone when the government is going to implement everything, because then it's a little more concerned with the government. I think it's a little bit strange approach. If you see for yourself that there are technical challenges, you should also respect it when the Council of State points out that the technical challenges we have to solve first, and this comes into effect. But this has not been cancelled, as the representative Myrli gives the impression. This is a decision that the Stortinget has made because we now have a bourgeois majority who really want to bet on the railway, even more so than the representative Myrli wanted – it was also a good growth under the previous government. We have to implement this, but we have to make sure that it actually works so that when the travelers arrive at the station, the system works – not just that you have promised it. I also believe that the representative Myrli, after himself sitting in the Ministry of Transport a long time ago, should be aware that adopting something at the end of December does not mean that all computer systems in the NSB are automatically updated two weeks later. It actually needs to be changed, adjusted, programmed and then implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e957	I allow myself to ask the following questions to Minister for Foreign Affairs Børge Burnde: ‘We have recently seen TV images from East Turkey, where the war between the authorities and the PKK affects the civilian population. In Oslo, Kurds have demonstrated against the Turkish government's bombing of civilian targets. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs address the situation with Turkish authorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e966	In recent months, fighting between Turkish security forces and the Kurdish Workers' Party, the PKK, has created great suffering and cost too many lives. It is very regrettable that it broke the dialogue and convergence between the authorities and Kurdish representatives over two years in the summer of 2015. The violent conflict over the increased rights of the Kurdish minority in Turkey has continued for over 30 years. It is still Turkey's biggest political challenge and the most pressing and unresolved security issue. Both Turkish authorities, the EU and the United States have listed PKK as a terrorist organisation. The regional picture makes the situation difficult. PKK holds hold in Northern Iraq, while PYD/YPG holds in Syria. Developments in neighbouring countries and contacts between PKK and PYD/YPG reinforce the concern of Turkish authorities for Kurdish separatism. Violence and armed power are not acceptable policy instruments. This conflict must be resolved politically in Turkey. This view is firmly anchored in Norwegian foreign policy and has been claimed for a long time. In line with a number of other countries, including the EU and the United States, Norway consistently encourages Turkish authorities to resume the dialogue process with a view to finding a policy solution to the Kurdish problem. During my visit to Ankara on 12 January, I also invited the head of the Pro-Kurdy Party of the HDP, which has the third largest party group in Parliament, to return to the track of reconciliation. I also took up with President Erdogan, whom I met, that the initiative he took in 2003, which was important for starting a reconciliation process, was a road to recovery. This message, as I now mentioned, was also repeated by State Secretary Hattrem when the HDP leader visited Oslo on 14 April. It is worrying that one of our allies seems to have to use military instruments in an internal conflict. At the same time, Turkey has the right to defend itself against both borderline violations and terrorist attacks. Such reactions must always be proportionate and take place within a framework of international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e981	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the answer, and I agree that the regional picture is exacerbating the situation and making it more inconspicuous, and that this matter needs to be resolved politically – it really has to be at last. The EU Head of Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, has now encouraged Turkey and the PKK to sit at the negotiating table, and this happens after Turkey has bombed the eastern areas almost continuously after the ceasefire broke down. Since then, 200 civilians have been killed, in addition to several hundred members of the Turkish security forces – there are quite a few – and at least 300 Kurdish warriors. In addition, we know that the PKK also assists its brothers on the other side of the border in the fight against ISIL, so it's a very complicated situation. But I think it is very important that the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs is also active in a matter like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e988	And we're active. As I said, I visited Ankara in January and had a long conversation with President Erdogan, where I addressed these questions, also about proportionality and proportionality. There is no doubt that the PKK has launched completely unacceptable terrorist attacks inside Turkey – we must also be very aware of that. So of course the authorities have the right to answer this, but it should be, as I also said in my reply to the representative Nybakk, in international law, and it should be proportionality, proportionality, around this. But what was even more important to me in the conversation with President Erdogan and Minister of Foreign Affairs Cavusoglu was to find out that the process that the AK party started in 2003, which was a new start on the relationship between the Kurds and the Turks, must be recovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e995	The last thing I agree very much with, and of course it's also true that the PKK has attacked, but today's situation is causing the Kurdish population in the east very great suffering. There are cities and villages that are being crushed by Turkish bombs. It is a situation that cannot continue, and it is also said by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Turkey is our ally. This is one of the reasons why it is important that both the EU and other NATO allies have a dialogue with Turkey on this and address this. I am very aware that the situation we have today, that Turkey is taking heavy refugee loads, as well as that we have an agreement between the EU and Turkey, may complicate this picture, but it must not lead to us not taking up the warfare that Turkey is engaged in in in the East, and trying to find a political solution between Turkey and the PKK.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1002	It is true that the representative Nybakk states that there is no country that has accepted as many refugees and asylum seekers as Turkey in recent years – 3 million. It is also the case that Turkey is in a situation where they are now under attack by both the ISIL terrorist organisation and the terrorist attacks that the PKK is behind. As NATO ally, it was important that NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg was in Ankara a week and a half ago. He had a clear political agenda and also a security policy agenda. We agree with the alliance that Turkey must act in harmony with international law – when they respond to possible attacks, they must be proportional. I agree with Mr Nybakk that the humanitarian conditions in the eastern parts of Turkey are very worrying, and we are following this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1015	My question is as follows: ‘Has the government granted concessions to the EU in the context of the current Article 19 negotiations and how many jobs are estimated to be lost in Norway as a result of these concessions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1022	Article 19 of the EEA Agreement provides that the parties are to review trade in basic agricultural products at intervals of two years. The last agreement was negotiated by the previous government and entered into force on 1 January 2012, with which the representative Mr Schlagsvold Vedum will be known. In line with the EEA Agreement, the Government launched new negotiations last February. So far, three negotiating rounds have been carried out, on the last 5 April of this year. Both the EU and Norway have presented their demands in the negotiations, and there is agreement that a new negotiating meeting should be held. I would like to say that for negotiable reasons, I cannot go into the substance of what the positions are like today. Negotiations have been constructive, but it is far too early to say something about when the negotiations will be concluded and what the final outcome will be. But a finished agreement will normally be submitted to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1031	Looking at the developments in trade in agricultural products between Norway and the EU from 1995 to today, there is no doubt that the EU is the winning party. EU imports in 2015 amounted to 36.8 billion. kr, and Norway’s exports were around 6 billion. kr. Looking at the content of the Article 19 Protocol, it says that it should be mutually beneficial, and it should also be done within the agricultural policy of the country in question. There's no reason for us to give a single concession at all. Could any concessions granted have an impact on Norwegian agricultural policy in the future, or are there so few negotiations that it will have no impact on the agricultural policy we are pursuing in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1038	I think it is very clear through the fact that Battle violence Vedum is against the whole EEA agreement. I note the fact that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is behind it, and it involves clear commitments that we should negotiate regularly on basic agricultural products, on interaction and exchange between Norway and the European Union. I would also like to remind you that the red-greens conducted such a round of negotiations in 2010, where the new quotas – 2700 tonnes on cheese and 2700 tonnes on meat – were quotas from the EU to Norway which became available from 2012. Of course, Norwegian interests are the most important. There can be no doubt that this is the government's starting point for the negotiations we are now in the middle of. However, compared to the large EU output in this area, Norwegian agriculture is of a completely different size. So even though it's working on innovation, even though new products are being developed that can also go the other way, it's clear that there's never going to be one to one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1047	Agriculture is not a direct part of the EEA Agreement. It is a separate article, Article 19, which regulates trade in agricultural products. We are two parties, where no one is obliged to give. We've given a lot from the Norwegian side over time, and there's no reason we're going to give anything more. The government I was part of also made improvements in customs protection, because we thought it was necessary to ensure Norwegian employment, Norwegian jobs and Norwegian value creation. There is now a major crisis in EU agriculture, because a lot of EU agriculture is export-oriented – it is seen in Danish agriculture and Swedish agriculture that there are major challenges. But we have to be in charge of our industry and our jobs. Does the Council agree that Norway should not initially give anything because we have enough challenges in our own country with jobs and employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1056	As I have said, it is absolutely impossible, and it would be totally wrong for me to go into what is Norwegian positions in these negotiations, but I totally disagree with the description of Battle Violence Vedum – if I understood him correctly – by a Norwegian agriculture in crisis. It is not Norwegian agriculture, and it is also important to take care of agriculture further. That's the government's intention. Many measures have been put in place both to bring about more innovation and research, to further develop Norwegian agriculture and to develop niche products that can be able to operate markets with great success. We now have the starting point from these negotiations that of course we should take care of Norwegian interests and Norwegian jobs in the best possible way, but I am not saying that it cannot happen that there is a result that makes it have consequences here at home as well. It's obvious – it can get all kinds of contracts. However, this agreement shall be submitted to the Enlargement for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1065	‘Travel life has many important jobs in the districts. This does not happen by itself. The industry must have a long-term perspective and predictability, and needs drag help to extend the seasons. So far, the government's contribution has been to increase VAT, cut market outlets, and lack of broadband investment. The leader of the NHO Travel Life has repeatedly pointed to broadband as the most important way to secure these workplaces. While we are waiting for the Travel Life message, what will the Council of State do to secure travel life jobs in the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1072	The government is pursuing a policy of work, activity and change, and the government budget is based on this. The rationale for pursuing a specific travel policy is that the tourism industry should also have the highest possible value creation and safe jobs. In this way, tourism policy well supports the overall objective of enterprise policy. The tourism industry provides many jobs and contributes to local development both in cities and districts. A travel policy that facilitates a more competitive travel life will increase the value creation in and around the tourism industry and increase the profitability of tourism operators throughout the country. Travel businesses are competitive enterprises which in this context do not differ significantly from enterprises in other industries. Changes in the inheritance tax and in the property tax, the labour-environment law and the tendering rules are essential framework conditions for travellers, as for other traders. The growth potential of the tourism industry in Norway depends on a number of factors. Some of the conditions are within the control of the Norwegian authorities, while others are outside. Happily, numbers show that the number of nights spent increased by 4.4 pst. from 2014 to 2015, and we know that a weak exchange rate contributes to this. In 2016, the EUR 231.5 million earmarked for travel activities in Innovation Norway is EUR 231.5 million. kr. Much of this appropriation is used for the marketing of Norway as a destination. It's an activity that benefits the entire travel life. In addition, travel life enjoys the services of Innovation Norway at 36 outpatient offices, which also work against travel life. The transport budget has gone up from 41.4 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 59,7 billion. kr in 2016. This is investment in infrastructure that benefits all industries, not least the tourism industry. Finally, I would like to point out that we from the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries have supported both the Arctic Race of Norway in the north and the cycling World Cup in Bergen to EM in the weightlifting of the Förde and the Berlin Philharmonic Concert during the Winter Festival games at Røros. These are events that draw great attention to Norway abroad and that will contribute to positive profiling.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1087	The government has cut down on marketing within travel life by 40 million. NOK 2 in 2 years. There were new figures yesterday that showed that the maximum percentage increase in perm and denunciation is in overnight and serving places. Most travellers book their own travels on the hotel via the internet and expect Wi-Fi at the hotel today. Requests for 650 million were submitted for information. kr to broadband last year, while the government proposed 50 million. kr. In comparison, the government has given 50 million. kr in tax cuts per day since it came to power, so two weeks tax cuts would actually finance this broadband expansion. But what will the Minister of Industry say to all those who lose their jobs in the travel industry? Would she agree with Minister of Labour Hauglie, who said, 'You get a push when it's buttering'?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1092	There were a lot of questions here. When the representative Heggø refers to studies related to this, I expect – without having seen the study – that this is mainly about the South and the West. There, we know that the decline in oil activity has major consequences for the tourism industry as well. In the case of travel businesses in general, they are not engaged in increasing taxes and taxes. On the contrary, they are subject to taxes on wealth, reductions in taxes on wealth, they are subject to an inheritance tax that allows them to carry out the necessary generational shifts, they are concerned with infrastructure, they are concerned with simplifications, so they are concerned with a number of measures implemented by the government. The representative then asked questions about broadband, and then the representative probably knows that I am not constitutionally responsible for it. Here, of course, every budget determines what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1099	I referred to Nav's numbers when it was about the increase in unemployment that came yesterday. It was for the whole country. The airline fee and VAT increase are not directly below the Minister of Industry, but I assume that the government as a college is in charge of government's cutting policy in the industry. The government's actions are not targeted, and it's too small and too late. Missing broadband bets, missing means of marketing travel lives, as well as seat charges, happen directly to travel life. Two years in the travel life effort corresponds to less than one day's tax cut with the Right-front party government. It could be a priority change. Is the Minister able to guarantee that travel life escapes new unpleasant surprises, which again affect jobs in the tourism industry in the year’s budget, for example? a new VAT increase over the night?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1104	I understand that it's Nav numbers, but I'm pretty sure that if Hegø went into the numbers, they would show that it's business related to the South and Western countries, and it's a completely natural explanation that doesn't relate to government's policy towards travel. On the contrary, while the government cut in the 2013 and 2014 budgets, the number of overnight stays increased. Last year it increased by 4.4 pst., and the most important travel life reports now, is a weak krona rate, and that economic policy is predictable, because it makes important contributions to travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1113	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘Norway has good prospects for becoming an important supplier of eco-innovation solutions. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we proposed to grant 1 billion. SEK 116 million for the eco-innovation scheme. dollars more than the government's budget proposal. Unemployment in Norway is now the highest in over 20 years. South West is hit hard. The situation requires political action. With this backstop, why will the government not be involved in this eco-innovation scheme operation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1122	The Government shares the representative’s belief in the potential for environmental technology development in Norway and, therefore, the Eco-Technology Scheme is strengthened by 174.5 million. NOK 504.5 million. kr over the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries in 2016. Since its accession, the scheme has increased by more than 244 million. NOK 260 million. kr – i.e. almost a double. It's a bet. In addition, strengthening the Eco-Technology Scheme is only one of several measures in the government’s commitment to research and innovation. We have also strengthened mechanisms such as the User-led Innovation Arena and the FORNY2020 in the Norwegian Research Council and the establishment of the Facility for the Grant of Innovation Norway and the SkattenFUNN Facility. These other schemes also contribute to the development of more environmentally friendly solutions. In 2015, 34 pst went. of all Innovation Norway’s commitment to loans and grants for environmentally friendly projects. The State budget for 2016 authorises nearly 2.4 billion. kr more for industrial research and innovation than in 2013, including strengthening the FUNN Scheme. Our commitment to R & D and innovation will promote the transition to a greener and more knowledge-based business, increase activity in the economy and boost employment. As the representative points out, many jobs are now lost in industries and areas affected by the low oil price, among others. in the South and West. In order to facilitate the transition and help people get to work faster, the government presented a specific action package for increased employment of a total of 4 billion. kr in the 2016 state budget. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries budget, the annual package of measures totals 450 million. kr, which will promote more research, more innovation, more good entrepreneurs, new profitable businesses and new jobs. Our commitment to nationwide and wide-ranging schemes ensures that the best projects are supported. At the same time, we see that Innovation Norway and the Research Council schemes are doing well where the need for change is greatest. For example, allocations from the Swedish Research Council’s BIA scheme and Innovation Norway’s schemes – establishing grants and R & D contracts – are increasing in Rogaland and Hordaland. Much indicates that the effort is working. According to estimates from the Statistical Centre, the support from Innovation Norway has a positive impact on both employment, turnover and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1137	I thank you for your answer. Arvid Nesse, who runs a test centre for marine wind on Karmøy, refused to gather seawind operators in the West, on the grounds that it was a short time since a similar project was supported. Feedback from Innovation Norway in Rogaland is that it is important to provide room for a slightly wider interpretation of the Eco-Technology Scheme and that it also takes time before the opportunities provided by the scheme become known. We know that there are major applications on the way. We know that there are already good applications in there. What will the Council of State do to ensure a wider interpretation of the Eco-Technology Scheme or, where appropriate, to make the scheme better known?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1146	It's a challenge to make all the arrangements we have known to those who need it. In particular, I am concerned that small and medium-sized enterprises are getting better knowledge. This is why Innovation Norway and the Research Council are working with both simplifying the arrangements and making access more familiar, not least the way into the slightly multi-headed troll – if I can call it that – as public instruments can be. That's what's going on. It's a priority, and it's important that we're good at it. Fortunately, when it comes to assessing individual projects, we do not do that from political leadership in the ministry. This is what professionals and independent people will decide. I have not received any feedback that the mandate for the eco-innovation scheme should be changed, but if it comes to my table, I will of course consider it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1155	I thank you for the answer and the signal. It is tempting to remind you again that the alarm is in the West. It is tempting to quote Carl I. Hagen, who at the national meeting of the Progress Party called it a crisis that the government has done ‘too little, too late’. But back to the starting point. The government's going to cut the tax collection by 50 million. kr daily. In the West, after two days of government tax relief, we could build two river ferries. What does the Council of State responsible for economic development think is the most important thing — two days of tax relief or the construction of one river ferries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1164	I actually thought the phrase ‘too little, too late’ was used up by the Workers’ Party. It was ‘too little, too late’, it was ‘too much, too early’. I think you have to decide. I live on and visit the West regularly. I do not experience any companies saying that they need increased taxes and taxes, on the contrary. The property tax takes the values that these companies owned last year. They're decapitating. They don't take dividends. What they're asking for is that we look at the tax system, because it helps increase uncertainty. I am concerned that we have good systems that companies should be able to use, as environmental technologies, as innovation schemes in Norway. Enova has increased frames. We have spent a lot of money on research, knowledge and innovation – 2.4 billion. kr from we joined in 2013. There is a clear and clear commitment to assist the companies in the conversion, but we must also be concerned about a... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1177	This question, from Jette F. Christensen to the Minister of Economic Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister of Transport who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1180	‘Maritime nutrition is particularly affected by reduced offshore activity. If ships ordered for Norwegian ferry and short sea shipping use new technology, it may contribute to an increase in activity in the Norwegian maritime cluster. In other words, more environmentally friendly technology, higher earnings and more jobs at once. The working party wants the State to use its consumer power and, in a transitional phase, to cover the additional costs of using new technologies in the ferry offering. Why won't the government support this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1187	Let me start by answering that there are some questions from the Labour Party about unemployment, and I'm very happy about that commitment, because it shares the government. What is sad, on the other hand, is that the premise for all the questions is largely wrong – also here. The government supports the development of new environmental ferries, we are just doing this. It is a challenge in Stortingen's Question Time, and when the Workers' Party has not received this after 30 months of work from the government, it is either we who have failed in the communication work, or one has not actually read what the government has reported to Stortinget many times. It's just ferry routes that are best suited for testing new technology, because a walk in a limited area, one has limited fairway, one goes in the same ports time and time again, and it's basically the same people who work there – an excellent place to test out technology. That is why we followed closely what happened to the ferry «Ampere», which was placed in order during the previous government and was put into operation under our government. Just because we think this is exciting and will test it out more, we have announced on the Anda-Lote section that we will have two more ferries going on that kind of technology. One must be an elf. The second may be so, or it should be applied to another low-emission or zero-emission technology, but not to today's technology. This is where things happen. Then it is strange to get a question from the Workers' Party that premises that the government is against the policy it is pursuing, because that is what the Workers' Party is saying. In addition, much is happening on shipping beyond the ferry sector. In the field of the Minister of Industry, I can mention that there are many support schemes in the field of green technology, just to get shipping companies and shipyards to test this out. We have made sure that rural power plants are built several places, through support from Enova, which now has record-breaking budgets. We have ensured that the use of shore electricity is now subject to a low electricity charge instead of a high electricity charge. It means an advantage of 10-12 ears now, compared to when the representative Christensen's party was in government. We ensure that the Nox Fund continues and has a lot of resources to invest both in the conversion of existing ships and to facilitate the construction of new ships. We're far from done. We have said that in the Coastal Works, a non-use option on today's contracts where the boats have been built abroad, precisely because we want to publish it again, with a stronger focus on environmental technology, where we know that Norwegian shipyards also have an advantage. The coastal works will purchase several other boats. The coastal works has accelerated maintenance etc., just to create activity. I think it is very good that the Workers' Party discusses how we can get more environmentally friendly technology into the shuttle, and how we can use available capacity in the Norwegian yard. But the solution to such a good debate is not to give the impression that the counterparty does nothing, when we actually have many measures and more than 30 months to refer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1205	Then I understand the Council of State that the government does not oppose the Workers' Party's proposal that the State should use its consumer power and, in a transitional phase, cover the additional costs of using new technology in the holiday offer, just a fault or a typographical error – or something similar. It's always said away in the answers from the different government councils in this question session, that things are happening, that they're doing something. Nevertheless, as oil money is used, unemployment increases. My question to the Minister is, When can we see the effect of everything you do? Because it's impossible to see now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1212	First of all, I don't think it would be a good idea if my party friends in Stortinget chose to support a proposal from the Workers' Party that was actually less offensive than the government already had, because that would mean that one really said we should put the brakes on. When the Workers' Party has said that we should add 50 million. Environmental technology on the ferry fleet, I remember that only in the last four months has Enova allocated 270 million. kr to stimulate the construction of environmentally friendly ferries only in Hordaland. Should we go down to one-fifth of that level to support the Labour Party's proposal instead of continuing what we know the government is already doing? So the fact that one does not always support the opposition's proposal is not that one is against it, but that one just thinks it is too passive, too offensive. And when a government has already shown through various large-scale documents that the government is doing it, it's okay that we can disagree about the level and like about the device, too, but to give the impression – as one does here on the question – that the government does not support the work on new technologies on ferries, is simply to misinform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1219	I am reacting to it with ‘misinformation’, for now I have asked twice whether it is a typographical error or a misunderstanding that you are opposed to this proposal. I record that the minister does not respond specifically to what he says, is that things happen, that they do something. There are 140 000 unemployed in this country, and the number is rising: in Eigersund, unemployment has now increased by 130pst. in one year. Much of that hits the young hardest. Earlier in the Question Time today, the Minister of Finance could not admit that this was a crisis for anyone other than the individual. Can the Minister – after all from Rogaland – lift his eyes and see that this is not just a crisis for each individual, but a national crisis that we must face?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1226	First of all, I explained why the representatives of big business do not always vote for opposition proposals if they think they are too passive in relation to what the government is already doing, so yes, I answered that question. So we see that unemployment is increasing, and then the question is, would it increase more or less if the Labour Party's policy had been implemented instead of government policy? My claim is that it would be even higher than it is today, unfortunately, because the Workers' Party believes that we spend too much money from the state, and not too little. That means there would be fewer public dollars in circulation, because the Workers' Party would rather save them abroad. And I don't think it's foreign fund managers that work the most in the situation we're in right now. Then we've made changes, for example. improved the framework conditions for green data centres, improved the framework conditions for power-processing industries, renewable energy and for road and rail investment and maintenance, which have been doubled in recent years. If we had continued the Labour Party's maintenance policy, we would have had 4 billion. kr less in commission to the construction industry this year compared to what we actually have with today's government. My claim is: There is lower unemployment now than with the Workers' Party, but unfortunately it is increasing because there is a major shift in progress, and therefore it must... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1237	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1245	«South-West is hit by increasing unemployment. Many companies have been through several down-staffing rounds, and among other things. in the maritime sector, a number of enterprises are losing valuable competences they need in order to create new and better solutions. An increasing number of immediate demand for measures in the form of action packages. We also heard that last week when we had consultations with the business community in the state council's home town of Bergen. Does the Council of State consider that there is a great need for counter-cyclical measures that can keep employment up in this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1252	As the representative points out, there are challenging times in the South and the West. I both live there and visit regularly companies that are affected. It is clear that our ability to change in the labour market, in industry and in the public sector is being tested in the future. Lost jobs in private business must be replaced by jobs in private business. For this reason, the government presented a package of measures for increased employment, in particular targeting those parts of the country and those industries which are particularly facing a demanding situation. Maintenance work on construction and infrastructure are examples of this. We are now working on implementing a maritime strategy that was adopted last year, with 69 measures. It includes strengthening the seafarers’ subsidy scheme and measures to get more ships to fly home. So far, 16 ships have flagged home, and we expect more. We have also launched several measures to help secure jobs in Norwegian shipyards. It includes more funds for the maintenance, upgrade and construction of ships. We have set up a conditioning system and strengthened the innovation loan scheme to contribute to the green renewal of the short sea shipping fleet and to the reduction of annual fees for vessels in charge. These are demanding times, but I believe that the Norwegian shipyard industry will continue to claim itself. That's why it's happy when, for example. Kleben Verft signs an agreement of intent to build new ships for Hurtigruten. The monetary policy is the first line defence in the stabilisation of the Norwegian economy. The crown has weakened, and the social partners have taken responsibility and contribute to low wage growth. Overall, the competitiveness of Norwegian business has improved. The government has also announced that, in the context of the revised national budget for 2016, we will propose to the Stortinget amendments to the permit regime for 52 weeks. There is a system that can allow enterprises to maintain skilled labour through a period of temporary restrictions. So we're going to follow the situation closely. We are taking action both in the short and long term. We've done that up to now, and we're going to do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1271	There are many things that are being rammed up here, but the thousands of unemployed indicate that they feel that there is an actionless government council that comes with comforting words and has a waiting-and-see attitude, and that the package of measures delivered in the autumn has had little impact so far. It does little for those who stand in the Nav queue, to listen to fine words when there are no new jobs of it. The councils were aware that it was important to get the activity up. Then it's interesting to know what the state council is doing to push the activity, for example. on a Norwegian base - things to do about maintenance work and field development. But one also needs to be offensive in relation to the coastguard ships and the tenders in connection with them, and not least holiday offers. So it's interesting to ask the Council of States: will there be any measures that will work now, and has the conditioning system at all had any effect so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1280	Not unexpectedly, we look at the situation quite differently. I meet Norwegian businesses all the time, I have regular meetings with maritime industry – all participants in maritime industry. I had that a few weeks ago. I don't get the feedback that the bottom gives, that the measures don't work. I am not getting any requests for action packages either. It's a demanding development, especially related to the offshore industry, but these are conditions that are not governed by the government – none of the measures that the bottom here mentions, is something that we rule by the government. It's not the government, it's the companies that decide the activity on the Norwegian base. That's how it was under the Workers' Party, that's how it is under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1285	It is interesting, for the Council of State said that the government is now coming up with new changes to the legislation on permitting. The crisis struck a year and a half ago, and many have stood and cried out quite loud that it must now happen. It was only after a year of heavy pressure from the parties that the government found out that perhaps some argument could be found that this was also good. In addition, along this country it is felt that there is a large-scale centralisation, which provokes it. When tasks are actually to be sent out, they should not be sent very far, at least not northward! Among other things, the Police Directorate came up with new guidelines yesterday, which contributed to the election of Drammen in the light of accounting and payroll offices in front of, among others. Kristiansund. Also with regard to the deflagration of Ello in Kristiansund as Orkla did, also yesterday, the Council of State has come quite late and really not printed enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1292	It's quite fascinating. In the maritime industry, it's happened more over the two and a half years we've run, than it did under eight red-green. It's reporting a total industry. With regard to the relocation of state jobs, nothing under eight years of red-green government happened. We've moved over 100. And as for Drammen, there's one consultation proposal among several. So it's going to happen more in more areas, but what we have to deal with is an acute drop in the oil price, it's a demanding market situation, and it's a transition we have to make. If the rules of leave had been 52 weeks and a half ago, it would not have helped any of those who are unemployed today. We have said that this is what we do when we believe it is the basis for it, but we should not deprive people of the opportunity to be actively looking for work and to get a new job – we all believe that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1310	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1324	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1338	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. So we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1347	‘The record high unemployment rate is severe for employees in both the petroleum industry and offshore industry. Increasing unemployment is neither good for individuals nor for society. There is a need for national efforts to keep the activity up and the competence up and running, and it is high time that the government came up with countermeasures. We need measures related to the exploration, field development, maintenance and study of wells. What action will the Council of State take to increase activity on Norwegian pedestal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1354	In this questionnaire, a number of questions have been asked about measures to keep employment up in the demanding situation of parts of Norwegian industry. I refer you to the Minister of Industry's response to general measures to improve the situation of the South and West. I'm trying to deal with the government's policy towards the oil and gas industry. There is no doubt that the oil industry, like all other commodity-based industries, has been and will remain a cyclical industry, as well as an industry in which there is a high demand for capital and, in part, long lead times. Because of the oil market situation, this industry is now facing, both on the supplier side and on the operator's side, demanding market situations, which has led oil companies to reduce both the exploration budgets and the investment budgets. In total, this has resulted in a significant fall in the level of investment associated with the Norwegian base, but there is no doubt that a significant part of the challenge facing the Norwegian supplier industry is about the level of activity in regions completely different from Norway. This is a global situation, and we have a very internationally oriented Norwegian supplier industry. At the same time, important work is being done in industry to increase efficiency and reduce costs per barrel produced. To succeed in that work is what will determine whether we can have lasting value creation and thousands of profitable jobs in this industry in the future. However, in total, the effect of both cut and cost reductions is that the scope of activity is reduced, both in operators and – not least – in the supplier industry. There is no doubt that this is demanding both for those who lose the job and for the companies this is about. So I think we can remind ourselves that the situation had been a lot more demanding without the Johan Sverdrup expansion and the expansion of the Maria and Oseberg West flank that is now in progress. The majority of the population and the government have already presented more concrete measures. The Minister of Industry has been involved in some of them. We have adopted a tax relief for the oil industry of 600 million in real terms. kr for 2016. We have carried out a historic strengthening and commitment to petroleum research. We have strengthened the allocations for the internationalisation of industry through INTSOK, and we have 4,000 new action sites in place in 2016, targeted at this type of industry and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1365	Most I know, including myself, know people from home who have lost their jobs, or who are in danger of losing their jobs – in both family and friends. It feels quite dramatic for individuals, families and societies. Unfortunately, the answer given today by the Council of State does not reassure anyone. To respond to the situation, we need to put in place a greater national responsibility and greater and better action than what one has already done. Only in Eigersund has the unemployment rate increased by 130 pst. in one year – and it's dramatic. Then the question is, what will the Council of State do to get speeded up, among other things. the maintenance and modification work on the base, which will make an important contribution to the situation we are facing and which we are now seeing evolve in a negative direction? And when will the Council of State start and extract in existing fields, as it is actually in the Council of State's own government statement that one should do?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1372	One of the reasons why the level of activity on Norwegian pedestal is relatively lower than that in many other regions is that oil companies know that operating on Norwegian pedestal will be met by predictability in the framework conditions present here – partly thanks to petroleum policy agreements between the Workers' Party and today's two government parties, often with the support of the Centre Party. Part of this is because there has been a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the authorities on the one hand and industry on the other hand over the next 50 years. Our role is to govern this through predictable and clear frameworks, laws, regulations, concessions, etc., which give some rights and obligations to the companies. I can assure the representative Sund that we are clearly following up the duties of developing fields that have been given in accordance with these frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1377	It's a saying, "Better late than never." I'm afraid it's too much too late, and I'm also afraid that there are several measures that will never be taken because the government actually won't. It is also such that in addition to people losing their jobs, which is dramatic enough in itself, we are now in danger of losing valuable skills, and we see that youth flees from studies that are petroleum-related – that in an industry that will last for many decades, and where we see that the arrows are going to point up again in 2018. Then I wonder what the Council of State intends to do to prevent this from happening. At the same time, in Stavanger, a pilot project between Nav, NHO and NITO, on gaps in competence, will identify the need for the knowledge of unemployed petroleum engineers to get a new job. Because they want jobs, and they want to be converted. That proposal has been promoted to the Minister of Labour without having received it. Is there a proposal that the Minister for Oil and Energy might think of lifting up and getting something done about?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1386	I am pleased that the Workers' Party is clear that this is an industry and an industry we are going to live on for decades to come. I mean that too. At the same time, the government has made it easier for people with real-time and technical skills to take part in continuing training to get a job at school. This government has presented a significant commitment to growth in the aquaculture industry, which needs this kind of competence. We are in the process of awarding the first offshore concessions, which are definitely in need of this kind of competence. But the main responsibility for addressing the market fluctuations and challenges lies with the industry itself. It is clear that if we are to be able to maintain thousands of profitable jobs, the great value creation and further technology development in this industry, we are totally dependent on the success of the industry in addressing the cost challenges. We have put on the table a record effort on technology development along with the oil industry, and I have noted that being accepted very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1397	‘It has previously been set at 86 million. kr to new access to Haacon protection in order to improve traffic conditions, increase capacity and provide the necessary safety and security. However, the proposed plan does not take into account the planned increased submarine capacity and the safety distance to Brigg's command. Will the Council of State provide an increased framework to ensure that access respects the security of defence and provides a functional solution adapted to the plans of the Maritime Defence and the Nordic largest maritime base?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1404	I would like to thank you for this question and show that, over the last four to five years, significant funds have been invested in Haakonsvern, nearly 1 billion. kr. It's been absolutely necessary investment, because it's a base in development. As the question also refers to, we now have a project for new access to Haakonsverschung during planning. The project shall resolve traffic management issues and all those that have been nearby know that there is sometimes a major challenge, and there is also safety control of both vehicle and personnel. Defence Construction, together with the Maritime Defence Department, has explored different solutions, and in March of this year the Ministry asked Defence Building to prepare a pre-project for one of the four alternative solutions on the table. During the pre-project phase, the scope and costs of the project will be specified, which is common to that type of project. Thus, the project must first and foremost resolve road safety conditions. Priority must be given to any additional needs – where appropriate, as a separate action. The solution of the project needs to capture the need for flexibility and the possibility of extending it later, so as to facilitate any future increase in traffic. The alternative assessment first sent out for the project was a recommended solution that was twice as expensive as that provided for in the planning framework. In the further process, the need and solutions have been further assessed and the scope of the project has now been reduced in consultation with the Defence Staff. However, the new solution requires an increase in the amount of the plan compared to that contained in the investment plans, and it has been maintained in the ministry. There is therefore now consistency between the planned framework and the project that will be developed. It is also important to stress, as I was concerned, that this project for traffic access, road safety, control, etc. is one side of this. It is also necessary to be able to coordinate this project with projects to secure other units on the base. It is important that these traffic challenges are addressed so as to reduce the risk of accidents and incidents. For me, it is also important that the defence uses the funds wisely and in a good way, that the solution is good enough, and that it is at the same time sober. When the preliminary project is completed, the Ministry will decide on the matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1421	I am very much in agreement with the Minister's description, because it's not very often that you have such a large maritime base so close to a city. Now I live so that I know that the county road will be closed for half an hour every day, they will not be closed. There are buses, taxis and other vehicles – and it is one of the main roads to Laksevåg that goes right past the marine base. But at the same time – it takes a long time to plan also in Bergen – it turns out to increase submarine capacity. It has been seen that two solutions can be connected, but the framework given so far did not take into account the need to invest in increased submarine capacity. Does the Minister of Defence think that the new framework will keep pace with the increase in order to strengthen maritime defence in the case of submarine capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1426	As I said, Defence Building in its plans must take into account the relationship with other projects inside the base. Now it's the long-term defence plan, presented to the Stortinget, that will decide what future developments are going to be both at Haakonsverk and elsewhere. The important thing for us now, when we have asked Defence Buildings to make a pre-project on this within these frameworks, is that it will solve what is the main challenge and the problem here, namely the traffic access – security: personnel control and vehicle control – but at the same time be so flexible that it can take up other or extended parts of the project if it turns out to be necessary. As the representative is well-known, there are also different possible solutions for both ways of walking and how to ensure this in both a cost-effective and a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1431	Hordaland is not as hard hit, at least not the Bergens region, as the rest of the West, but at the same time there is increasing unemployment in the part of Hordaland that is around Bergen. Does the Council of State see that there may be opportunities for this measure to be launched quite quickly? Now, at least Bergen has lived with the access that makes it possible to have a situation of traffic congestion and difficulty. It's also not least about the safety of a marine base that whatever is going to be the conclusion is going to be put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1436	The Ministry will decide on this when the project is presented to us, and when it is quality assured in a satisfactory way. On the issue of unemployment in the region, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have set aside more than 300 million. kr for the maintenance of Sjöförderet’s vessels in 2016, and already more than 90 of the millions located at the yard in Bergen, Bergen Group, to maintain, inter alia. frigates. It is an important handshake to a region that is occasionally hard to bear and in many industries. That is why we have also chosen to use the opportunity that is, to take back a lot of the great delay in the maintenance of the marine defence vessels, among other things. by placing contracts in the yard in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1445	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Immigration and Integration, has been transferred to the Minister for Culture who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1448	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘In the evening post of 14 April, Pakistan’s ambassador says that Norwegian authorities should monitor the use of public support by mosques and other religious communities, that imams should speak Norwegian in sermons and lectures, etc. Many with background in Pakistan listen to and support the ambassador. Will the government follow up her important initiative by making assumptions that imams should take courses to use Norwegian in the mosque, that hate preachers should not be invited when support for mosques, other religious communities and religious organisations is granted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1457	I would like to thank you for the question from the representative of Bohemia. We need religious leaders who understand Norwegian conditions, and I think evolution is heading towards the fact that more and more religious communities, hopefully most, will use Norwegian language when it is preached, and when it is preached. However, the country's ability to impose language requirements in the implementation of religious services, Friday prayers or religious gatherings will be limited by the provisions of the Constitution and of the International Conventions, inter alia. freedom of religion. As Minister of Faith and Life, I am concerned that the state's foremost task in the field of faith and life is to safeguard and protect freedom of belief and life. Freedom of religion and freedom of religion are fundamental values and prerequisites for a free society. Freedom of religion implies that the religious and life-view societies themselves set qualifications for their religious leaders and preachers, including language skills. At the same time, it is important that religious leaders with a foreign background have the necessary qualifications to be religious leaders in the Norwegian community. That is why the Ministry of Culture also provides support and grants for the course «To be a religious leader in the Norwegian community», a course offered at the Faculty of Theology at the University of Oslo. The aim of the course is that religious leaders with a foreign background should be able to become safe in their role as religious leaders in Norway, become familiar with and discuss values and rules that exist in the Norwegian community, about religious communities. I would also like to stress that, of course, religious and life-seeking societies are not in any way exempt from complying with Norwegian law, and anyone who publicly encourages anyone to commit a criminal offence, violence or murder can be punished under Section 183 of the Criminal Code. Hateful statements can be punished under the terms of Section 185 of the Criminal Act, and these provisions also apply to calls and statements made in a belief or life-view society. Religious communities that violate ‘right and wrong’ may be denied grants by the State and religious communities may also be deprived of any right of marriage. If an expert is acting contrary to Norwegian law, the County State may also waive the right to be an expert.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1470	I thank you for your answer. The Pakistani ambassador’s comments responded to the participation of an imam from Norway in markings related to the killing of a liberal governor in Pakistan who was killed by an extremist. The concern expressed by the ambassador, I think we should take very seriously, and her role among Pakistani people in Norway is that this could give us a very good opportunity to put increased pressure on, take new initiatives, to speak Norwegian in sermons and lectures in mosques. It is true that there is a positive development in some places, but we also need to pay attention to those places where attitudes may go in a different direction. It could be the opposite, or at least it could not be a similar development. I would like to ask that the councils in mosques be asked to make demands in terms of job descriptions, really have something to do with the Constitution – there are many jobs that are required in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1479	I agree with the representative of Bohemia that it is important that religious leaders working in Norwegian society learn Norwegian. That is why I am also pleased that the Norwegian authorities are providing support and facilitating this course in order to make religious leaders safer in their role as religious leader in Norway. At the same time, I am concerned that the right to determine the language in which it is to be preached belongs to freedom of religion. That's my whole starting point. Then I would also like to say that the representative of Bohemia addresses an important concern, and in the work now on a comprehensive law related to the religious and life views of Norway, this will be an issue that will be absolutely discussed and carefully evaluated in the big message that I am going to present to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1486	That's an interesting question, I think. Of course, I agree with the defence of religious freedom, but it's not about banning anyone to talk. The question of state support to government, which in turn controls mosques, is whether it is not possible to say that we give priority to those who use Norwegian except of course in certain rituals, but who use Norwegian in sermons and lectures, etc. It's so important to us that the mosques also have a place in the Norwegian community, that we build a relationship between ourselves, and that otherwise in society we can keep up with everyone who participates in the mosques, follow up with the Council of State on hateful statements, statements that encourage violence, etc. If it happens, you'll have a completely different relationship with language if it happens in your own language. I think you should be more offensive when it comes to examining the possibilities and frameworks than just referring to general law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1491	Then I have to stress my answer again, because I don't know if it came out clearly enough. I agree with the representative that it is important that there is a good relationship between Norwegian society and mosques, but this is not just about mosques, it is about all religious and life views. If the State is to enter and impose requirements relating to the religious communities receiving public support, it shall not only apply to mosques, it shall apply to all. I would like to stress once again that this is something I will consider in the context of a comprehensive law on religious and life-seeing societies, in which we are assessing whether, if necessary, demands are to be made in many other areas, and what requirements are to be imposed in order to receive public support. But these are complicated issues that we need to assess in a whole, and that it's right to look at in the context of all religious and life-view societies and not just one religious community. That's why I want to get back to it with a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1513	This issue is postponed, as the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1520	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘How does the Council of State ensure that Nav employees make early contact with young people who have discontinued secondary education, in order to avoid inaction and to be able to initiate guidance and action early?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1527	First of all, thank you for the question. Basically, we don't want young people to get into Nav's ranks at all, but rather stay on the school bench or get to work. We know that secondary education is important in order to have a good and lasting link with the labour market. Nevertheless, a great deal falls short of completing their training. I believe it is important that as many young people as possible have the opportunity to complete secondary education. To ensure that it is not economically viable to leave school to participate in labour market measures, the age limit for getting action benefits has increased. Regardless of this, young people who need it, of course, get help from the Nav office to get into work or get into activity. In order to ensure that young people receive the assistance they need, young people are the top priority group in the work of the labour and welfare management. 1 000 of the additional action places for the unemployed in 2016 shall be linked to the implementation of actions in the Youth Package, which was launched in the 2016 budget. The apprenticeship grant has been increased to stimulate enterprises to attract more apprentices. A new follow-up and organisation agreement is also in place which ensures good follow-up from Nav to both the employer and the action participant. Several Nav offices have their own youth teams. There are also separate guarantee schemes for young people, and in the announced announcement to the Stortingen on the further development of Nav, among other things, I want to do so. discuss how follow-up work in the Nav Office can increasingly support the target of more people at work, including with a view to ensuring early efforts for young people in need of assistance. Tests with Nav supervisors in secondary schools have been established since autumn 2015. The aim is to prevent early school drop-outs by entering early school and providing an overall follow-up of students with complex problems. Several ministries are also working together to strengthen the work of vulnerable children and young people in order to ensure the success of more people in school and to complete secondary education, as a basis for lasting links with the labour market. I would also like to refer to the recently submitted message ‘From Exclusion to a New Chance’, where the government proposes a number of measures for better opportunities for higher education and better training in the Employment and Welfare Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1548	We share the desire for more people to complete secondary education, but we know that too many people fall out. We also know that the follow-up of young people who fall out of high school is too poor. The National Audit Board has confirmed that 60 pst. of those who drop out, there is no action whatsoever. For many, it means days with little meaning, where you can't mean anything to someone necessarily, and where you like to end up in a negative spiral. Paradoxically, the government plans to impose an activity obligation on social welfare recipients, while many young people are left unaided. SV has proposed an enhanced youth guarantee that will give the right to work, education or activity within three months for all under 25 years. Former Minister of Labour Eriksson stated that he would assess the guarantee scheme for young people. I wonder what Minister of Labour Hauglies' view of SV's proposals is, and what guarantee the Minister of Labour will give to unemployed young people today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1555	As I said in my first answer, among other things, the youth guarantees are mentioned in the notified notification to the Stortinget. Fafo has evaluated the guarantee schemes that are now, and it shows that they are not good enough. The National Audit Office also confirms exactly what the representative Bergstø had to say. It is primarily the school owner who is responsible for students staying at school and completing high school. It is the school owner, together with the schools, who is responsible for organising the teaching and adapting the teaching in such a way that the students are able to complete and pass. But it's clear that when it doesn't happen, when you don't get it, it's Nav's job to contribute with their toolbox to capture the young as early as possible, ensure them qualification and education, and make sure they get a job. The obligation to work now leads to some young people getting into work. Young people also feel positive that they are being asked for, and that some people show care for them and help them to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1562	We know a lot about what works. We know that close individual follow-up works, that motivational work, a holistic thinking and working with the individual works, and we know that meaningful activity works. But in order to do this, a close hub is needed that knows the individual you work with, and the community you operate in, that has professional freedom, and that has an instrument that can be used to meet the individual in their situation. In order for young people to be a resource and use their resources, we also need to use resources to invest in youth. Therefore, I wonder how the Council of State will just ensure that Nav gets the resources and the means to do the important job of ensuring young people a meaningful everyday life of work, activity and education, and whether guarantees can be one of the ways to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1567	Guarantees can definitely be a way to go. Unfortunately, the existing guarantees do not work as well as you wanted, and that is also the reason why I want to review the guarantees and see how a new one can possibly be made more effective. Earlier this week I visited Jessheim High School. They have Nav counsellors. What they include, among other things: there, the cooperation between the Nav supervisors and the school has contributed to increased knowledge of Nav at school, but not least – and perhaps so important – increased knowledge of the Nav school. They themselves say that they could thus in a much, much better way get closer to the young people and offer them the help that the young people needed. The most important thing now is to get into the lives of young people so early that you avoid unnecessary long stays between school and further school or work. There is also a background for the government to present a youth package in the State budget with a number of concrete measures to address this need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1580	‘The Government removed in 2015 the holiday allowance for day-care recipients. A daily allowance beneficiary who receives an annual benefit of NOK 300000 will subsequently receive a loss of NOK 28 500 per year. Why does the government think it is fair that those who lose the job should also be further hit by cuts in the daily allowance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1587	The government is committed to targeting schemes to get more people to work. That is why we also presented an expansive state budget and a powerful package of measures that provides activity and work throughout the country. The scheme to which the representative refers is an example of a scheme that does not contribute to the creation of more people. The beneficiaries of the daily allowance shall be genuine job seekers, i.e.: active job seekers and available for work. A person receiving a daily allowance who takes a vacation from the job application is not a real jobseeker and should not receive a daily allowance. The idea behind the holiday supplement was that the daily allowance recipients would still be able to take a vacation without being hit financially. But the holiday supplement was paid in the year after the service year. Most of the recipients are then, hopefully, back to work, and the scheme is therefore not being targeted. The holiday supplement in the daily allowance scheme was terminated with effect from 1 January 2015. At the same time, as a more targeted scheme, the government has made it possible for those who become long - term unemployed over 52 weeks to take up to four weeks’ daily leave. They then retain their current income for up to four weeks. The four weeks may be taken together or as single days. After previous arrangements they had to cancel the daily allowance while they took a vacation, and received the holiday supplement only the following year. As a result, those who have received a daily allowance for more than 52 weeks can now take a vacation without losing money on it. The latter is a better system for those who have been unemployed for a long time and may need leave. That was not the case with the now terminated scheme, where the right to holiday allowances occurred already after eight weeks of leave. Overall, we now have a more balanced agenda than before, a holiday allowance for those who have a long daily allowance behind them, and a scheme that stimulates transition to work for those with shorter leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1598	If you peel away all the technicalities and explanations, the reality is that you are unemployed, you get less money in return for it now than you received before – NOK 28 500 less if you have a daily allowance of NOK 300000 per year. That's why I repeat the question: Is it reasonable that those who lose the job should be further hit by cuts in daily allowances? Why does the Council of State think that people are more inspired to work – when the situation is that there are few jobs – by the fact that those who go unemployed are going to have an even worse economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1603	So the unemployed now get holiday pay while they are unemployed, as opposed to before, when they were paid the holiday money the following year when they were likely to return to work. We felt that it was not a targeted and good enough arrangement. It is also the case that from time to time one should be quite critical to the legislation in place – one should review the legislation from time to time and look at what should be done by changes. As the representative is aware, we have already proposed a number of changes to the day-to-day pay legislation to facilitate the transition to work by facilitating the combination of education and day-to-day pay and by making it easier to receive day-to-day pay while establishing one's own activities. I have previously stated that we also consider several other rules or changes in the day-to-day pay code that will stimulate faster return to work. That's what the unemployed need now, they need to get back to work quickly, and that's what we're doing through our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1608	We have made a lot of suggestions to get people back to work, but right now that was not the question. Whatever explanation here, the total number of unemployed in Norway is going to be 1 billion. NOK less in benefit – i.e. a person who has NOK 300000 in the unemployment allowance will get NOK 28 500 less. The council can talk about vacations and when the money is paid and that kind of thing – the reality is that she stands and defends that she takes over 1 billion. NOK out of the pocket of the unemployed, NOK 28 500 for one who has NOK 300000 in the unemployment allowance. What I'm trying to get answers to is: Does the Council of State think it's fair – while giving large tax credits to those who have a lot of money from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1613	I am a little surprised that the representative seems to think that it is more targeted to give holiday money to those who are no longer unemployed, and that you clearly want to go back to a system where you did not get holiday money while you were unemployed. I believe that it is more focused that those who are unemployed for a long time and who need a vacation do not lose money on it during the weeks that you take a vacation, as the scheme was before. We are concerned that we should stimulate transition to work. At the same time, we are also going to take care of those who go a long time without a job, and that is what we are doing with the change we proposed last year in the day-to-day money code.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1622	‘In Sunnhordland, the unemployment rate has risen by 82 pst. from March 2015 to March 2016. In the municipality of Stord there are 7 pst. the gross unemployment rate. Most unemployed people are in industrial work and construction, but unemployment is also growing strongly to other industries. In a time of difficult market conditions for petroleum-based industries, prevention of unemployment is important. Business-internal training, BIO, enhances the adaptability of enterprises. Why do companies in the West now refuse their applications for funds for BIO?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1629	There is no doubt that there are now demanding times in parts of the country. It is serious for the person who loses the job, and it is serious for the companies and communities hit hard. The government is following developments in unemployment closely and is considering the ongoing need for the scope and arrangements of labour market measures. We are concerned with instruments that support the needs for conversion in different industries, such as the EU. oil-related establishments having particularly tough times. The figures so far in 2016 show that the use of intra-corporate training has increased and doubled since the autumn of 2015. In March this year, an average of about 500 employees participated in the measure at all times. We find most participants in the West. Within the overall budgetary framework of labour market measures, the Working and Welfare Act decides regionally and locally which measures are most appropriate to meet the concrete challenges of the labour market. The scope of intra-corporate training needs to be assessed against other instruments and priority areas and target groups. In-house training is a good tool to enhance the skills of employees in firms that have difficulties in converting and that have to make changes to the company's production or establish themselves on new markets. The conversion requirement is a condition for receiving funds for intra-corporate training. Only market failures fall outside the scope of the regulatory framework. The entry conditions of the measure therefore exclude the use of the measure in isolation as an alternative to permitations. Companies that do not fulfil these conditions may be refused their applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1640	Apply Leirvik applied for NOK 1355 000 in BIO funds for spring 2016, and this offshore supplier company was granted NOK 172 000. In the grounds for the refusal, the County Director of Nav Hordaland wrote to the company: Our challenge is that, unfortunately, we have very limited resources for the BIO system. The need seems to be considerably greater than what we have at our disposal, as well as the limitations of the BIO rules on what support Nav can provide. The market for offshore suppliers is currently black seas, and companies are working intensively to find products and markets that can replace the oil and gas markets. Will the State Council strengthen the BIO scheme, in order to support enterprises such as Apply Leirvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1650	I think I should be careful about handling cases for individual companies here. However, intra-corporate training is an action which, like the other labour market measures, is a framework-based instrument that requires priority within the overall financial framework for labour market action. Current conditions of entry are targeted and ensure that the action within the overall allocation of labour market measures is most effective and promotes the necessary conversion. The information I have received from the Employment and Welfare Directorate is that this year the department has not rejected applications because of a lack of financial framework. However, a refusal has been granted where the conditions for obtaining a grant have not been met. I also see that in several of the counties money is used that never before for company internal training. More and Romsdal is one of the states that are taking full advantage of this. I see that applications are also increasing in Rogaland. In many places you haven't known so well about the system, I think, and if we're going to raise the pot, we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1657	I have to remind you once again that the Nav boss in Hordaland writes that the need seems to be considerably greater than what we have at our disposal. I would say that the Labour Party proposed in the 2016 budget to change the BIO legislation to include market failures and cyclical conditions. We also proposed increasing the number of jobs in the labour market, to which the BIO resources fall, by 339 million. kr. And in the fall, the government decided to strengthen the system of in-house training, especially in view of the challenges facing industry in the West. BIO is an effective migration measure, which also serves as a prevention against cancellations. Will the Governments be able to change the BIO legislation to include market failures and cyclical conditions, as the situation is now in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1666	I fully agree with the representative that intra-corporate training is an action that is very good and that provides companies with a necessary handshake in a difficult time, and that is also the background for us to increase that pot in the 2016 budget. It is important that we in this room are aware that the situation we are facing now is different from the situation we were facing in 2009, where there was a sudden upsurge in everything, in all industries, and we had to go back to where we – almost – escaped before the crisis. We're not there now; we're at a time when more industries need to change, and we're not going back to where we were. We have to find a completely new normal, and then general market failure will not be the solution. Many of the companies that are now experiencing market failures will also experience this in the years to come. Many of them need to convert to new industries and new markets, and that's what we're going to help them – not to sedentate them in industries that aren't going back to where they were.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1678	This question, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who is directing the issue. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1681	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘The unemployment rate in Agder is increasing. Several occupational groups are affected. The government spends 20 million. crowns to centralise and red tape the regional development funds scheme and cut them by 300 million. krona while pottery projects in Agder are in line. Prisons in Mandal and Fromand, upgrading schools in Vennesla and Flekkefjord, local roads, for example. be able to provide local jobs quickly. State council says more bureaucracy and cut $300 million. krona are active measures to create jobs quickly in Agder?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1690	The government is well in the process of renewing regional policy, including: priority is given to improving the overall framework conditions for business. Furthermore, regional policy efforts are targeted by giving priority to enterprise and enterprise-oriented actions. Entrepreneurship and innovation are also emphasised. However, although regional development funds for investment on the road and other growth promotion measures have been redeployed, there is a total budget of €1.85 billion in 2016. kr for regional development. The reduction in regional development funds over the last three years is more than offset by increased means of upgrading and renewal of the county road network. These are targeted measures to strengthen the competitiveness of industry throughout the country. Regional development funds are mainly funds that go through county municipalities or the instrumentation, with the aim of creating growth and value creation throughout the country. If the representative wants to link the rehabilitation of state buildings to these funds, there will be a whole new practice. The difficult situation in the South and West as a result of the crisis in the petroleum industry and in the supplier industry has led to the need for coordinated regional efforts across county boundaries. That's the background for the government's allocation of 20 million. to the County of Hordaland to strengthen cooperation between the counties of the South and the West on conversion measures. Enhanced cooperation shall improve cross-border action. The aim of these funds was coordination, not red tape. As part of the 2016 budget, the government has presented an additional action package for increased employment of a total of 4 billion. kr. The package is targeted at areas that are particularly sensitive to the consequences of lower growth. Package is being rolled out now. Among other things, the authorised representative noted that the Justisbygget in Kristiansand was on the list of buildings where rehabilitation or maintenance will be carried out. The overall economic policy now has a strong impact on unemployment. Overall, government policy contributes to better business framework conditions and facilitates the creation of more new jobs both in the Agder counties and in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1707	The measures are very effective,' said the Minister. Yeah, it's so powerful that there'll be 50 more people available every day. We have 140,000 more now, so that's a powerful effect of measures that actually don't work. So twelve new bureaucrats need to coordinate, while employees who are in existing positions cannot actually coordinate the means they get, and then you have to have even more bureaucracy. The government says it will bring new reforms. What they deliver are new records: in the number of bureaucrats, tolls and huge tax cuts to the richest. As Tornesus, the government is passively drowsy as the hedge grows very high. The passivity causes unemployment to spread to other industries. 75 pst. by the companies in the South are afraid that it will get worse in 2016. I visited a large business enterprise the other day, and they said that there was no active counter-cyclical policy at all in South Africa. Can the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs tell Stortinget how many jobs have been created and is the Minister satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1716	There is still growth in employment in this country, although it seems that the representative believes otherwise – that is actually it. Jobs are created all over the country, including in the areas that are now struggling, and we should be pleased about that. Yes, we are reforming – it should just be missing. If that's what we should have done a long time ago, it's just reforming. Anyone who reads a little bit in the productivity commission's settings will just see that this is something you should have done a long time ago, that's what the government is doing. As I said in my previous answer, there are still large sums going to regional development, but what is important for the whole country, not least the region in which the representative is involved, is to have good framework conditions for businesses and a good infrastructure that ensures the accessibility of the people most and for the business world. This is what we have contributed to and provided through a historical on- and off-road investment – on transport – through powerful action packages that are now giving businesses a mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1723	It's almost like sitting in a nice layer and singing a verse and rebreeding, and then we say that now we're going to sing the next verse, but then someone says, "No, now we have to sing the rebreed again." So now the government has sung this review for a year and a half, it doesn't work, and it doesn't get better for that reason. KS Agder has sent letters to the Minister for Municipal and Modernization on potable projects throughout Agder – 1.2 billion. Total kr. NITO has written letters to the Agder bench and asked that this be realized. Other professional groups in the South and Western countries see that there will be leavencies and redundancies around the next turn. Necessary conversion skills move from the continent. Kristiansand municipality estimated that 24 million. kr in reduced income is an effect of unemployment on Agder — it was a while ago. Half of Norway and so it's hit, and that's not enough for it to be called a crisis. What action will the Minister now take to respond to the needs identified by the region?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1730	I said in my previous answer and must again make aware that jobs are being created in this country. Employment growth is increasing — it is not high, but employment growth remains. Money is granted, contracts are concluded, and jobs are created. The government has in the state budget for 2016, among others. provision of money for the rehabilitation and maintenance of state-owned buildings. It also creates jobs, not least in the areas that are now struggling. It may be worth reminding KS that there are also opportunities in the municipal sector to prioritise projects that create jobs locally. Most municipalities also need to clean up and maintain their own buildings, and they now have the opportunity to carry out maintenance work locally to also contribute to jobs. All of us now have to contribute to our efforts by providing local employment growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1739	‘Many workers, especially in the West, have been laid off because of government’s opposition to improving the rules of leave. The question of funding is still unclear, and it may seem that the government is trying to push parts of the costs with longer leave on the already hard-pressed companies. The Labour Party has proposed to reduce employers’ ownership from 10 to 5 days. How bad must the situation in the labour market be before the Council of State is able to consider this proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1746	It is almost striking that, in almost every debate, the main response of the Workers' Party is the rules of leave. Permitting can be a proper grip if we talk about short-term market failure. On the other hand, if there is a lasting change, there may be a poor solution for the employee. When designing the permitting mechanism, a balance must be struck between different considerations: on the one hand, the scheme should contribute to the effective exploitation of the labour force in society by means of a rapid transition to other work. On the other hand, the scheme shall bear the remuneration obligations of enterprises in the event of an unforeseen lack of employment by covering social security costs by the government. A proportion that motivates businesses to conduct that is in line with what is sensible on the part of society is therefore important. The excess share of the permit scheme is the employer’s period. Permitting legislation needs to be adapted to the current economic situation. The special thing about the situation we are now facing is the obvious needs for business conversion. Lower growth from activities related to oil is a lasting structural change, beyond a reasonable length of the periods of leave. Thus, the response to the challenge cannot be short-term measures or measures that have the effect of inhibiting the necessary transformations. In the new legislation that the government will present in the revised budget, we propose to increase the maximum duration of the leave to 52 weeks and to introduce a new employer’s payment of five days after 30 weeks of daily pay. The changes will provide firms with a longer conversion time at the end of their operation, while providing firms with an incentive to assess realism in terms of the possibility of a new activity within the overall period of leave. There are good reasons to make the legislation vary with the economic situation. The government made changes to the law on permitting last summer and has thus announced new changes to the revised budget in the light of the parties’ demands for wage-fixing now in spring. It is not the level of unemployment itself that should be crucial for the regulatory framework for permitting, but the expectation of the sustainability of the demand decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1761	Once again, the Council of State repeats this criticism of the Workers' Party's commitment to the permitting rules and a claim that we do not understand the long-term migration challenges. I think it's a bad rhetoric when it comes from a government that doesn't understand that one has to see the challenges in the short and long term in the context. It's a good thing that some of us are concerned with the permitting rules, because it has been quite necessary to push the government not to turn it down, but twice to get a law of permitation that is somewhat adapted to the situation. The main counter-argument to the government against permitting is that it should give a so-called containment effect, hence it should be better to be cancelled than to be permitted. But when we know that nine out of ten lay-outs come back to work, 80 pst. to the same workplace, it would be interesting to right if the Council of State were able to document this so-called containment effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1766	Yes, historical figures are that eight out of ten come back again in the job they had. The question is, what will happen now, when we see that unemployment is increasing in the sector that itself says that many of the unemployed can't wait to come back, because you have to keep falling due to. the level of costs in the industry. This means that those who lose their jobs need to find new opportunities in new businesses, and perhaps in new industries as well. That's what the government has been concerned about, ensuring a balance between the interests of yes, the needs of businesses to maintain skills, but also the needs of other companies for the same skills and the need for change that we see around us in society now. We believe that we have found a fair balance in the proposals we are now proposing for the Storting. The most important thing is that we ensure safe jobs and new jobs for those who lose their jobs, and that is what we are doing through an offensive state budget and a package of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1773	When eleven workers' party representatives from the West in this question hour challenge the government in employment, it is with a quite alarming unemployment rate as a backstop. An example is 4,400 notices of leave or cancellation only in March. When the mantra is still tax cut, combined with the complaint and criticism of the Workers' Party to avoid focusing on their own missing policies, I found it evidence of a government that has lost control of the increasing unemployment. In several responses today, the state council has developed the so-called government action package, without the fact that the package is completely revealed by Stavanger AFTENblad as a bluff, so in the name of propriety, one should perhaps leave it to be drawn up several times as a salivating measure. Will the Council of State now take seriously and start using fiscal policy to overcome unemployment in the revised budget, or is it still hoping that right-wing ideological desires for the market to be settled will be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1780	It is fascinating to record how the representative is concerned about a few days' payroll obligation for businesses, while he wants to send a tax bill to the same companies of over 10 billion. kr. The last businesses now need, is that policy, to say it carefully. Yes, there are still notices of permits. We know from experience that many of the notifications are fortunately not made, but we still see that the situation is demanding, and it is going to be demanding beyond 2016, before the forecasts indicate that we are going to see increased opportunities in 2017. I think it is also possible – if I may be allowed to say so from this pulpit – that the representative, Mr Bjørdal, may well be the only one who now believes that the budget is not expansive. Most people would think that the budget is expansive and that there is also some reason why we are able to deal with the difficult situation that we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1793	‘Increased target prices have been a central element of the last two agricultural settlements. How will the outcome of negotiations on international agreements affect the possibility of increasing the target prices in future agricultural settlements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1800	Norwegian agriculture is in competition with the outside world in many ways. Imports of agricultural products have increased. This has been the case for many years. Price differences in agricultural commodities between Norway and the rest of the world have also increased in recent years, for example. on dairy products where prices in the EU are now at a low level. Changes in prices of agricultural products are not required to develop in a way that weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian agriculture and food industries. Then we will lose market shares. The basis for extensive Norwegian agriculture and land use throughout the country will be reduced if this occurs. It applies to both the goods on which we have the target price and other goods, which now make up about 40 pst. of agricultural market incomes. I would like to point out, as the representative Pollestad also describes, that increasing target prices was a very central part of the framework of the last two agricultural decisions, but nevertheless the increase in real terms was less than half of the average under the previous government. It's because this government takes the price challenge seriously. Norway's WTO commitments mean that we can't have more than 11.4 billion. kr in trade-distorting social benefits, so-called yellow box. For Norway, the target prices are a large part of this benefit. For 2014, Norway has reported support from a yellow box of 9.8 billion. kr to the WTO, that is to say that the action space up is about $1.7 billion. kr under the binding if you do not want to exceed this lead. We have estimated that yellow social benefits will increase monthly in 2015, among others. due to high grain production. The bond is not expected to change in the next few years. Norway participates in several negotiations aimed at increasing trade. It shall apply, inter alia: free trade agreements with several countries and Article l9 negotiations on increasing trade in agricultural products with the EU. The EEA Agreement requires Norway to review trade in agricultural products every two years with a view to gradual liberalisation. However, the Government has as its objective the best interests of Norway. Therefore, developing the industry is a central part of the government's agricultural policy so that it tolerates increasing competition over time. This will provide the basis for us to continue to have a large Norwegian food production and to use agricultural land throughout the country. I believe in controlling evolution, rather than being guided by it. As a result, this government has given priority to increasing the competitiveness of agriculture. This is the most important contribution we can make in the world we live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1811	In the two years when the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have supported agricultural policy, there has been a very small increase in the budget for Norwegian food production, 45 million. NOK, but one has spent about 800 million. kr at increased target prices. Then it is that things are connected in different variants, and the space of action that has been used here is partly a space of action created by the so-called 'Ostetoll Decision', on which the Progress Party was opposed, but on which one is now basing its policy. So my question is, how does one evaluate what's now happening to Article 19? Is it the case that in future settlements the government will focus more on using budgetary resources to increase Norwegian food production and to achieve the objectives set by the Stortinget for Norwegian food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1816	It is quite right that this government has tried to help increase the competitiveness of agriculture rather than budget support over the State budget, and it provides a more market-friendly industry. That's what I'm after. At the same time, agriculture is now making a claim for 2017. The negotiations shall enter into, the State shall make its offer on 4 May. I want to wait for further positions to actually sit in the negotiating room when it comes to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1821	I probably didn't have the big expectations of getting a statement about the government's offer. I recall the clear expectations that Stortinget has for Norwegian food production. Then it is that agricultural policy and Norwegian food production depend on other conditions that are not directly under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture. One example is the policy of predators, where we have received a report of wolves in which agricultural interests are absent. My fear is that the Minister of Agriculture's footprint is also not present in the process going on around the Article 19 negotiations. Will the Council of State be on the ball to ensure that an individual receives Article 19 negotiations that will end with the government being able to use its most important instrument in the future, namely the target price?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1830	The government will retain Norway's interests, and I'm part of the government that does it. The negotiations are in progress and the result will be presented to Stortinget if we achieve a new negotiating result. I am very pleased that the representative underlines the importance of agricultural policy for the Storting. Therefore, we can also spend some time enjoying the fact that the income growth in the last two years has been 15 pst. in the agricultural sector, which is considerably more than in all other sectors, and that the level of self-sufficiency goes up under this government. So the policy works either the Center Party likes it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1837	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-27.ana.ud1895e1850	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
