ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e26	The representative, Frank J. Jensen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Requests for leave of the representative Åse Michaelsen to participate in the OSCE conference in Berlin are submitted by the Progress Party’s High Level Group on 2 and 3 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell Ivar Larsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e49	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e52	On behalf of the Green Party and myself, I would like to make a proposal to explore the possibility of introducing a climate reward in Norway. [[carbon charge for distribution]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e57	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e69	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, which are from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e76	In her last national meeting, Erna Solberg said that there are now 42 000 fewer in the so-called health queue than when the government joined. It's become a fixed feature of the government's show list. But the fact that the number of people waiting has fallen from about 260,000 to about 220,000, does that say anything about what really counts – do they get treatment? Last week's revelations in The Medicine Day ask serious questions about the government's results. We have discovered a marked change in how hospitals register patients who are waiting. According to Dagens Medisin, hospitals place patients more in line for a first consultation than in line for a specific treatment. In contrast to the intention of the law, hospitals can quickly get the patient out of the visible health queue, which we can control, and into an internal health queue, which we do not have access to. Only in Oslo University Hospital, OUS, in one clinic, there shall be more than 15,000 patients in so-called internal waiting lists. The patients are being fooled, the harsh judgment of the patient ombudsman of Oslo and Akershus, Anne-Lise Kristensen. Waiting time is complicated – I have experienced it myself. It has to be handled with caution. What we have heard are quite sloppy politicians who claim, without particular professional justification, that the waiting picture has changed completely in a few years. This case is serious, because when you're sick, there are few things that mean more than trust, trust that healthcare has your best at the top of the agenda, not guided by political goals about which list you're on. The quality manager of the Lovisenberg Hospital says that the dramatic changes in waiting times over the last three to four years are ‘best for politicians, not as good for patients’. The Prime Minister claims that 42 000 fewer patients are in line now than in 2013. Is she sure that these patients are actually on treatment, or are many of them just moved to a queue that is not visible in the official statistics?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e87	Health cows in Norway are falling. We have several indications that they're going down. We're also very concerned that if you can question the statistics, you have to go through it thoroughly. But a lot of work has been done to reduce waiting times around Norwegian hospitals. It is measured to a greater extent, and we also look at indicators other than the usual waiting lists, among others. the indicator from when referrals were received in hospitals until the patients were completed – figures from the Health Directorate for over 300,000 patients. We see a drop in the median waiting time of seven days from 2013 to 2015. So there's other numbers than the usual waiting list numbers, which say there's a change, that people are treated faster now than before. However, we take seriously the statements that have been made in the Medisin today, because we believe it is not right to simply refer for a consultation, possibly a screening, and then wait again for treatment. One of the most important steps we're taking to not have it like this is what we've done with packaging for cancer. Then you should first be referred to to be examined for cancer. Then there's a detailed package sequence that tells how fast you're going through, and about the steps on the way. And you get organized so that the treatment happens. Packing processes are one of the things this government has implemented — based on new ideas on how to use the health care system better. We are now working to introduce this for several disease images, not just in the cancer field, because it has given so successful experiences. We are concerned that this should be reviewed, so the Health Directorate will be instructed by the Ministry of Health to review the information and to check whether some hospitals actually violate the legislation by putting people on a new list instead of going directly to treatment once the needs for treatment have been identified.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e100	I have to interpret it as meaning that the Prime Minister will perhaps then be careful just to establish that 42 000 fewer people are in line, understanding that they are being treated. We have now been told that very many of them are on internal lists – they have come to the hospital after referral, have been referred to for treatment, have been labeled as treated, and then they are on internal lists. I think it illustrates that as politicians we draw very powerful conclusions from figures that even the professionals are cautious about and warn against. That's what we're going to take with us. Few politicians, if any, have contributed more than Erna Solberg, Bent Höie and Siv Jensen to establish – so no one can misunderstand – that 42,000 more have been treated. I believe that the Prime Minister should now correct. I want to ask, does it impress her when the professionals say that here are the numbers that are more available to please the politicians than to be the best for the patients? Does it impress the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e107	I know that what we do in the health sector is for the benefit of patients. I look through headlines in the papers that people have experienced record rapid treatment for cancer. We see the feasibility it is at the package for cancer. We've said we're going to go through these numbers to see if there are any health companies or departments operating in another way. However, some people are sent to an investigation that does not receive treatment afterwards because they are not to be treated. One of the things that happens with package sequences, for example, is that people are sent to the investigation. And then you find that they don't have cancer, that's maybe something else, that's going to be treated in a completely different way, or that might go by itself. You'll get more people coming to the investigation faster. It's part of that cancer package, for example. Some more people who are found not to have cancer and do not need treatment are being investigated. We're going to go through these numbers, but I now notice that the Labour Party is trying to talk down a result of the policy we're running, and as several indicators actually show very clearly. I think everyone in the health sector is looking and working around the clock to create these results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e116	There will be follow-up questions – first Tove Karoline Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e119	The Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have for a long time claimed that the government has cut health cows by over 40 000. Today's Medisin has revealed that the number is wrong, that at least the same number of patients have been excluded from the statistics and into a waiting list that cannot be found in public figures, and that the proportion of treatments for those who have been investigated has fallen dramatically, from 37 pst. to 15 pst. No matter what number: Norwegian patient registers stress that the number of waiting – or the health queue, which the Prime Minister likes to talk about – are figures that neither say anything about treatment capacity nor quality of health services. The Minister of Health and the Prime Minister have drawn up individual tables with tweezers and held them up in order to draw a picture of their own policies, and the Minister of Health has not changed rhetoric after the revelations that have now come. My question is: will the Prime Minister, as the Minister of Health, still insist on the story of the health queue that we have now heard, or will what has been revealed change that story?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e128	Health cows in Health Norway go down, that shows all the other indicators as well. If they have gone down so much, the question is after the headlines of the Medicin Day. So we're going to do a check on whether this is how hospitals actually break the law and the law they're governed by, by keeping other types of lists and not getting people treated. We are committed to seeing that we actually meet many other quality criteria: getting a shorter time to clarify whether you are sick or not, what disease you have, working on package sequences, working on quality registers and systems in the future – which help to raise quality – is an equally important part of this. But with all the management systems, there will sometimes be some results where you try to adapt to the management system. There is no new debate, as has been the case under previous governments as well. We are concerned about resolving this, for Norwegian patients who need treatment should be treated more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e135	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e138	New figures from the Norwegian patient register show that during this period the problem is repeated with invisible waiting lists. This is nothing new in the Norwegian health service. The Christian People's Party shares the government's ambition that more patients should receive faster help, investigation and treatment. The duration of the waiting period must be medically justified – and nothing else. That's why the evolution we're now seeing is worrying. As the Minister for Health writes: «Probably shifting the waiting time until after the first consultation, in order to meet the deadline but at the same time giving the patient the actual waiting time after, is contrary to the law and not acceptable.» The responsibility for this is not limited to hospital management and the employees. We have to look at the systems and whether the requirements affect the priorities of hospitals. Does the Prime Minister see that it could be appropriate to set medically justified deadlines for the treatment of different patient groups, precisely to ensure that a non-visible waiting list is obtained?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e149	It is possible to set different medical deadlines. What's difficult is that it's individual as well. In all such contexts it will be individual how a disease develops in the individual, so what can be an average period that is convenient to wait for treatment to get help does not have to be it for the individual. That's what we have to take into account. So it was differentiated patient rights earlier, where you had those who needed help much faster, and after the severity. It was removed under the previous government, perhaps just based on the fact that there is a need to look at this even more individually than you would do if you set up the individual patient groups. However, it is not unnatural that for some people it will be a bit of a wait before you get to treatment, after you have been determined for what treatment you should have. That's part of the priority system we have. What's not right is if you use this to make sure you don't give treatment. There should be medical reasons for waiting for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e156	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e159	The Minister of Health and Welfare has presented good reprisals, but now it turns out that health professionals have solved this situation easily. They take the patients into the outpatient clinic, and then the deadline is met. But the problem is that patients have not been treated. In 2011, 300,000 patients were evaluated for treatment. In 2015, the figure was reduced to 163,000, while more than one million were put in line for distribution. These patients are not healthy, but they are registered as undeclared and given an hour for distribution. In this way patients are removed from official waiting lists, while hospitals avoid delay. The Prime Minister pointed out that the government has asked the Health Directorate to evaluate this. My question is: why is the government no longer active - does health care professionals take up the carpet and ask them to do good for this change in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e164	We're not asking the Health Directorate to assess it. We're going to give a mission to the Health Directorate to review how the practice is in the individual hospitals and provide a report. It is the assignment to be given. So it's true that there's a challenge especially with people who have complex symptoms and other things. That's one of the reasons why we at Stortinget in the last period were intrigued by diagnostic centers, which means that you don't give up on a patient who comes with an unexplained disease, but that you actually figure out what that disease is. I have visited some of the first diagnostic centres. They're doing a fantastic job. It is a relief for those patients who have been there and who may experience being told that they do not have cancer but another type of disease. Then the course of treatment can go, instead of being sent through the firmer to new references for each individual investigation. That is why we are also working on establishing diagnostic centres in other areas, including: what we call muscle fatigue — the type of immunosuppression — that is represented by one of the weakest health care groups, but most often experience no response. That's why it's important how we organize inside the hospitals, also to make sure that we get a proper response to what's not completely solved diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e173	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e176	From 2002, when the state took over the hospitals, until today the hospital budget has grown from 50 billion. to 140 B.C.E. kr annually. Wage and cost growth and more inhabitants are a natural part of the explanation, but an increasingly intricate bureaucracy to keep track of counting edges, waiting times, reporting and papers is also a major part of the growth. While the Labour Party and the Right are squeezing about explaining whether we are in the wrong queue, and detailing the hospital sector with missions, DRGs, reporting and related bureaucracy, the Left's response is to focus more on prevention, public health and welfare technology, so that people do not become waiting list or swing door spaces. The first evaluations of the large national welfare technology project aimed at chroniclers indicate a halve of hospitalisations. Will the Prime Minister join the Left in putting a little more emphasis on public health and prevention and a little less on the free choice of invisible waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e183	The government believes that prevention is the absolute most important thing in the long run to do something about health. Making sure that people can master their own health better can greatly relieve some of the public health services. What we're doing, among other things. by giving the nurses more opportunities for specialisation, by being in the municipalities and by being responsible for individual groups, provide easier follow-up and people can live at home. All of this is part of the message we had about primary health care, which is supposed to be preventive, but also deterrent, so that those with chronic diseases get better help without going into hospitals. There will be a build-up of the kind of health care out in municipalities in the years to come. Welfare technology is also important, not least to ensure that older people can live longer at home and feel more control and dignity in their own lives when they get help. But we have to treat people who have cancer, in hospitals, and we also have to treat femoral fractures and other things in hospitals. So it doesn't matter not to say that we shouldn't. We also have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e190	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e193	What Today's Medicine has revealed is a scandal, and I think it is alarming that the Prime Minister is taking it as calmly as these answers give the impression. These answers have a taste of explanation. We must avoid the debate that such matters always end in, that is, that we point to individual leaders or special institutions in the healthcare system, and that the Right and the Workers' Party are exchanging mutual accusations. And then we have to talk about the system that creates such scandals. The system is the problem, and in Norway we have a hospital system with extensive price financing, with strong political pressure to bring down the waiting lists so it looks good for the Minister of Health. Too much is rigged according to what we can measure, instead of after what patients need. The system is set too often in the center instead of the patient. The solution is then to address the extensive use of unit price financing and market mechanisms. My question is how long the government is going to keep its hand on a non-functioning funding system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e202	I completely disagree that it does not work. It works great to lift the activity. That's what we've seen through the health care priorities. What is important is to ensure that we have proper price financing systems, and that in those areas we do not have them, at the same time we have good priority mechanisms that allow us to prioritise areas that are not so easy to address. We treat more people in the Norwegian health care system today than we did before. Let's do it, for example. Because we have a system that makes us get incentives to treat more. We use the resources in a more efficient way in the Norwegian health service than we did in the past. I don't think we can get away from that. I understand that SV wants a completely different funding system, they don't want to see what areas there are challenges. Part of what we do when we have control systems is actually to make sure that patients get the rights they want, that we put the patient and not the system in the center. What SV suggests, is to put the professionals in the center instead of the patients. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e211	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e215	It's easy to imagine that slavery is something that belongs to the past, that it was abolished a few hundred years ago. But the fact is that there are more slaves in the world today than ever. An international research report published on Monday says that perhaps as many as 45 million people are exposed to forced labour, sex slavery and other forms of gross exploitation. Slavery is also available in Norway. Fortunately, in recent years more human trafficking judges have come. A recent Fafo report shows that many children live in slavery also in Norway. Only in just over two years has 139 young people been identified as potential victims of trafficking in human beings. There will be easy numbers, and Dagbladet is now running a series they call 'The Shadows'. That's where we're allowed to meet the individuals. It's e.g. Gloria, 16 years old, who was forced to sell sex outside Oslo City. It's Hannah, 14 years old, who was raped by human traffickers and taken to Norway to sell sex, or Linda, 16 years old, who had to work as a laundry assistant for free and was held prisoner. It's some of the individuals. In several of the stories described in the Fafo report, it appears that adults knew – or at least had some idea – what was going on. They realized that the young girl at the reception was abused as a sex addict, or that the young boy was forced to sell drugs, but they did nothing. In some cases child protection and police were notified, but still Fafo writes that things were not done. It's totally unacceptable. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is: What does the Prime Minister think when she hears or reads stories that children in our own country are being exploited in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e228	It makes a strong impression. It also makes an impression because it shows that we're not yet able to help everyone in our society. It is totally unacceptable that this should occur, and it is totally unacceptable that there should be no reporting, by suspects or otherwise, that children should be exploited, that they should have human trafficking, that they should be exploited in prostitution or in other areas. We know that one of the most important things we can do is fight the backers and the systems associated with this. Many of these systems are linked to what we also see driving the crime of working life. What we see now is that the cooperation we do in the field of work-life crime reveals people who work for a minimum wage, who work under poor conditions – yes, almost slave-like conditions. That's why it's so important that we have this cooperation between the agencies, which can look at both the economy and the tax payments, which are on the immigration side and on the police side, to follow along. In this close collaboration, we have revealed behinders who run what we would call human smuggling, and who diversify, because they often do several different things at once – they are involved in several criminal networks. This can help to do something about just human smuggling. Then it's important that we have a good support device for those who exist. There we know that we're not good enough, also because it's often a question of evidence. There are things that we always need to look at better, whether we can manage to get better follow-up actions for those who have been victims, and which it is clear that have been victims of slave trafficking and for human traffickers and exploitation in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e237	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answer and the commitment she shows. It is extremely important that we, as politicians, take greater responsibility, and in this room I think that I may have pushed up to ten times on the Minister of Justice to get an action plan, because the previous one went out in 2014. There would be coordination in all the areas in which the Prime Minister is involved. But I'm going to promise the Prime Minister that through the work of the Justice Committee, we have raised several million dollars to work for the police, support equipment, etc. An important decision taken in this room was to set up human trafficking teams at each reception where there are minors between 15 and 18 years of age. At Hvalstad, they had such a team, and only in 2011 identified the 26 potential victims, and in 2012 they identified 42 potential victims. So many kids got help because of those teams. Now Stortinget has said this is coming. But my question is, what about that kind of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e242	I cannot answer in detail how far we have come in this respect. It is important that those who work at reception have competence on these questions, that they have competence in where they are going and who they are going to report to. It is also important that it is clear that when young people and children disappear from reception, police investigations should be initiated. It is in today's guidelines that there should be police investigation of these matters. Some times it's because they have parents that are somewhere else -- we know that. We also know that many of the people who work at the receptions notice it and see that some people, for example. have parents who have come to Germany, in a situation where they are refugees, and that they coordinate and perhaps return to their parents. But there's also an excuse sometimes to say that you shouldn't track down and see what happens to the others, because there may be a lot of people who are exposed to completely different types of abuse. And then there are those who have never come through a reception. There are many who come here just like family members, or who come to work permits, who end up in a situation that is slave-like, even in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e247	It opens up for follow-up questions – first the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e250	The report from Fafo concludes that the current structure of child protection is not able to ensure the proper care of children who are not yet resident in municipalities. There are few municipalities and case handlers who have to work on such matters on a regular basis, which leads to a relaunch of the development of competence in each case. Unfortunately, the fragmented responsibility for this group often leads to these children not getting the help they need. Fafo proposes that consideration be given to the establishment of a central unit responsible for the follow-up of these children. Such a unit may accompany children who are victims or potential victims of trafficking in human beings, and it shall also be able to assist local child protection offices and others working with this group in the detection and provision of guidance. So my question to the Prime Minister is whether the government will consider setting up such a unit to ensure good enough care for the children and combating trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e259	I think it's important to think about it before deciding exactly which organisational model to have, because I think some of the benefit of this is that you're close to the children, and a central unit might be able to guide those who work near the children, but it can't do the job out there. And it's important that those who work close to the kids have to be the ones who have the skills. So the way you make sure they have the skills to follow up and to be able to answer them and talk to them, I think the core question is in this context. Whether we're going to organise it as a central unit, or whether we're going to use the expertise that exists, for example. in child protection and police a number of places, to train those who are in reception at what they are looking for, there may also be a thought of making more systematic. There are some politicians who have been better at working on this. The Police Chamber in Hordaland has, among other things: led a couple of issues related to human trafficking and other and having experience in getting into that kind of a little bit of difficult stuff.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e264	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e267	The Prime Minister says that it is important that those who carry out the tasks close to the children know what to do and have the necessary knowledge. What we've read about this is really dramatic. It's pretty devastating for these kids, and maybe there's more than those we're informed about through this newspaper report. The special thing is that these are already known in the sector. They've been discovered and seen. The Prime Minister and the Office of the Prime Minister are responsible for coordinating actions between departments. These children need action from several ministries, and they need action that works and is coordinated. It has, among other things, the settlement parties and the Workers' Party entered into the agreement on the reception of refugees. What does the Prime Minister do to coordinate the actions of these children between departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e274	The task of the Prime Minister is to designate the department responsible for coordination. If your children are under 15 years of age, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs has the overall responsibility for the action being taken. If your children are over 15 years of age, the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion are responsible. Work is important in the interaction between these two departments on skills, knowledge and not just on human trafficking related to those who are children, because this is also a question for some adults, it is a question for some women. So slave trade and slave-like conditions also happen among adults who have come here in different ways. In particular, it is difficult for a very large number of those who have no longer stayed and who are therefore illegally staying in Norway and who are in a very vulnerable situation in order to be exploited for slave-like work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e279	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e283	As others have pointed out, many of the children involved are children who have lived or who live in reception centres. We can conclude that long-term stay in asylum facilities is not good for children. The disappearances from asylum recipients we have seen are also very problematic. In fact, with regard to having children living in reception centres, it is the only area where there is a queue, and the reason for that is the funding. The reason for this is that municipalities do not want to settle, because the big community does not provide the necessary funding. Municipalities do not have their own pot to settle, nor to settle children. My question is quite simply: what will the Prime Minister do to make lone minor asylum seekers more quickly resident in the municipalities and better protected by local child protection, and how will it help to improve funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e292	Fortunately, we now see that the housing figures for the youngest single minors increase significantly outside the municipalities, and the inflow is slightly smaller. So there's a slightly better balance in the situation right now. There is good pediatric competence in the institutions where children under the age of 15 are. There are institutions under the auspices of child protection, and they have a good follow-up. We have proposed to the KS – and have been negotiating with the KS – to introduce a more price-oriented model for this, as we have for other residents. The reimbursement system we have today has the challenge of being refunded no matter what action is taken. It also means that there is a very wrong incentive to increase with measures that might not have been necessary, or not necessarily to be critical enough to which measures are implemented, and whether they are the best. We believe that it should be an opportunity for the municipalities that are good at this, in fact – when they receive a single price financing for each settlement, which is to take account of the large costs – to serve on it for other tasks on that settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e299	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e302	We can talk about human trafficking, but if you're not able to react on the individual issues, it doesn't help much. When it comes to Yasmin, who at the age of ten became orphans, and for 15 years has been exposed to human trafficking and prostitution in many countries. She came to Norway and managed to escape to a crisis centre, but now Norway is using the Dublin rules to throw her out to Hungary, where we know that it is not exactly ‘welcome here’ to people a day. It is that when the criminal case of the rearmen is removed, the protection system does not work in Norway. Now I have asked the government: will you ignore the Dublin legislation on such matters? And will you change the legislation, so that even those who are exposed to gross trafficking in human beings can be covered by it, when you have not put in place this action plan against trafficking in human beings, which we have been waiting for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e311	As the representative Karin Andersen knows, I cannot comment on individual matters in the foreign field – about who is staying or not. I can give a general answer, but I can't do it. It is the governance code in the foreign field. We are concerned about how we can get those who witness to those who have exploited them to stay. That protection came when we were in government on the civil side the last time. I agree that we need to look at what this legislation is like when it comes to criminal matters that you can't carry out completely, when you've testified about the backers, and what security it is. But it has to be done on a general basis. This cannot be done to resolve an individual case, because it would be contrary to foreign law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e318	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e321	I'm going to delight the Prime Minister in giving her the opportunity to talk about one of the government's greatest and most important achievements, namely the municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e326	Yesss!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e331	On Sunday and Monday this week, 52 referendums were held on the merger of municipalities, where four out of five municipalities refused to merge. Until 2016 there has been a referendum in 130 municipalities. 87 municipalities have said no. 26 have said yes. The remaining 17 are either split or have had different options. Election attendance has been high, especially in municipalities with high resistance. Example is Snow with 72 pst., Frosta 66 pst., Eidfjord 68 pst., Modale 74 pst., Fitjar 68 pst., Slow dwelling 72 pst. And Vik and Vanylven 63 pst., to mention someone. The population surveys show that resistance to aggregation is highest among the youngest population. The government has gone backwards into this reform process. Instead of first clarifying tasks and finances and then discussing aggregation, the government chose the opposite. The municipalities were instructed to create maps and discuss who they would join with, whether they wanted to or not. The new problems that were to come, they never came. The reform process is now receiving massive criticism from rapporteurs, councillors, local government representatives and citizens. People vote no and no again in referendums. The review of the reform varies between ‘the reform is continuing to falter’, ‘there is failure’ or ‘there is chaos’. However, the Minister of State is satisfied. He believes that the processes are good and that the obvious no-majority in a large majority of municipalities is as expected. Does the Prime Minister share the prime minister's assessment that the reform work is successful and that the massive resistance of a large majority of referendums is expected?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e342	That in referendums there can be a large no-majority of some places, is as expected. We've been through this many times before. It is a demanding operation to argue for change. It's easier to say yes to the status quo. I know some of these municipalities – Eidfjord was mentioned among others. Of course, when one of the richest municipalities in the country is going to share the money with some not so rich municipalities, it's not like the people are going to cheer up to vote for it. But they should be reminded that they also promised to do this community merger as a result of us building the Hardanger Bridge. It was actually one of the premises that the same municipalities sold in, the time we from the government a little over ten years ago promoted the Hardanger Bridge, because it was so important to have a common housing and labour market region. That time it was an obstacle. I believe that it is expected that we will get many nos. But then I'm glad there were many exciting attempts. For example, many large regional municipalities were tried to build. It was probably time immature, and it shows the reaction to it. At the same time, we see that there are many places where the smaller municipalities see themselves working together, because they may see that they should provide a good professional offer to their citizens in the critical areas for those who need the most help, it is right to merge. Then we have some challenges in some areas, which are that there are some municipalities that have said yes, and some that have said no, and that are really related. It is a question that we have to decide on as a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e353	When the Prime Minister says that some places have said no, it is understatement. There are 87 municipalities that have said no, and that's 20 have said yes. Welfare services such as care for the elderly and schooling near people mean too many. People have solid experience that aggregation means centralization. That's what makes people refuse to merge municipalities. All studies show that people in smaller municipalities are well-satisfied with their own municipality and well-being. As an argument for needing change, the Right has shown that the Right Party has been working for municipal mergers for 30 years. It has not occurred to the Prime Minister that the reason for the failure of the party is that the arguments for aggregation are not good enough? After 30 years of failed work for municipal reunification, one must be able to ask whether the prime minister has ever reflected on it – that larger municipalities may not be the only salvaging thing, and that people do not see it as the answer to getting good welfare services in the care of the elderly, health and school?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e363	Now the situation is that there are 46 municipalities that have said yes to referendums, and 109 have said no. That's the numbers that we're sitting with. It's probably a slightly different picture than the numbers Marit Arnstad mentioned, although it's a big no-majority. There's been a confusing menu that you'd have to add over some places. But we also know that we have 18 municipalities that have adopted aggregations – 6 aggregations in total. That means you're on your way well. I think that we're something ahead of the public opinion sometimes characterize a party that's concerned about solving the problems for the future. We are concerned that we should ensure that Norway becomes a good place to live in the future. Much of this government’s work is to secure the future of the welfare state of Norway. It is also about ensuring that we have respect for professional competence and respect for the quality associated with competence. We must ensure that even the weakest users in Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e370	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e373	I notice that the Prime Minister says that she herself is a little ahead of the people, and that she who sits in her beautiful office in Oslo is a little wiser than people out there. I disagree with that assessment. In 2004, Erna Solberg was the municipal minister, and she pointed it out in her first answer. I can read what Erna Solberg wrote in a chronicle in the VG. ‘I am concerned that all citizens should be offered good and adapted services. I do not think that in 2010 we will feel that it will be this way without changes in the municipal structure." Now we are not in 2010, we are not in 2012, we are not in 2014 – we are in 2016. And what is the assessment of services in municipalities today? The municipal barometer for KS: Alvdal, Siljan and Jölster came out best, not typical major municipalities. When we look at the population surveys, the smallest and medium-sized municipalities have come out best, not the largest, as Erna Solberg said, would get out best if she had merged many municipalities. How does Erna Solberg assess her own opinions now, that if you didn't get a merger in 2004, it would be a miserable offer in many small municipalities in 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e383	I record that very many people also point out the challenges of competence and professional environment in the smaller municipalities, that very many who work in professional groups point out that there are too small professional environments. We have had discussions on the subject of child protection in the past, in which it is believed that there should be at least five child-rescue workers in order to have a broad and adequate level of competence to deal with difficult child-rescue issues. It's a signal that we actually need bigger municipalities to do it. So it's like, at some point, we're not just going to be able to solve all the problems of spending more money, and we're not going to be able to solve any of those problems -- by spending more money -- if we don't have enough professional skills around to solve it. The major challenge for Norwegian municipalities will be when the ageing wave is too full. With the visions of the future that exist, many of the smallest municipalities will experience that a very large proportion of their inhabitants are older and will be in need of help, and municipalities will have a capacity problem to solve when the wave of older people once strikes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e390	Stine Renate Håheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e393	The country's rapporteurs and the country's elected representatives from all parties have taken a great deal of responsibility. They've discussed and they've investigated, and they've engaged the population in important discussions about how we can best create the best possible well-being for the population. There is no doubt that there have been demanding processes. The municipalities have been told to find the structure before tasks are known. There has been confusion as to whether it is coercive or voluntary, whether the State should draw the map or whether it should listen to the population, and there has been a change in the income system in the middle of that process. Then it may not be so strange that it is the Prime Minister who stands here alone and shouts "yess", while the people out there don't necessarily follow the same tone. So then my question is: does the Prime Minister see in the middle of the process, if you're going to think a little bit about what you've done, that you could do something different from the government in the work on community reform, which could contribute to a little greater enthusiasm among the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e398	There could have been different processes, but it would have been just as bad, no matter what kind of process we had chosen, because this is a bad and close discussion for many. Now there is a discussion about the fear of losing some jobs in their town hall. When several municipalities are merged, what is it like in this municipality? In some places, there is uncertainty about how to maintain the provision of welfare – there are many such issues. I've been at community meetings related to community reunification, and I know what people are asking about. They're asking about the close things, and it's actually also the close politicians who can give better answers than what you can do in national politics. It wouldn't have been easier if we had chosen other processes. We will now shortly submit to the consultation the proposals for changing tasks for municipalities. They are in line with the plan we presented in 2014 for this process. We now have a milestone in counting up and looking at how far we have come in the process, and come back to Stortinget with it. But the fundamental question all politicians have to ask is, are we sure that in the future we can accept that we have so much difficulty in making structural changes and that we always have a discussion about process rather than about content?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e403	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e406	It's a little strange to hear the Prime Minister standing here and yelling 'yess', when the response from the population is a rather massive no, or perhaps even more indifference. It is believed that this does not answer future questions. After all, it is possible to choose to spend money on employees in child protection and care for the elderly rather than on taxation. It is a choice that can be made to ensure better child protection and better care for the elderly in the future. But some of the comical things may have been that when the people say no, the government relies on rapporteurs and advisers, who they hope will say yes – the same rapporteurs and advisers they think there are too many of them and who are going to go away. And now in the last round, it's the county that's going to draw a map. And then the question is: will the government use the maps of the County and call the local recording, which they will use to say that here you actually have some local advice that you want to follow, and coercion municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e413	I can refer to repeated answers to that question in the Questionnaire earlier. We have said that what is currently happening is what the Stortinget also agreed to in 2014 and which, fortunately, I experienced that the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, yesterday in a debate meeting confirmed was still the Labour Party's policy, that in matters where it is that someone has said yes and e.g. a municipality has said no, and that prevents aggregation, you have to be able to make an assessment at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e418	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e422	Today's Businesses have seen the search light on parts of the Norwegian petroleum tax system and payments from the state treasury in the hundreds of trillions class to oil companies that are being cut down or go under. The DN systems have been rewritten, which is about leadership mergers, where all oil companies, regardless of whether an interest in money, are covered by 78 pst. by the search costs, and by the appeal mechanism, whereby companies terminating the operation on a subsidized Norwegian base were paid the tax value of external deficits, were created as a result of a NOU around the year 2000 and were introduced early in the 2000s. It was probably right in its time. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is There are probably a lot of other industries that can think of a system where the state covers 78 pst. the cost regardless of whether a tender is made, and a cash-disbursement arrangement if one terminates the business with a deficit. The left has, at several conditions, challenged the government and the government on a new review of the rules of taxation for the petroleum industry, a new NOU. I think it's particularly important when the financial risk associated with oil business is both much larger now and willing to increase over the next ten years. Why does the government not want to be in on this? It can't be that today's legislation is 100 pst. Ideal when we see the results, as DN has written about the last few days. And isn't everyone thinking about – which is also questions to the Prime Minister – more knowledge and assessments of what is the ideal tax ego for such an important industry, looking up to the framework conditions they will necessarily meet in the next ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e429	I'm glad that Terje Breivik says it might have been wise that time, since it was a government with the Left Party, the Christian Party and the Right that suggested it, in 2002. It has contributed to some important things. It has contributed to more diversity on the base. This contributed, inter alia, to: for Lundin to establish itself – Lundin, who found the Johan Sverdrup field, which contributes to the activity of billions into the Norwegian economy in the years to come, and which contributes to, among others. to create a little more optimism at the moment in parts of the oil and gas industry. One of the important things when we are in such a difficult situation as the oil and gas industry is in now is to be clear and clear on what framework conditions future investments will have. That is why we are negative about launching major processes that are worrying about the framework conditions taxing investment in the oil and gas industry. That's our reason for not wanting a new review right now. It will be very wrong timing to start big processes to change the framework conditions when we know that many of the investments to make are actually only going to be produced in 10, 15 and 20 years. I would not give the oil and gas industry a negative signal today that we are about to change the tax system and make it worse for the investments. This will mean more unemployed people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e436	Thanks for your answer - this is not unexpected. But I want to say the opposite, there's no more optimal timing than starting such an arrangement now. I am amazed that a Right-dominated government is no longer busy using the tax system optimally to ensure the competitiveness of the Norwegian petroleum industry in the low-emission age. If the Prime Minister believes and intends to contribute to the model when the government signed the Paris Agreement, the world in 2050–2060 will have an abundance of oil and gas at very different costs than that would be the case for example. in the Barents Sea. If the world is to be closed, there will be an international charging system that provides climate discount on pure fossil energy, and the competitiveness of the Norwegian petroleum industry in such a regime will largely depend on one being the purest production and product. For me and the Left, it is a mystery that the government and the Prime Minister will not help us use the tax system to strengthen and help the industry to have a future in the 1.5 degree scenario.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e445	I disagree that there is a need to make changes to the tax system for the oil and gas industry now. I believe that the costs of it would be more unemployed if we started a process in which we created uncertainty about the framework conditions. One of the important objectives we have for technology development and other, is to ensure that there are several actors inside, that, in particular, when we accepted the Hydro/Statoil merger, we have several actors inside. That is why we have contributed to a favourable system to start looking, against the fact that we have a tight system of taxation with a high degree of both the state's ownership and high taxation during the production period. It has been a trade-off that has given us development, and has given us new findings, which I think have been good. Then it will be that in the years to come production in Norway will either fall. It's already going down on oil, and it's going to go down on gas in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e454	There will be follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e457	After the Paris agreement, it has almost been felt that the three wise monkeys from Asia have been introduced into Norwegian politics – it is not heard, not see, not talk oil down. But you have to take on the unpleasant, and that's what the three wise monkeys are all about, that you actually have to face what's unpleasant. What we see is that after the conclusion of the Paris agreement, Texaco went in as a large oil company and was going to make a completely new valuation of the company. How much value does an oil company actually have after the Paris agreement? We're talking about stability here. It is unstable, and then we have to change the means, then we have to make the means work to achieve the goals that we actually set, and it is – there are many unparliamentary words that I could use, but I am not going to – to go in the wrong direction to think that you should only continue as before if you really meet the challenges we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e464	There is a disagreement between the government and the Left on whether we are going to have oil and gas business or not in the future. I think we just have to agree that we disagree. We believe that Norway is still an important industry. We believe that our gas production contributes in the medium term to a shift in Europe that allows us to go from less coal to more gas use, and there is demand for gas out there. So it's like the companies have to make their financial assessments of whether the expansions they're going into are profitable to them as a company. But one of the things that has been peculiar to Norwegian pedestals as opposed to very many other countries' oil and gas activities is that we have been perceived as having little political risk. Although we have a higher tax system and oil companies are left with less of the profits, there is little political risk, because they have been concerned with stable framework conditions. That's what I'm concerned that it's still going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e471	Per Rune Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e474	Petroleum industry is our second-largest industry in this country, and tens of thousands have lost their jobs in the petroleum industry during this government – most of them in the South and West. The Workers' Party has in every crossroads promoted concrete measures that will dampen the fall in activity, so that we retain the necessary skills and capacity in the industry, because we know that this is a cyclical industry, we know that there will be an upsurge, we know from experience that we will have a ketchup effect that all investments will be started at the same time, and then we must have both the competence and the capacity to cover as much of this as possible. We're not being heard. It is the government's policy to leave the market raw in this sector. The country's largest industry is left to the violence of oil companies. So let me not make any new proposals from the Workers' Party this time, but look at the government's own political platform, where changes in the petroleum tax system will be assessed to improve resource management and increase extraction rates. When will such changes come, and what will they look like?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e483	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are already 600 million oil tax reliefs in the current year's budget. kr because of the changes we are making in company taxation, so we have already introduced tax incentives for oil companies to contribute to the investments. The measures proposed by the Labour Party include: more study. We've had a round with the oil companies and asked for more study, and what they're saying is that they're studying what they're going to do not produce for the future. If they're going to study more, they're going to study possibilities for smaller expansions, and you can use the same wells in additional bits. That's the answer we get back. Then you take away future opportunities by studying a well that you can in the future think is going to be used to produce. That's the answer we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e490	Audun Lighthouse – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e494	We got a good example of poor communication between the Prime Minister and our own support party here, because if Erna Solberg really believes that what the Left wants is not to have any oil and gas activities, or that's what the other environmental parties want, then she's wrong. What this question was about, very precisely, I think, is the danger that we'll subsidize investments in things we can't exploit in the future. And not only is it missing that review The Left calls for the petroleum tax return in the light of the 1.5-degree target, but there is a lack of a comprehensive review of Norwegian oil and gas policy in the light of the 1.5-degree target. What we noticed when the 23rd concession round came, was that both the representatives of the industry and the government parties were very keen to see when that question came up, because one has no answer to how much of our oil and gas resources could be extracted in a 1.5 degree scenario. It is absolutely essential to get it done, and therefore my question to the Prime Minister – if she does not want to take the call to the Left – is whether she will at least initiate a general review of that issue, which will be absolutely fundamental both for Norwegian climate policy and for Norwegian oil and gas policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e499	It is the case that Norwegian oil and gas industries are within the EU quota system and, in addition, there is a strange CO2 tax that triggers many of the projects that have the potential to reduce emissions in the production process itself. What that means in the future is that when the price of the allowances starts to rise, the cost of producing it will also do so. This means that when you have an allowance system, it means the emissions that are in Norway. The alternative would be elsewhere in Europe, if it is not in Norway, and then there is competition for the most optimal economic solutions to meet the CO2 challenges and climate challenges. That was the principle that the previous government stood for, and that is what we stand for in the quota sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e510	Then Audun Lighthouse can stay standing, because he also has the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e513	I think it is in place today with a congratulations to the Prime Minister. I believe that she deserves congratulations for having managed to get the Workers' Party on a tax settlement that will give 1.5 billion. D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D It is good political craftsmanship, but it is bad policy for Norway. We had now needed changes in the tax system that contribute to fairer distribution, which helps to dampen the pressures in the housing market, which do something about the tax havens. Instead, we get a further cut in property taxes and now also in dividend taxes. This week we saw the distribution effects of the tax changes proposed here. While one often talks about changes in property taxes to help owners of small businesses, business owners in the start-up phase, etc., these figures show that it might be called a normal wealthy person, people with between 1 million. NOK 5 million. kr in wealth, each receives one hundred kroner in wealth tax relief — while the 1400 richest in Norway, 0.2 per million of the population, receive SEK 326 000 each: €0.5 billion. kr in tax cuts. Then my question is: does the Prime Minister think that the richest 0.2 per million have such a large, unmet need that they need 0.5 billion. kr in lower tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e524	I'm assuming that that rose was really just to give a kick to someone and give others a bismach. I believe that we do not give money to the rich because they need anything more. We don't give money to people who have invested in businesses, because they need more for their private consumption. We give it because we need more jobs, we give it because someone has to invest risk capital into Norwegian jobs, in the transition we're facing. We can have a lot of good ideas, and we can have a big tool, but we also need someone to invest capital into the jobs we're going to have for the future. What we're doing now is lowering the value of what one can call working capital or equity assets and other things that are inside the operation. This means that one forces less dividends to pay the tax, which means that several companies can have the money back to reinvest, but also that the capital can be more easily transferred to risk projects than to go into owning more properties around the country. It is a good reform for the distribution policy, to get a job is the most important distribution policy in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e533	The Prime Minister is an ambassador for the UN's Sustainable Development Goals and travels around the world asking people to follow them. Sustainability objective No 10 is to reduce the inequality in and between countries. In order to reduce inequality within the different countries, those who have signed have undertaken to ensure that the poorest 40 pst. the population shall achieve a higher income increase than the average population. So that's what Erna Solberg asks other countries to do, but at home the government has a policy that points in a completely different direction. One gets big tax cuts for those who have the most from before, while the bill is sent to e.g. single-age pensioners, unemployed with children, unemployed who do not receive holiday pay, etc. It's a little special to travel around the world and ask other countries to distribute more fairly and then do the opposite themselves. That's why my question is, what does the sustainability ambassador really do to the poorest 40 pst. of the population in our country to achieve a higher income increase than the average population?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e542	The main challenge for the poorest in Norway, and to raise their income, is to move them from outside the labour market to entering the labour market. It gives a solid income promise if one does so, and not least it gives a future opportunity – and it gives an incredible symbolic effect on their children again, because we know that poverty can in part also be inherited in our society. It's a persistent problem. That means that all this government is doing to create the new jobs, also to qualify people to take the new jobs. The big message we've delivered is about people on the verge of falling outside, the labour market measures, our ability to give people more skills that will enable them to be in the labour market in the future, but also to stop young people falling out of the labour market because no one quickly offers them an offer. That is why we have also said that we should impose employment obligations on recipients of social assistance, because then we immediately start to make sure that they get an offer that makes them not to fall outside. It will generate revenue growth for the 40 pst. The poorest with the greatest challenges in Norwegian society, because it is the work relationship that is most important in that respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e551	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e554	If the Prime Minister had spent that money on action and qualification instead of on tax laws, there would have been less poverty and more people would have got a job. But the government has, on the contrary, done the same thing, because they've got rid of the poorest and taken from them benefits, which means that they'll strive more to get into work. If the Prime Minister doesn't believe in SV, you can, for example, check the OECD. The OECD said in 2014 that there are increasing differences that result in lower economic growth: they say that we need to increase taxes to the wealthy and those with high incomes, and they say that counting on a kind of trickle-down effect on the different layers of the population, undermines growth in the long term, because the inequalities actually increase. And then, in that case, the prime minister must answer: does she think that when the OECD proves that Norway had been 9 billion? kr richer if we had had better distribution than today – is the OECD completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e563	The OECD recommends that we ensure that labour incentives are brought into the labour market. So let's do that. Some of the changes we have made in welfare schemes are about making work incentives better. The OECD also recommends removing taxes on wealth and reducing taxes on capital. So if you base the OECD recommendations, they're probably closer to the government's policy than the SV's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e568	Truls Wickholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e572	In the tax settlement, SV has chosen to play a known role, namely to stand out from taking responsibility. The Labour Party has agreed with the government on a tax settlement such as: contains a valuation equal to that of shares and property, which prevents biased investments. We're happy with that. But my question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister aware that the tax settlement binds the parties to a tax rate other than 23 pst. in corporate taxes and general income? Are not the parties really free to pursue their own fiscal policy in addition to the tax settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e579	It is absolutely right that there will be opportunities both to increase the rate and to lower the rate of taxes on wealth and to make other changes. What we agree on is that we need to have the same valuation system, which contributes to a slightly better relationship between investing in buildings rather than investing in jobs and contributing risk capital to the development of new jobs in Norway. But precisely because there is less risk in property than in other things, increased taxes on wealth will always help to make it less attractive to enter risk areas of the economy. And we're going to need more risk capital in the years to come. It's very important if we're going to make the transition we're up to. It's not just a matter of talking about research and ways and everything we do a lot of; we have to actually also see that our tax system has a big meaning. I am very pleased with the reduction in corporate tax and that we agree on it, and that it is going to be fixed. But besides that, I would warn against taking advantage of that freedom to prevent jobs from coming to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e588	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e591	At the National Meeting of the Court of Justice, Erna Solberg said that ‘economic policy is now working strongly to combat unemployment’. ‘Don’t let anyone tell you anything else,’ said Solberg, to the great cheer of Right-wing politicians. But tens of thousands of people in Norway can tell Erna Solberg and Right about something completely different. Ordinary people tell us about the despair of losing a job, as the engineer says to TV 2 about Erna Solberg: "I don't understand what she's talking about. That's when she has to take care of it. [[...]] It's now, right now, it's happening." Or the rapporteur in Haugesund, who says that: ‘The measures are too late, they are too small to have significant significance and they do not stop the negative spiral. the loss in tax revenue is so high that it leads to contractions and new cuts that in turn lead to even more lost jobs». [[...]] Or the president of the NHO, who tells us that evolution is going in the wrong direction: ‘The barometer from the 1st quarter 2016 shows how the crisis is spreading to almost all parts of the country. Oslo and Akershus are beginning to approach the negative market outlooks experienced by Western businesses." The economic policy of the government does not seem to be swept away vigorously to combat unemployment, as the Prime Minister says. We have more people without work than over 20 years. The government believes that 20 billion. Tax cuts will provide more jobs, but despite high-record oil money consumption to finance these tax cuts, unemployment continues to increase. High-ranking unemployment is a waste of Norway’s labour resources. High-ranking tax cuts are wasted on Norway's capital resources. Norway needs a different policy. My question is: does Erna Solberg continue to insist that the government's policy is strong against unemployment, or does she take into account the serious reality people in Norway are telling us about?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e613	It is possible to do two things at once: to think that politics is powerful, and to have taken on board – for the most part – how this situation affects all those who become unemployed. I have great respect for the fact that this is incredibly difficult. When you come from Western countries, when you have friends who have become unemployed, when you see developments that happen in many places, it's of course serious. At the same time, however, economic policy is working. The social partners have made a formidable contribution through the wage settlements over the last two years. The course has gone down. It helps to increase the competitiveness of many other enterprises. We also have a fiscal policy that helps us to have a lot of good measures to ensure that people who would otherwise be unemployed now get action. I've visited them, I've met people who have been taken out of the unemployment line and are in work. It was just these things that I said when I summed up with the sentence that Trond Giske now refers to. What we see in the revised national budget is that we have changes in the macro-figures that show a more difficult economic situation for Norway, while the unemployment figures have been much more stable. It is also an indicator that economic policy works to prevent us from being given too much leave as a consequence of economic policy. We have to do more, and I'm glad that the Storting made a deal that we're going to do. It's going to mean even more during this year. But we're on the right track to see that the measures we've taken help people to get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e622	There is no doubt that something is happening. The krone price is falling sharply, our purchasing power towards the outside world is reduced, people's real wages and real wages growth are severely weakened. Unemployment, on the other hand, is enormously high, and that was what the Prime Minister spoke about at the Højre National Meeting – that economic policy now works strongly to combat unemployment. It doesn't. This morning we heard that not only youth is hit hard, but that unemployment among people over 60 has increased by nearly 30 pst. since 2014. It's actually one of the groups where the unemployment rate increases faster. Conversion results in seniors being pushed out, with large costs for them personally, including in the form of pensions, in a situation where the pension and the real purchasing power of pensioners have already been reduced. It breaks, says the Director of the Center for Senior Policy, completely with the policy objective of pension reform. Does the Prime Minister now see that this affects people of all ages, including the oldest, and that unemployment is record high?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e627	Today's news that there are several older people who become unemployed, or who are forced to retire earlier, is a very negative news, in the form that this is what we've seen every time we've had an increase in unemployment. – Thank you so much, now it comes from all sides [[The Minister of State is allowed to stop the cough]] We also have to be good at telling them that the trade unions have a job to do here. I believe that the trade unions should not avail themselves of this. Unfortunately, we have sometimes experienced that the trade unions too believe that this is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e634	There will be follow-up questions – first Truls Wickholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e637	The Statistical Centre has now analysed the various economic policies, and they conclude that investing in public investment creates 15 times more jobs than spending the same money on tax cuts. It creates 15 times more jobs in the private sector. To date, the government has not created a single private job in sum of government policy – in sum, not a single job. Isn't it time, when the government says it's familiar with these calculations of the SSB, that one stops wasting our common resources on tax cuts for those who already have the most, and starts spending money on what creates jobs in the private sector – and now creates it – namely investment through the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e642	It is to enter an open door that the tax reliefs are not set at night to create new jobs. I have answered questions in Stortinget earlier. No, the tax relief is not a short-term measure of the unemployment rate. The increase in the appropriations for maintenance – so we now have a package of almost 5 billion. maintenance and other incentives – are too short-term to combat unemployment, but it is for the long-term transition that tax relief is important. In fact, I hope that the Workers' Party agrees, because when the press conference was held and the tax reform was presented, the Workers' Party argued that these tax concessions were important for future employment, in order to create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e647	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e651	I get a bad conscience to extend the Prime Minister's Question Time, but we'll see if the subject matter is so important that we can continue. I'm glad of what the Prime Minister stresses, because it's a two-part job. It's both an acute crisis that we need to take action to reduce unemployment, and it's long-term transitions that we're doing well. I think it's going to be demanding, but now at least more measures are coming through the revised budget. But where we might have an even bigger job to do, we see that many of those who now lose their jobs are going very far away from work, and where we see that the proportion of people with disabilities who are at work, for example, have fallen. There are a lot of people who, when there are more people out there, get even further away from work. Unfortunately, we have not raised any more areas of action either in the budget or in the revision, so I think that is a priority we need to give to the future. Does the Prime Minister agree that an even greater effort must be made to ensure that those people do not end up in labour statistics?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e660	I agree. So I think we need to have a little different types of measures, because everything is not labour market measures. What goes on competence, what creates more flexibility in the education system for modules, everything we do for reading, writing and effort there, helps make it easier. What is a cross-estimate is that with the high growth rate in the Norwegian economy from 2004 to 2008-2009, the proportion of people with disabilities in work did not increase. That's what I think was one of the big questions: we had big growth, and there were many new jobs, but we couldn't include more. That means we need to have different types of measures than just creating jobs. So I fully agree that we need to take action aimed at that group, and we need to work more on the attitudes of people as servants. Sometimes it's a barrier to hire someone with disabilities that you don't see what they're good for – you see either the blind stick or the wheelchair as a barrier.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e665	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e668	The need for more money from the Right and the Advance Party a late night before Christmas has led to the disappearance of 1,000 jobs in Eastfold. Up to 1,000 families attend an uncertain summer. They lose their job thanks to political decisions supported by the Right Party and the Progress Party. Right-wing rapporteur in Moss, Tage Pettersen, has repeatedly tried to identify the fact that Eastfold is one of the highest unemployment counties in Norway. He has also repeatedly asked for a package of measures to help workers in Eastfold. Now it's confirmed that this county, which already has a high unemployment rate, is going to get up to 1,000 new job vacancies. Why has the government not come up with a single measure for Eastfold? Why is it a forgotten state that the government's policy now pushes people into the job queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e673	I don't think it's the government's policy that pushes people out of work. I think those who calculate that the Ryanair had in any case remained on the Back, are wrong. I think it's important, and I think it's interesting to see how many people are now calling about a company that they've otherwise wanted your pepper to grow in many debates before. It was for the interesting observation of Norwegian political discussion. It is that as we increase labour market measures, there is also more money for the counties. They shall be distributed throughout the country to the counties with the highest leave. This means that when Østfold has higher unemployment than others, they get a greater share of the labour market measures than the other gets. The type of automatic systems works where they are. In fact, the situation is that the unemployment rate in Eastfold has fallen. It's one of the states that's had a falling unemployment lately, even though it's still higher than the average in the country. And of course, we'll look at different types of measures if we end up with smoking being abandoned. There will be opportunities to see what we are going to do in such a situation, but there is no reason for us to plan for something that a private company might have to make its own decisions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e680	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e683	In a reading in DN today, economists Juel and Richeles are effectively picking from each other’s representative Wickholm’s populist manufacture of the SSB report ordered by the Workers’ Party. Increased public consumption and investment will undoubtedly have a short-term, rapid impact on employment, and for this reason, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party have prioritised one – according to all objective criteria – fairly fierce, extraordinary, public urgent money management package, now reinforced by a new, good billion in the RNB. And, as the Prime Minister says, we still need to have two thoughts in our head at the same time – short-term, urgent measures and more long-term structural change measures, where a tax and tax haven is at the heart of what we want more of: jobs and industrial development. And another natural step forward in that way is, among other things, removing the employer’s fees for the first to be added to the start-up enterprises – a change in fees I expect the Prime Minister to think is also natural and sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e692	I agree that we need to make changes to the fees for, among other things, contributing to climate and environmental measures. Sometimes we also have to make changes to the fees in order to contribute to the proceeds. A lot of people say that we should reduce the tax on labour in favour of the taxation of consumption. It is one of the things you do when you move on taxes of that kind – you tax your consumption more and you have a little less tax on work. Making sure people go to work and that working pays off is important. I agree that the SSB report is special. If one pulls it out into its absurdity, it is true that if one employs everyone in the public sector in Norway, there is a lot of employment, but there is not much money and value in the future. And it's probably saying something that the Young Right Leader said when it came, it's easier to spend money than to create money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e699	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e702	Using money is very good for this government, so maybe it's a good place to stop this questioning. But let me just get back quickly to the tax cut that the settlement will trigger for the 1 400 richest people in Norway, because I don't think the Prime Minister answered the challenge so very precisely if it really is that economic policy is powerful against unemployment. After all, we need to assume that all economic policy priorities should be priorities that are effective against unemployment. So when the 1,400 wealthiest in Norway is now going to get another 509 million. Can the Prime Minister then promise us that this tax gift to the richest will be effective against unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e707	Firstly, it contributes to more neutrality in the place where one places the investments. This means that in an area that has been a curious problem, with much more investment of Norwegian capital in property relative to enterprises and equity in enterprises, it contributes to more neutrality. This gives an indication that more money can be moved over. At the same time, I believe that property is still a safer investment in Norway, and therefore it will still be a challenge that we have a wealth tax that taxes risk capital we need to create the new jobs. What we see today, however, is not a short-term measure against unemployment, but a long-term measure to create change and ensure that we create the new jobs that I also perceive SV is very concerned about. You want to reduce oil and gas business faster, but if that's what we all want, it's creating more jobs elsewhere. Someone's got to invest in it. Our challenge in Norway is that we need more people who are willing to invest capital in Norwegian companies and Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e717	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e729	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Jette F. Christensen of the Minister of Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative of Une Aina Bastholm to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has left. The question will be raised by the representative of Rasmus Hansson. Question 10, from the representative of Ms Huitfeldt to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e742	The Prime Minister may stand still if the vote is held, for question No. 1 is from the representative Trond Giske to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e749	It is almost regrettable to have to extend the inquiry procedure for the Prime Minister to wish her a good improvement with her voice. My question is as follows: ‘Society with small differences gives people the greatest opportunity for work, education, wealth and security, but Norway is going the opposite way. Tax policy increases disparities, cuts in welfare schemes affect those who have the least, working conditions are weakened and unemployment is record high. The government is pursuing a policy that, in total, increases the differences. Is this a misguided development by the Prime Minister and the Government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e758	It is the government's goal that Norway should be a country with small differences and minimal poverty. The most important thing we can do to achieve this is get as much work as possible. Therefore, the government will strengthen the working line. It must always pay to work rather than to receive passive social security benefits. These are not always popular reforms, and I note that the Workers' Party has opposed several of them. But the historical experience is that the workline works. When work is paid and there is a requirement for activity, more people are kept in contact with the labour market. That's good health. It also enhances the individual’s competence and ability to cope in a working life with increasing automation and digitisation. In the future, it will be particularly important to combat the crime of working life. The government has, among other things: strengthens the coordination between control rates significantly, introduces apprentice requirements and limits the number of stages in the chain in the case of public tenders. We do not accept unprofessional actors who exploit people and who stand in the way of employers betting on their employees. The school is also important. A society with opportunities for all requires a public knowledge school that generates the potential of individual students, regardless of family background. The government has therefore tripled the investment in continuing training of teachers, and we have increased the apprenticeship grant. We establish a five-year master's education for teachers and strengthen the character requirements to become a teacher. The main challenge now is to create new, profitable jobs in the private sector. Budgetary policy is now actively being used to mitigate the backlog of the economy. I noticed that the Workers' Party seems to be opposed to using this tool. Lower oil activity is a permanent and structural change. At the same time, therefore, the State must contribute to the least cost for society and for individuals. Therefore, the government will have a simpler and more growth-promoting tax system. That is why we are focusing on the development of infrastructure, innovation and research. We are pursuing offensive policies in the areas that matter most. However, Norway is not unaffected by developments internationally. In the years to come, high levels of immigration, not least of refugees, may also increase differences in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e782	In an interview yesterday, the Minister of Finance said that differences in Norway do not increase. This is obviously wrong. We see that pay differentials in Norway are increasing; we see that wealth disparities in Norway are increasing — well-helped by the tax cuts given by the government to those who have the most of them. The difference between those inside, and those outside, is increasing. The number of unemployed is record high, the number of beneficiaries of social assistance is increasing, the number of young people under 30 who are out of work and education is now more than 70,000, and today we heard that more older people are also out of work. The difference between regions in Norway is increasing, unemployment and the crisis in the West is experiencing dramatic — there is almost a doubling of the number of unemployed in e.g. Rogaland. Does the Prime Minister agree with the description that differences in Norway do not increase, or does she take the greater difference seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e789	In a period of increasing unemployment, differences in a society will also increase. Not least because of this, what we think job is the most important thing to prevent differences. Therefore, the situation of increasing unemployment is a short-term challenge. If it becomes a long-term challenge, it depends on whether we are able to create enough new jobs and prevent what has happened in each single wave of high unemployment before, that some people are pushed out of work permanently. Therefore, the measures we take to ensure that people are given skills when they are unemployed are important. What we have done is to soften the legislation on day-to-day pay, so that you can have an association and a further development by completing the education you started before you became unemployed, and also actions related to, for example, social assistance activity requirements, which help to avoid being met with passivity. There are many such measures that are important, and jobs are essentially the most important to prevent differences. The main difference is between those in the labour market and those outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e800	What we can quickly agree on is that people have jobs, that people have the opportunity to live on their own income, is the most important thing to create cohesion. Here's the challenge that we have more unemployed than 20 years — yes, at some measurements, the highest unemployment rate ever measured in terms of the number of people out of work. One of the great mantras to the Right before the 2013 election was that you should do something with the outside cabinet. But on the contrary, we feel that it is going in the opposite direction – the youngest are the most vulnerable, there are 42 000 unemployed under 25, there are young people under 30 who are neither in education nor in work, and there are older people who are being pushed out of work by the fact that businesses are in crisis and are getting rid of those who are older. Does the Prime Minister think that the results of her work on exclusion have so far produced successful results?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e809	We've done a lot to improve the conditions of those outside, so that they can participate more actively. Among other things, we have legal regulation of user-led personal assistance, which is an incredibly important mechanism for the participation of people with disabilities in social life, but also for enabling them to have opportunities in the labour market. There are some consequences of the fall in the oil price – we get higher unemployment. I record that the Workers' Party chooses to forget it every time they discuss other policy areas. In many of these areas it has increased because of it, but one area doesn't just have that answer. The number of young people who were out of work and were not in work — nowhere — was very low in 2008. It used Jonas Gahr Støre in the previous Question Time – but in the years after 2008, there was a dramatic increase. And there's still a little bit of it. But in 2013, it was almost the level that we have today. It's an interesting story, which I notice is that the Workers' Party often comes along.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e829	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e836	This question, from the representative of Una Aina Bastholm to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance. The question will be raised by the representative of Rasmus Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e839	The question to the Minister for Finance, who will be answered by the Minister for Transport – and it is nice – is as follows: ‘In an assessment of the Norwegian IMF economy, it is underlined that Norway has become too oil dependent. The IMF believes that it is a political task to move away from oil dependence, and that we need instruments that contribute to a smooth transition to a less oil-dependent growth model. Taking into account the transition, this will lead to increased unemployment over a longer period, according to the IMF. How does the Council of State plan to reduce Norwegian oil dependence in order to avoid increased unemployment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e848	The subject matter is very important. We need a lot of legs to stand on in an economy, both to create values, to secure the future and to secure jobs. There were many of us who are now in government, who in opposition were pleased with the investments in oil and gas, but who also pointed out the need for better framework conditions for other business. It's everything from founders to the large established companies. I am very pleased that we can now, in the government, implement many of the proposals that the opposition put together earlier, but that were then voted down by the previous government. These include: on the framework conditions for renewable energy, where we have made changes to the depreciation rules and changes to the green certificate system which make it more profitable to invest in renewable energy in Norway than it was in the past. We have also made changes to the framework conditions for data centres by reducing the electricity charge. We travel a lot abroad to show what Norway has to offer, to make it attractive for foreign companies to come to Norway and invest, and we think it will produce results. We see in the fishing industry that more concessions and better incentives make us have a record level of production and exports. In the power-processing industry, we have made changes to the rules for the use of hydropower, which means that Hydro now, along with the money they get from Enova, that is to support green conversion, invests in new technologies that ensure yet another industry. In shipping, we have made changes that make it more profitable to hire Norwegian seafarers than it has been in the past, and that investing in green technology, through new support schemes and better charging regimes will be more profitable. In addition, we have allocated a lot of money – for example. Hordaland, when they are about to have new holiday offers on the market, has received a total of 270 million. to stimulate and facilitate this. As recently as a couple of days ago, I met an exciting environment that operates with drones, where there are already 500 people working on it and who have it as income, who say that Norway is one of the best countries to develop technology, because we have a code that allows us to test out new business models and new technologies. So in sum, a lot happens in areas beyond what oil and gas represent, while I have to stress that I believe it is also important to facilitate good oil and gas operations for many years to come. But we can't be as unilaterally dependent on it as a stayed under the previous government. That's why all of the other grips here are important, so we can use the engineering skills and the technology skills the oil has developed, to develop more legs to stand on. This is also about tax conditions, it is about ensuring that we retrain those who have jobs that are no longer needed, but where skills are needed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e865	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. There is no doubt that there is a huge difference between the climate recognition of the Progress Party and climate action in 2016 and what they stood for just a short time ago. It shows that it is necessary for us others to continue to push in climate policy. So the essence of the Paris Agreement is that we need not just to reduce, but to get out of the fossil economy, and what the International Monetary Fund points out is that we need to do this actively and systematically. It summarises the Greens' proposals for the planned closure of the oil industry over a 20-year period, which was just voted down in the Stortinget. One of the most important evidences that the oil industry is still far above its second investment in Norway is the enormous tax subsidies granted to this industry, which, as is well known, led to the company Talisman receiving 3.4 billion. kr paid by the State in the end-of-life reimbursement in order to settle after having disposed of 14 billion. kr on failed bet. Will the Council of State liquidate this kind of subsidy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e876	First of all, I would like to thank you for the opening rose. It's not the Progress Party that has made this policy, but it's very nice to be allowed to present it without a filter from a journalist, which makes us see that the Green Party sees that it's happening very well. That's good. The Paris Agreement is important. We're going to do that. At the same time, neither the Paris agreement nor any other prediction does mean that oil activities should be discontinued, but that we must ensure that the use of fossil energy sources takes place in a way that is sustainable and that we are able to clean emissions much better than today. In the case of the tax egym on the Norwegian base, the changes to which the representative Hansson refers were not made because more oil wells would then be drilled than would otherwise have been, but to ensure that it is not just Statoil and the large established ones who do. So the tax discount one here refers to, which is not a discount, would possibly happen to Statoil, who already has a carryable profit they could subtract it from. We want to have several actors that contribute to better resource use. Therefore, the scheme was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e885	If the learning curve of the Progress Party and the Council of State continues at the same rate as it has now achieved in the climate field, the Council of State will, in a short time, realize that the Paris Agreement implies that the 1.5 degree objective means the closure of the fossil economy. As far as subsidies are concerned, the question to the Council of State is: can we imagine that in a short time the Progress Party or the Government will make proposals that will make it possible for those who are betting and losing a lot of money to develop, for example. sea breeze, may be expected to receive a refund of 3,4 billion. kr from the country in the end-of-life reimbursement, which would lead to a completely different commitment within the renewable field than we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e892	Firstly, the Paris Agreement does not mean the liquidation of all oil and gas use worldwide. As long as you're going to use oil and gas, I think we're going to have to look at the global perspective of where you're extracting it in the best possible way. I believe that Norwegian oil and gas industries have shown that they operate better than most others. Again in the case of the tax system: The case of Talisman does not mean that if the scheme had ceased, the field would not have been tried. Then it would have been just that it was the big established ones who did it, because they could deduct their expenses from the profits they normally taxes on. With a tax of 78 pst. I'm going to get one of the numbers that you're referring to here. However, because the State wants more players to do exploration so one does not end up with a few major monopolists, one has introduced this system. For government finances, there is no net difference, but that means something to competition in the market. If the wind power industry had accepted 78 pst. taxes on their business, they could also receive the same benefit and deduct the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e903	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘The agreement on the income system of municipalities between the Right, the Advance Party and the Left states that by the end of 2016 a plan for the relocation of State jobs from Oslo is to be submitted. In several parts of the city, unemployment is higher than in the South, and many families will be affected if hundreds or thousands of jobs are moved far from Oslo. How does the Council of State feel that the relocation of jobs from Oslo has something to do with the income system, and will he involve local authorities in the work on the relocation plans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e912	I thank the representative for the question. The income system of municipalities ensures good services to residents throughout the country. This contributes to equivalent living conditions and residence in all parts of the country. Another important prerequisite for equivalent living conditions is access to jobs. State jobs play an important role here, not least because they contribute to strengthening national environments of competence. They also contribute to more dynamic and well-functioning labour markets, where employers have the opportunity to recruit competent workers and workers have good career prospects. Unemployment rates in different parts of the country may vary considerably over a relatively short period of time, including the following: due to fluctuations in economic cycle. The distribution of government jobs is not a short-term labour market measure but a long-term tool to strengthen strong national environments of competence. There is also a need for more profitable private jobs that can contribute to the State budget, not just jobs that live by the State budget. Government policies will facilitate growth and value creation throughout the country, including in the private sector. In the process of locating and, where appropriate, relocating state workplaces, it is important to set up good processes. This applies both to employees of the establishments and to the relevant local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e923	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the capital, there are also families and people who are happy about their job and depend on it, who have a strong connection to their community environment, their local environment, and who cannot only be scalded and selected by moving their workplaces here and there, often at a great distance from Oslo. We have seen very large costs for society and for people in previous movements, including: of the Veterinary College, where the number of billions increased and increased when moving to Ås. I know that the Right has also been critical of the earlier. As a result, the national meeting of the Workers’ Party decided not to carry out the extensive relocation of existing state establishments but to place new state activities outside Oslo in general. Does the Right and State Council agree with such a wording as the National Labour Party meeting provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e934	No, I don't agree with that. The right, together with the Progress Party and the Left, has agreed that we will create a plan for the creation and relocation of state jobs. I have myself moved out of one department of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, namely the Electoral Department. It's moved to Tønsberg. When I travel around, I meet representatives from all parties, including the Workers' Party, who are concerned that we need competence jobs everywhere in the country, especially in those regions that have good access to skilled labour, and not just in Oslo. Looking at developments in the period from 2005 to 2015, 8 200 state jobs have been created in Oslo. There's a growth of 22 pst, while in a state like Telemark there are 158 jobs, with 5.7 pst. growth. We have a responsibility for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e945	Yes, I agree, and that is why the Labour Party has decided that new state jobs should be distributed around the country. What I'm concerned about here is that in the past, right-wing has criticized horse trade – during the previous red-green period – where you connect areas that have little to do with each other, such as the income system and state jobs. I heard that the Council of State in the first part of its answer tried to justify the context. There are many other factors in social development that could be said to have a connection with the income system, so it will be quite complicated to enter into settlements about the income system in the future if everything else could be involved in that package. I think it was a good attempt, but a similar reasoning could be used in almost all areas of society to connect them to the income system. I would still say that it is a horse trade. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he thinks it is right to use Oslo as a balancing post in this way, and whether he will cooperate with the Municipality of Oslo on the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e954	I strongly reject the claims, both that they are about horse trading, and that Oslo is used as a balancing post. Let me remind you that the government, together with its collaborators, has made a rather painful transition to the state's income system. The state that came out best was Oslo. Oslo has generated an annual growth of about 670 million as a result of these changes. kr, while other counties elsewhere in the country have been reduced. This went against the Workers' Party. This was a strong growth for Oslo, in view of the increased expenditure incurred by Oslo, among others. for public transport. Then I value the commitment of the representative of Bøler to Oslo, to the city, and to those who live here. We provide both government and private jobs in Oslo, but we also have a responsibility for the rest of the country, and when we now carry out a municipal reform, it is also about decentralisation and ensuring that we have strong environments in different places in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e965	My question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘It is important to facilitate people living and working throughout Norway. This is also how we avoid unnecessary centralisation with the challenges it represents. Through the government’s centralisation instruments, cut regional development funds and policies in several other areas, Norway is now moving in the opposite direction. Will the Council of State take initiatives to reverse this negative trend and help people to work – and live – throughout the country in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e974	I can't begin by noting that it's interesting that these two questions follow each other, and both are from the Workers' Party. In the first question, I was accused of moving businesses and jobs out of Oslo, and in this question, it is the opposite sign. Talking about unnecessary centralization is an old issue. Many district municipalities would have suffered a decline in the population without immigration in the last ten years, i.e. also in the majority of the previous government period. 80 pst. the population lives in cities and agglomerations. Norway is urbanised. What we need to talk about is what challenges we face in the future, and how we solve them. The fall in the oil price gives an indication of the long-term challenges we face, both in terms of revenue and the industrial structure of the country. Demographic developments are another main challenge. We're getting older. There are more of the oldest older, especially in small and medium-sized cities. Competition for labour will increase. Norway is meeting this transition with contributions from resources across the country. We have both natural resources and competent people in all parts of the country. I agree that it is good that people can live and live throughout the country. It's an important value to take care of. Our reforms are not about changing Norway, but about Norway changing. The alternative to reforms is not that everything is going to be the same. Regression, increased disparities and increased centralisation may occur. So we don't cut our bets – we eat it. We're betting on roads and other infrastructure, which makes it more attractive to live and run the industry. We raise the quality of knowledge and focus more on research. We provide growth-enhancing tax relief. We target regional development funds against food and business-oriented actions, such as entrepreneurship and innovation. We are implementing structural reforms to equip the public sector to meet a future that will impose greater demands on both competence and efficient use of resources. This is how we make it possible for people to live and work throughout Norway. Our goal is good services where people live. The challenges vary, but we should be glad that large parts of North Norway and the hinterland are now experiencing positive developments. Early in 2017, I will promote a big message about sustainable cities and strong districts. We do that because we are concerned with the interdependence between different parts of the country, not the contradictions – how cities and districts can play one another well, how business adaptability is strengthened when people experience their place of residence as attractive and how coordinated land and transport planning helps to strengthen the adaptability of business while taking into account climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e987	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I wasn't completely unprepared for him to link Bohemia's question and mine, but in the Workers' Party we have had a good slogan for decades, and it is: 'By and land, hand in hand', and we believe that it must be possible to make good progress both in cities – also in large cities – and in our rural communities, and across Norway. True these structural reforms. Structural reforms do not necessarily support it with the possibility of being able to live throughout the country. I have not had the agenda today that we should lose Oslo for jobs. We have more than enough, in my own country, Uppland, to take care of the competence jobs we have in the district, because right now the tax haven has presented a proposal for a changed office structure, and according to the proposal presented, three out of five offices in Uppland will be dropped. [[President clubs]] It's dramatic, almost 70 workplaces. What is the State Council's comment on this? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e998	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1001	The tax bill’s proposal is the tax bill’s proposal – a proposal that has not been evaluated or taken into consideration by the government. It is quite natural that we now go into the proposals of the tax administration, and that is what the Minister of Finance will do with me as Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, where we will also see this in the context of the discussion we now have, in order to ensure jobs of competence throughout the country. Last week, the government provided for the transfer of State jobs to Hagebakken's home country, to the Municipality of Lillehammer, where a parking control is now to be established. The government chose to put this outside Oslo, and we chose in this context Lillehammer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1008	If this is implemented, it is about the loss of nearly 70 jobs in Uppland. I am pleased that the Council of State says that he will take part in this and suggest that consideration should be given to things other than those that the tax rate in isolation does. It's very important that it happens. I just want to remind you what's going on in agricultural policy. There are the big ones that are given priority, the small ones are down-priorities as actors, and overall it weakens the activities of the districts. The economy of municipalities that do not want to merge is being suffocated. Innovation Norway shall be centralised. Regional development funds have been substantially reduced. Even consumer offices are centralised. I could have mentioned a lot here. I ask again, as I started: what will the Council of State do to enable us to live and live in the whole country, and for us to have viable urban communities? It was the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1017	The most important thing we do is to facilitate private, profitable jobs, because with jobs, we also ensure housing. This has always been the case in Norway: good, safe jobs are needed to have a high-growth society. It is the government's most important job: to facilitate business, for entrepreneurs, for large and small enterprises. In addition, we are committed to ensuring skilled work places in different places in the country. One of the things we've done is to target the regional development funds, while at the same time strengthening the development of county roads. It is true for the representative of Hagebakken's own county that there has been a drop in regional development funds of 11 million. NOK, but there has been a reinforcement of the county roads by 31 million. kr. So Uppland County comes out better and can better facilitate nutrient development and ensure that we have growth power throughout the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1028	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Statens vägvesen’s action plan for 2014-2017, E6 Helgeland was involved, one of the projects being the start of the Brattåsen-Lien section in 2016/2017. [[SVV]] SVV is well in the process of planning and was scheduled to submit the project for tender in the autumn of 2016, starting in 2017. Now there is a great deal of uncertainty about this happening, as the plans for the new NTP 2018-2029 have only started in 2018 in a high framework and not until 2024 in a medium framework. Can the Council of State reassure everyone that the tender is scheduled to be launched in 2017?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1037	Building better roads across the country is important. The share of road investment in North Norway has doubled during the current government. The country part is important and, in particular, road infrastructure is important for economic development and for good housing. In Northern Ireland, a number of road sections will be invested. E6 Helgeland is one of them. We have already started on the E6 Helgeland North. E6 Helgeland South has been adopted in Stortinget, in November 2015, and the project therefore covers 80 km by road divided into nine sections between the Nord-Trøndelag border and the Korgen. Seven of those sections shall be covered by a so-called road development contract, where the same contractor is responsible for the development, maintenance and operation. That's the same thing you've done on the E6 Helgeland North. On the route Kappskarmo-Brattåsen and Brattåsen-Lien, it is proposed to use traditional forms of competition where operation and maintenance are not included. So here we're building on the north and getting the contracts out on the south. Road development contracts are supposed to be published first in Helgeland South, and the work here is planned to start in autumn 2016. The time of construction start on the route then, Kappskarmo–Brattåsen–Lien, is subject to further evaluation when we look at the contract offers we get and what progress is possible. I will come back to this in the 2017 state budget. The fact that the road network – Vegvesenet or Vegdirektoratet – has presented its proposals to the NTP is not leading to NTP. That's why the government is now traveling all over the country. Yesterday, I was at Toten. We've been to Tromsø recently. We have met with political leadership in the three northernmost states just a few weeks ago, just to get input into the wishes and priorities of the national transport plan that will apply from 2018 to 2029. There is one thing that will be presented to Stortinget, and where Stortinget will take its lead in how to continue working. But as I said, on the E6 Helgeland south, the contracts are on their way out, but one makes an order where one starts on road development contracts, and then one comes to the next. The exact dates for the different processes here are a little too early to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1048	It is true that Nordland has doubled investments and rates on the road, and that is thanks to the red-green transport plan. In the case of the south road package, which is now referred to, it is correct: the tenders should well be opened in these days with start-up to the harvest, and that is very good. However, the challenge is that Brattåsen–Lien is located in the middle of here, on a stretch that affects many. And just to repeat it, the stretch to which the Council of State referred, the North-Trundelag border and the Korgen, is about 137 km, and 14-16 pst. heavy traffic. In the period 2005 to 2014, there were 142 accidents involving personal injury on this route. Here, 9 people were killed, 16 were seriously injured and 180 were more likely to be injured, so there is no doubt that there is a great need to get ahead of this. It is precisely what has happened now, with this proposal for the NTP, that one has created uncertainty. Because the whole assumption was that you had to build this out continuously. Now the Council of State says that at least you have to wait for the budget. Does this mean that you have to wait, or can you continue planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1053	There is no doubt that the need for a better path in that region is also very great. In the summer of 2014, I drove the whole E6 together with people from Vegvesenet and other state agencies just to see how we should prioritise community money to build better roads, increase road safety and reduce transport costs. Then I register that the Workers' Party is so pleased with what the government does, that they themselves want to take responsibility and honor for it. It's very pleasant and a big compliment, but I remember that immediately after the government took power, we had to go in and increase the budgets on the road and the railways in order to increase the pace. While one at the time of the government change had planning funds of about 850 million. kr by road and rail, is budgeted in 2016 for nearly 3 billion. NOK or 3000 million. kr. That's three and a half more times. It shows some of the growth that has been. We are not going to create uncertainty, but we are going to make sure that we have as good progress as possible with the increased frameworks that have come under today's majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1062	There is no doubt that it was the red-greens who lifted the appropriations, and it is followed up. It was just to be lacking that you were not satisfied with it. So it's like creating uncertainty by not getting started the way it's supposed to be here. The point is that there has been no increase other than a cost increase on the Helgelands project. What has happened at all is that there has been a delay, and now you are adding up to a further delay. Because it's not only in the south it's a challenge, it's also a challenge in the north. When there was a tender opening there, there was no 450 million. NOK to complete the North Package, and the Road Package E6 Helgeland applies to the entire package even if it was divided into two treatments in Stortinget. So there's still a big uncertainty about whether the packages are going to be what you thought in the north, with the background that there's 450 million missing. kr, or if you can expect that there will be a completely different package that will eventually be the solution. There are at least things that create great uncertainty about the projects that have not started up yet in the north, and that are waiting. Then the question is, when will the Council clarify the 450 million?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1073	I note that a representative from a party who put in government and did not build very much on this stretch at all in its eight years, suddenly is very impatient and talks about a week from or to be a crisis for the region. Then one should go into his own history before one begins to criticize others. So there's now a road map of tens of miles in total that's being built. The contracts are in progress. The spade is in the earth many places, and people will notice the difference. In addition, we have increased maintenance in this region far beyond what has ever been the case before. We are now reducing the downturn on the road network not only in the Nordic countries, but across the country after many decades of growing downturn. So it's true that for Helgeland North, it's not that it hasn't been granted the money you've committed to, but that costs have increased. There is a certain difference between giving the impression that a not enough money has been allocated in relation to the plans, rather than pointing out that there has been a cost increase. There we spend a lot of time with the Road Service, because I am concerned that we should also reduce the cost of road construction, not only increase the costs and get the money to stretch less, like one too many years, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1086	‘Competitiveness in business depends on the capacity of enterprises to continue innovation and innovation. Good clusters that facilitate interaction between enterprises, knowledge environments, customers, users and international networks affect innovation. Oslo Cancer Cluster is such a cluster in the health industry, which has recently become part of a high-precision EU cooperation. How will the Council of State take initiatives to establish framework conditions adapted to the OCC and growth potential in the Norwegian health industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1093	As Minister of Industry, I am very pleased to note that Norway has strong professional and technological environments that also claim to be in the area of health. The government is engaged in industrial research and innovation to ensure a broader basis for value creation in Norway. The pharmaceutical industry is a global and knowledge-based industry, and although the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry is small in a global context, we have more exciting companies, and the environment around Oslo Cancer Cluster is very central. Health and care are an industrial policy area for the government, as outlined in the long-term plan for research and higher education and the Government's action plan for the follow-up to the Health care strategy21. The focus on knowledge and research is crucial for the development of the health industry. Since the accession, the government has greatly increased the appropriations for industrial research. A significant proportion of the resources for nutrient R & D go to the health field. Of the TaxFUNN's total portfolio, which was 5,819 projects, the total was 480 in the health field, and these amounts amounted to almost 2 billion. kr. The appropriations for health research in 2015 within the BIA amounted to 128 million. kr, i.e. 25 pst. There were a total of 54 innovation projects. Similarly, health projects represent a large proportion, within EARLY 2020. A number of health projects are also supported under the Innovation Norway Scheme for Public Research and Development Contracts. This will also strengthen the basis for new knowledge-based business, such as health and pharmaceutical development. It is important for Norway to create and maintain R & D environments that attract attractive partners from other countries. This applies not least in the field of health and pharmaceutical research. The general strengthening of public research efforts undertaken by the government helps to strengthen the environment around Oslo Cancer Cluster. This helps to provide the basis for the further development of medical treatment and related activities in the cancer field in Norway. I recently enjoyed visiting Oslo Cancer Cluster, and the breadth of activities is impressive, with innovative businesses and exciting research environments in beautiful and inspiring environments. Oslo Cancer Cluster has been included in the national cluster programme and has been a Norwegian Centre of Expertise since June 2007. They receive an annual aid of 5 million. kr through the programme. The new State aid law, by which Norway is obliged by EEA legislation, sets a limit of 10 years for aid for the provision of support to clusters of industry. This means that the aid will fall away in 2017. I have invited Oslo Cancer Cluster to a dialogue on further operations, and they also have the opportunity to apply for a number of other arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1114	Thanks for the answer so far. It is quite right that there are many who have visited them, there are many who have cheered on them, and there is good access to short-term project support. But when Trond Giske was Minister of Industry, he saw that NCE was not enough to build new strong clusters, so then GCE was introduced in environments that had global perspectives of value creation. For Norway, it is particularly important that we be able to strengthen ourselves where we are exposed to competition, and that is very much the case in the health industry. As far as I know, new GCEs aren't started, they didn't win in the first round, unfortunately, but that's exactly the kind of support they'd need, given that it takes so long to build up an industry that we all agree on has a great potential. The question is: Do you want to initiate something similar to GCE? We have three such clusters, but we need more, especially in the health industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1123	I'm glad we agree on this. Then I'll have to correct the representative a little bit. It was this government that established NCE in its time, and it was this government that established GCE in our time, and it is in our time GCEs have been awarded. So it's done in a professional and objective way, which we don't politically interfere with. I think we all agree on that. I know that Oslo Cancer Cluster has applied to become a GCE, and I assume they're applying this year as well. We don't know the fasite of that before the end of the month. But it is true that for the GCEs too, there is temporary facility support, but all companies will be able to apply for development projects, and schemes for this in both Innovation Norway and the Research Council are now heavily filled, so that there are many opportunities to raise funds to support clusters, which we fully agree on are very important in many different areas – including health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1130	Now I'm not going to bring this up, but in the case of GCE, it was as far as I know, Trond Giske who proposed it, while it was established after we changed the government. It is a pleasure to continue to give priority to that kind of support, but it has now come within an EU project, it is now run, so it is incredibly important that we be able to provide predictability for this industry. Developing medicinal products takes a long time, and there is a need for adapted support. Will the Minister of Industry also be able to see the specific needs of the health industry and then lift them up? And what are the most important features of the health industry, as the Minister of Industry sees it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1137	We don't have to continue that debate. I think it's in the Sundvolden statement, but we can come back to that. The important thing is that we got it established, and that we've got a new level that's global, and that really carries these things on. I also believe that what we see now, the development of cooperation clusters between them, is very important. We have also spent money on this, and additional money has now come from the revised budget, because we see that it is important. Health establishments report the importance of having schemes in the Research Council that contribute to development projects, as development takes time. They also point out that because it takes time, it is difficult to raise capital, and therefore both the seed fund we have established now – one of which is one in Bergen with great competence in health and medicine – and pressure grain schemes are important. So we know that in this area, too, access to venture capital is demanding, and that's what we've been trying to raise through the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1148	‘Statistical ownership is about our joint ownership of important natural resources, control of important infrastructure and ownership of companies that ensure value creation, industrial development and safe jobs. One of the few issues the government has presented to the Stortinget in business policy is ownership. There, Stortinget was asked to give a number of sales mandates. Fortunately, it was far from all support, but it was authorised to sell, among other things. Telenor and the Kongsberg Group. Will the government use these powers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1155	The government facilitates a diverse and valuable ownership of Norwegian businesses and wants to strengthen private ownership. Private ownership is the main rule in Norwegian business. State ownership shall be specifically justified. The central task of the state towards business is to facilitate high value creation through stable and good framework conditions. The government wants to reduce state ownership somewhat over time because it is particularly high in Norway. In particular, it will apply to companies where the State has no specific reasons for ownership. However, it may also be appropriate to reduce the country's ownership of other companies, given that it can be implemented within a framework that respects the country's objectives of ownership. The Government has the authority of the Stortinget to reduce the state’s ownership in whole or in part in Ambita, Baneservice, Entra, Mesta and Veterinary Medical Mission Centre. Furthermore, the Government has the power to reduce its ownership interest to 34 p.m. in Telenor. It is not true that the government is authorised to change the state’s ownership of the Kongsberg Group. Since the government joined, we've been selling the state's shares in Cermaq, and we've been subprivatizing Entra through a stock exchange listing. We have also completed a process aimed at selling Mesta, but the bids we received were lower than the values in the company, and I decided then that we should not sell. Changes in the ownership of the country shall be carried out in a manner which is professionally, commercially sound and which safeguards the values of the country. When assessing changes in country ownership, we take into account both market and company-specific circumstances. The government will not implement changes in its ownership or support transactions unless this is considered economically favourable to the country in the individual case. The government is open to reduce country ownership through different solutions, such as: the sale of its shares to industrial or financial operators, by listings or as part of an industrial solution. The government's ambition is to reduce state ownership somewhat over time, but we have, as I said when the ownership message was presented, not haste, we want to implement it in such a way that it is right for the state economically or industrially. Of course, I cannot comment on or possibly when we use the different sales authorisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1172	The size has been very concerned that the defence policy situation of the Kongsberg Group is being safeguarded, and that the regulations that can be applied to ensure these conditions need to be examined in greater detail. So the majority have really just given yellow light. It is good that the decision in Stortinget binds the Council of State to return to Stortinget with the matter of whether the government is in favour of selling the Kongsberg Group. But that situation also confirms that the impression that sat among people was that the government was only out to sell down – much more so than buying up. Changes in the community's ownership engage people very much, so you were very clear that no to the sale of Norway and to stop this was what you wanted to signal to the government. Does the Council see that there should have been more thorough assessments of the sales of several of those companies before the sales proposals were submitted to the Stortinget in the ownership notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1181	Then we agree on the starting point, namely that the government has no authority to sell itself into the Kongsberg Group. There was no goal for the government to get either. But it was a goal to have a mandate in case it would show up solutions that were industrially interesting for the Kongsberg Group, operating in a market that is in restructuring. That was in particular what we said from the state, that this authority was not an active authority that we would almost begin to work with – it was simply an opportunity if the company saw that exciting opportunities arose. Our starting point is that we're a big owner in the Kongsberg Group, and we're going to be a big owner in the Kongsberg Group, but there's enough 34 pst. in order to maintain the country's objectives of ownership. But as I said, we did not get that authority, and we do not intend to return to Stortinget and ask for that authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1188	The government made a request for power of sale in both Telenor and Kongsberg Group. At the hearings, both Telenor and the Kongsberg Group were very concerned that it was possible that it could be relevant both to sell down and to buy up. But buying up was not at all a matter for the government in that message. You had a power to buy up in Hydro, but you didn't want it, so you said it. The Council of State now says that you will not come back to Stortinget to ask for that authority when it comes to the sale of the Kongsberg Group. At least that's how I interpreted the answer. Then it's interesting to ask if it's at all being worked on the consequences of the safety law relating to the Kongsberg Group, or whether all of this has been put on ice every now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1195	Yeah, that's what's going on. I then informed them, and I now informed them. There is a work in progress related to this. As I said, there was no point in obtaining authorization from either Telenor or the Kongsberg Group to go down there every now and then. We tried to explain this despite the perceptions that spread. We have now had a power of sale in Telenor that has not been used, because we have not considered it correct. So this is something we consider from case to case. We don't have any haste, we're going to do this in a real way. But I have to remind you that what we need in this country, more than state ownership, there are more jobs in the private sector. We have a very high public ownership in Norway, higher than most of the countries we know, and from our point of view it has been right to signal that ownership we can take something down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1209	‘In the Question Time on 4 May, the Council of State said that early sinking would be a good response to predatory losses. The grazing right is a prerequisite for climate-friendly and sustainable agriculture throughout the country and is used by self-employed farmers for roughage for sheep and cattle. In Uppland, the population of yews is above the target number The size has determined. Only 7 out of 21 yrs have been taken out during the licensing period. What will the Council of State do to take out the remaining animals before the grazing season?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1216	This government manages predatory game in accordance with the paper game comparisons of 2004 and 2011. The 2011 agreement was unanimous and the two-part objective of the predatory game policy continued. This means that we have to have a low threshold for the harvesting of wild game in grazing priority areas, while in predatory priority areas, we have to have a high threshold for harvesting, and sheep production based on set-aside is to be adapted through prevention and conversion. The centre party is, as you know, most concerned with the part of the two-part objective of killing predatory game. Less attention is paid to the adaptations to be made by the grazing industry in line with the predatory game agreement in predatory areas. It is fully possible to graze in all parts of the country while making the necessary adjustments in predatory game priority areas, so that losses can decrease further. We know that the two of you are doing the most damage late in the grazing season. About half of the losses occur after 1 September. That means that a sinking a few days earlier than usual could significantly reduce the losses to yours. We should all agree that it is far better to implement good prevention measures than to pay compensation for damaged and dead sheep. Then I am aware that there may be challenges related to, among other things. shortness of feed on inland grazing areas in the event of early sinking. However, we offer good financial arrangements that cover extra costs. At the same time, we do not have coercive substances, and early sinking is a voluntary offer to animal owners. The stock of Jerves has been higher than the stock target in recent years. As I replied to the representative on 4 May this year, measures have been taken with the aim of more effective licensing. That project also includes Uppland. In addition, exceptional withdrawals have been carried out by one york in Uppland, in line with the main priority of the predatory game subject. So far this year, 36 young coals of yours have been registered in Norway. Six of these were decoupled on exceptional withdrawals. This year, we are, for the time being – and I stress for the time being – nine young coals below the national stock target for you. In Uppland there are so far this year registered four young coals of yours. This means that we are currently just on the regional stock target in Uppland.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1235	I think it is a bit alarming that the Council of State believes that the Central Party is most concerned with killing. What we're most concerned about is that it's going to be possible to live off sheep farming and grazing throughout the country, including Uppland. I want to show that on April 28th and May 15th, there was an application for withdrawals of you from the grazing priority area of Lom Sambetelag and Waågå Municipality. On 25 May, twenty days later, the Environment Directorate replied that they would reject the application because they consider the potential for damage to be low. It's quite incomprehensible to me, not least when we know that there are 14 Yves that have not been taken out during the licensing period, in Uppland. So the government council mentions that early sinking is a good tool. Does the Council of State think it unreasonable to expect that more effective licensing, withdrawal of remaining animals after the licence hunt and permission for damage-preventing killing of herds in pasture-prioritised areas should come before a conversation at all about the early sinking of sheep from a completely necessary set-aside?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1244	We have therefore put in place exceptional measures, and we should see the impact of these measures over some time before considering any further measures. So it's like we're based on the robberies deal. I think that's important. It's a predatory deal that all the parties put themselves behind. Following the robberies agreement, the Environment Directorate has the power to take decisions on how and how exceptional withdrawals are to be initiated in order to obtain as far as possible the remaining tariff quota. It assumes that there are indeed yews in the area in question, and that there are weather and traffic conditions for such withdrawals. The Directorate for the Environment is closely monitoring your registration in all areas. We make continuous assessments of the need for any exceptional withdrawals. Here I would like to reiterate that the wanted main priority of the regional surveying of the felling of a male herring in Finndalen was followed up by the Environment Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1253	Yes, no one is applying for damage prevention killing of yours if it's not yours in the area. That's to misunderstand, I mean. I can also refer to the Løten and Vang Beitelag. They applied for damages prevention permission in grazing priority area in Hedmark in February/March this year – as they did last year. Last year they got a response in July. This year they have not received an answer. They have also not received a response to a complaint they submitted last October, despite several reminders. The irritation is now so great that the Council of State has actually been notified of not having received answers from the Environment Directorate. What action will the Council of State take against the practices of the Environment Directorate with a totally unacceptable deadline for replying to applications for damage prevention consents? And how will the Council of State take out the remaining predators before the grazing season starts too fully?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1262	The overall size of the population agrees that we should have a management of large predators to be carried so that the populations are as close as possible to the stock targets. The Directorate-General for the Environment follows these registrations closely and, as I said, makes continuous assessments of any exceptional withdrawals. In the case of preventive measures in predatory game priority areas, it is also in line with the rapprochement that it is necessary to reduce and avert damage. Early sinking may be such a measure. The Directorate-General for the Environment can also give rise to exceptional killings, but at the same time one must stick to the stock target. So far, then, there are four juveniles of yerv in the priority area in Uppland this spring, and it's exactly the population target of the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1275	This question, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1278	‘Most in Norway agree that women and men should have equal opportunities. It's not like that today. Women face greater obstacles in their lives than men. Removing the obstacles requires political will and action. The cuts in part-time funding, the weakening of the work environment law and the removal of the main instruments of the Equality Act are some examples of government policies that further reduce women’s opportunities. Is this policy the result of government thinking that increasing equality in society is not a political task?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1285	I would like to thank Mr Huitfeldt for his question, which I am answering on behalf of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. Norway has come a long way in gender equality. At the same time – and despite decades of bets – we still have challenges. Women and men have equal rights, but not always equal opportunities. The government will strengthen equality and provide a better protection of discrimination for all. In relation to Huitfeldt's questions, I would like to raise three issues: The Government’s call for gender equality provides the basis for long-term and targeted work in five areas where there are still clear challenges: violence and abuse, growth and education, working life, health, business and entrepreneurship. Secondly, the proposal for a new and common law on equality and discrimination offers equal protection and, in some areas, better protection against gender discrimination than today's law on equality. Many have been concerned that today's law, as the previous government stood behind, is too vague, among other things. in the case of pregnancy discrimination. On this and on several other points, we propose to make the law clearer, so that it is easier to see what rights and obligations you have. Finally, on the changes to the Working Environment Act: these open up more opportunities for workers and employers to find solutions locally and to adapt working hours to family life for both women and men. The government also has a goal of opening up the labour market to more people, and temporary additions are now possible for up to 12 months. This could facilitate the entry into the labour market of groups facing difficulties of entry into the labour market today. I can assure the representative Huitfeldt that permanent employment is still the rule in Norwegian working life. Equality is a political task, but the public cannot adopt or create equality alone. An equal society is not something we've achieved once and for all. Equality is created in cooperation between the social partners, critical equality organisations, different professional environments, in the public vocabulary and by the fact that individuals and we collectively take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1304	I thank you for clarifying that equality is an important political task. Given that the Minister of Health is here today answering the question on behalf of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, I could imagine asking questions about involuntary part-time work among employees in the health and social sector. There are very many women, who, unlike jobs dominated by men, have a low job break, want a larger job break and have a working day that is such that they need to be called to get enough monthly pay. What is the prime strategy of the Minister of Health to reduce the proportion of involuntary part-time in his own sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1311	For the part of the sector for which I am directly responsible, the specialist health service, it is a clear mission to help reduce the use of both part-time and temporary jobs. Involuntary part-time is still a challenge. I also believe that part-time work that is not voluntary, that we have as many people working part-time in the sector, is a challenge for healthcare, because this is competence and work that we need in the years to come. That is why, in my opinion, it is a general objective to have more full-time jobs in healthcare. It will be beneficial for healthcare, but of course it is also an advantage for individuals in view of the possibility of earning pension points, income, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1316	Can the Minister of Health say something about what has been the concrete reduction in involuntary part-time in the specialist health service during his time as Minister of Health? After all, we introduced a law in the spring of 2013 – which, quite rightly, the Right voted against, but which they fortunately passed on – which clearly aimed at reducing the proportion of involuntary part-time, among others. in the health sector. What have the figures in this area been since the Minister of Health took over?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1321	I don't have those numbers in front of me right now, but I have a very clear impression that this is something that is working well and systematically in the specialist health service, and I'm concerned about and I also feel that many municipalities are taking this more and more seriously. I believe that the leaders in the sector see that it is not sustainable development to have as much part-time jobs in this service as one has had to do now, simply because we are going to face a huge recruitment challenge in the years to come. There is also a different perspective on this, it is that for patients and users it is a quality challenge that they face such a large flow among employees. Therefore, unlike the questioner, I believe that the changes made to the Working Environment Act are also important to improve the provision of services and to facilitate tours that are more adapted to both employees and, in particular, to the needs of users and patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1328	Question 11 is from the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Care Bent Höie. The President cannot see that Toppe is present, and we move on to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1335	‘Power medicine is a subject of rapid development and new treatments are introduced on an ongoing basis. Many of these are specialised and costly solutions that challenge the Community’s ability to prioritise. The pharmaceutical industry justifies high prices with high development costs for new medicines. How and with what instruments can the Council of State contribute to the anticipated financing of the important R & D work of Oslo Cancer Cluster, so as to avoid leaning on industry's solo players?'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1342	Future cancer treatment is continuously developed through research. Cancer is the subject of most research funding, with 433 million. kr or 20 pst. of all research resources in the field of health. The funds are published by the Research Council, the Regional Health Enterprises and the EU Framework Programme for Research, Horizon 2020. The investment in cancer research produces results in the form of new treatments that benefit the patient. Personalised medicine and immunotherapy are examples of areas highlighted by Oslo Cancer Cluster as a national priority in health research. Oslo Cancer Cluster facilitates cooperation between actors across the whole value chain – from universities and hospitals to technology transfer offices and business. In this way, they help to derive results from the investments made in cancer research. With the notification of medicines, which Stortinget dealt with in February, we have received a comprehensive national pharmaceutical policy. One of the objectives is to facilitate research and innovation, which is a new pharmaceutical policy objective. The notification contains several measures to increase the number and extent of clinical studies in all treatment methods. An increase in clinical studies could give more patients access to trial treatment, and it could provide a basis for nutrient development in Norway. I would like to highlight some relevant measures. The Research Council and the Health Regions provide funding for basic research, applied research and innovation. This year, a new clinical treatment research programme will also be established in the specialist healthcare service. It shall provide predictable funding for major national clinical studies to respond to the needs identified by patients, in the service, by policy makers and by researchers themselves. The programme will open up industrial cooperation, provided that the study meets the needs of the patient and the service, and that the study is anchored in health firms. The National Infrastructure for Clinical Studies — NorCRIN — and the VIRIL Advisory Office of the State Medicines Agency contribute to a faster and more professional conduct of clinical studies, in line with the needs of both the service and industry. The government has health and care as a business policy area. We see the importance of a strong business cluster of international formats in cancer in Norway. With regard to food policy instruments and the financing of cluster cooperation, I would like to refer to the Minister of Industry's answer to question 7 recently, as the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries coordinates the government's policy to facilitate innovation and industrial development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1357	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Now there was someone who whispered something to me into the hall that the revision contained something about Oslo Cancer Cluster, so I'm going to ask the Council of State about that. In addition, I would like to say something about the rather unfortunate and tabloid debate on cancer treatment, which very quickly refers to characteristics such as ‘hazard of a two-way and ‘class separation’. I think we're served with an informed debate on this if we're to be able to prioritise, something healthcare needs to do more in the future. So in addition to the fact that the Council of State has to answer the question of revision, if he has an overview of everything that was in the agreement with his cooperation parties, I would ask the Council of State how he will contribute to us better dealing with the debate on these expensive drugs in the public domain.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1362	As far as the revised budget is concerned, I must admit that I have not got any insight into all the details there yet, so unfortunately I cannot answer that. I want to believe that if there is anything about this, it will probably be under the responsibility of the Minister of Industry, and then it is not a text that I have looked at now, but I will soon find out. To the second question: I'm also concerned that this discussion is being taken in a good way, and that's one of the reasons why we're now very soon to present our own big message on health care priorities and values.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1369	It is good to hear that the Council of State was no more educated than the undersigned – it is good for the self-esteem if nothing else! We need to find out whether Oslo Cancer Cluster has been given some contributions through the agreement between the government parties and the other cooperation parties, gradually. One thing that's certain is that Oslo Cancer Cluster really helps us take a greater responsibility in Norway for developing drugs, and so hopefully affect the market situation we're in. I want to ask the Council of State: How soon does he see that we can progress in these good things we have had in Stortinget? I am thinking in particular of the proposal for more industrial cooperation related to biobanks and health records, for which the government parties have been very generously involved with the Workers' Party and a unanimous increase, and how to deal with how the instruments are located in different departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1374	At the end of the day, I think we have a good cooperation across the government on these issues. It also shows the documents presented by the government. For example, in the research strategy presented by the government, health research is promised, and in reality, health care21 and government action plan are the health components of the research strategy. So here's good cooperation. We also see that of the instruments that are now given priority in the field of innovation and innovation by the Minister of Industry, such as user-driven innovation, tax funds for new support for IFO and OFU contracts, etc., health is increasing and increasing. It shows that these instruments, which are now being launched in this area, are responding to health, but also that there is an incredible amount of excitement in the field of health. It was also highlighted by Innovation Norway yesterday. We're going to have a big debate on this tomorrow – an interpellation debate – so I hope we can get back to the rest of the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1379	We will now go back to question 11, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Health and Care. The President will ask the representatives to be present in the Chamber when the questions are to be asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1386	I'm sorry I wasn't precise. ‘The University Hospital of Haukeland is under heavy pressure. The pressure of the economy has led, according to trusted leaders, to such a low crew that it can be a threat to patient safety. The county doctor opened the case in the winter after they had been notified of their concern. On 24 May 2016, the Official Journal of Bergen announced that the offer of «Jordmoor in the Home» was closed in the summer, without adding up to several maternity rooms. Does the Council of State think that this is defenceful maternity care and a saving measure that newly-baked mothers have to accept?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1395	Barriers are a vulnerable period both for the woman and for her family, and they need extra attention. Barrier care is currently provided in cooperation between specialist health services and municipal health and care services. It includes hospitals, health centres and general medical and midwifery services. The target group is composed. Families have different cultural backgrounds, women who give birth are older than before, there may be weak networks around families, and many new families are without experience with infants. There are great expectations of being pregnant, of being born and of becoming a parent, and there is a great need for information. The national technical guideline ‘New life and safe maternity time’, which came in 2014, provides recommendations on the content of the maternity provision. It allows for different forms of organisation of the offer as long as quality is satisfactory and professional considerations are respected. Summer is a busy time at all maternity wards and imposes great demands on staff planning. Experience at the Haukeland Women’s Clinic has shown that a large part of the need for additional staff during the summer holidays can be met by self-employed people who are willing to take extra shifts. Having well-known colleagues working with provides stability and security in an extra busy everyday life. Work on establishing agreements with trade unions to ensure the same summer settlement as in previous years is now in the final phase. The offer of ‘Jordma in the Home’ – where women from the municipality of Bergen who want to return early are visited by a midwife at home – has been a popular alternative to staying in the maternity ward since 2014. But in order to ensure the supply of food this summer, Health Bergen has had to wind up «Jordmoor in the World» during this period. Instead, women are offered to stay in the maternity ward or to return early to the outpatient clinic. The outpatient capacity has been increased to take this into account. With regard to the manning situation at the Women's Clinic in general, I am aware that there has been a oversight case at the County of Hordaland. That is why we have to await the County Report. The pressure on the food departments during the summer period requires good planning and prioritisation in order to ensure a sound offer. It may be necessary to make temporary changes to the offer in some places. Health businesses must ensure that the provision of the maternity services continues to meet the requirements of quality and patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1410	Numbers from the Statistical Centre show that June, July and August are the months when most have children in Norway. I find it worrying that «Jordmare in the world» will be abolished without strengthening the provision of maternity care, except in outpatient settings. midwives have appeared on TV 2, 26 May, and our general concern about the summer supply, both the provision of food and maternity. They fear that low basic staff will be very challenging during the summer months, that one will not be able to cope with the one-to-one care in the guidelines, that there are not enough places for birth, that can be sent to other hospitals, and poor follow-up in maternity. When capacity on maternity is brought down on Haukeland without the involvement of the municipalities, is it a good cooperation, and is it satisfactory in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1419	It is quite right, as the representative says, that the number of births is increasing in the summer, and that is why Stortinget can take a considerable responsibility on the basis of the kindergarten intake. So in summer, those who work in maternity wards also want to take a summer vacation with their family. It creates great challenges. These are challenges that we must have confidence that local management will deal with them in cooperation with the trusted ones and make good plans for them. Then, as I also said in my answer, for example. to contribute to volunteering extra guards, to organise the service in another way in the summer and to ensure that those who work in the summer are also people who know the department, who are colleagues who are well-known, and do not base this on, for example. only on hired temporary workers, also with regard to quality. But I think we are well served that those assessments are made locally, where the responsibility for soundness lies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1426	In the Bergens newspaper of this week, we could read about a woman who was supposed to have planned imperial section at Haukeland, but who was told that she had to be born at Voss. It was against the patient's wishes. I'm not against people being born in Voss Hospital, but the foundation used by the health care unit in this case was the manning situation at the Women's Clinic in Haukeland. Then I understand that they are responding. This may apply to the person who has to give birth to Voss, who probably gets a good supply there, but it also applies to the others who are going to give birth to Haukeland, when it becomes so clear that the manning situation is a problem at a time when we know that there will be more births than otherwise in the year. Does the Council of State think that the example of this woman is an acceptable practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1431	As I said, we know that there will be more births in the summer, but also that the employees in the service want to take a summer vacation with their family at the time when others have a summer vacation. It gives rise to extra challenges, and it requires good planning. One of the measures that Health Bergen has taken is that planned cesarean section is transferred to Voss. That, I think, seems like a reasonable way to deal with the difficult situation. So this is going to be Caesar's section. It is also in line with the leaders of the National Health and Hospital Plan Storing that a greater proportion of surgery and planned activity can be transferred to hospitals nearby to build up the offer there. It is, of course, desirable that patients have the opportunity to get an offer at their local hospital. It's in the bottom. But it's also that in difficult times you have to be able to make reasonable adjustments. Here I believe that a reasonable balance has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1440	We're going to go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1447	‘Few things, if anything, are more important for a society than protecting their children. Nevertheless, many children live with daily physical, mental and sexual abuse. The working party has earmarked 60 million. kr to increased police investigation capacity in the budget of the year. Our government introduced Barneshus in Norway, and we were in front of the Barneshus Act within 14 days. Now it's almost 3 years since the Council of State took over responsibility for these children. The requirements of the law are still not met. When will the Council of State require the police to comply with the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1454	Let me first thank the representative Henriksen for addressing an important issue, and also for the commitment of the representative Henriksen to this case portfolio, and not least the children affected by both violence and sexual abuse. But I want, just for the sake of the minutes, to make some clarifications of the premises that lie in the question. The Labour Party's draft budget is not a real strengthening of the police; it is a designation within the police's current framework. This means that it is difficult to identify whether it would actually have any practical significance. I just want to mention it. In addition, it says that the Workers' Party went in front of the law on a 14-day deadline for questioning. It's a law that's now changed. Now, on a proposal from the government, Stortinget has implemented an interrogation reform which means that one has a completely different interrogation model than the Workers' Party fought for. Now there are three temptations. It is a week's time limit for the acute cases, a two-week period for the other cases and a three-week period if it is best for the child to have a slightly longer period than the first two. The status at the government change after eight years with the Workers' Party in the government was that there was a lot of positive, but there was also a lot that had not happened. Then there was only a 14-day deadline for sexual assault, not for both. There was an average waiting time for children of 42 days in 2013 for sexual assault. For those who were subjected to violence, there was an average waiting time of 60 days. Now the latest figures from April show that the average waiting time for those who have been sexually assaulted is 19 days. The average for all cases is 22 days. So it's also that you have to measure what a government is doing in an area, have results or not. One of the most important measurement parameters here is whether you get an increase in the number of notifications. Since 2013, we have had an increase of about 2,242 cases – from around 2 650 cases in 2013 to approx. 4,890 things. So it's been a successful and really successful story, what we've seen in the last three years, and that's very good. In addition, children's homes in 2016 have increased by 88 million. NOK, revised included, and it is almost a double from 2013, if I do not remember errors. Then many major changes have been made. I've been into some of them. In addition, I have been very concerned that throughout the management structure – the Council of State, the police director, the chief of police and the prosecutors – we focus on ensuring that we come within the deadlines set by the law. Last time I took this up at the Public Prosecutor's Meeting last week on Thursday, with all the prosecutors and police officers present, and we demand a thorough plan for how to get within the law's deadline. But it's actually made a huge effort for the children's best here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1469	I fully agree with the Minister of Justice that a good job is being done and an effort is being made by many employees, but we are still not in the target, and we have to be impatient after moving on. The debureaucratic and efficiencies of the police, which the Council of State has put in place, have neither led to fewer bureaucrats nor to more efficiency, as far as I can see. In three years, these cuts have resulted in a 260-million police strike. kr, which means that the year's budget is approx. 260 million. kr less than it would have been without these cuts. And it's about priorities, because at the same time it's given 21 billion. In terms of tax cuts, there is a record withdrawal of oil money without any reflection in the budgets, nor in measures that benefit these children. As a curiosity, it can be mentioned that a project at the University of Women in Northern Ireland to increase the competence for violence has been rejected an application of NOK 600 000. What new measures will the Council of State take to move forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1478	The commitment in this matter is very good, but I think it is a bit fooled by a story that is under any criticism. Firstly, efficiency cuts are not imposed by the Council of State, there is something that the government has imposed on all public enterprises, and this, of course, also applies to the establishments in the justice sector. What the representative forgets to say is that at the same time, we've strengthened the police by 3 billion. kr. So we've had a 3 billion increase in the police budget. kr, we have allocated money to 1,054 new police officers, and there are over 100 more police lawyers on the payrolls now than it was at the government change. So there's been a dramatic bet that's going to benefit these kids, and we're seeing results from that bet. We've also changed the whole way the Police Directorate is working on these issues. There's been a great job in the police to reverse this after a very strong political pressure, and I follow this up with the police director every month, when we have our regular meetings, to make sure that it's necessary progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1487	I hear that the commitment is great, and it delights me. I know that the Minister of Justice has also been very committed to this. The cuts we are now seeing – this is what is called the red tape cut, which at least has not led to fewer bureaucrats, and the efficiency cut, which we have no measurable figure size to deal with to see if it works – we know we're about equivalent. 300 posts. Then it's, I think, a little too easy to point out to the big bag posts and also include all these bag posts and the big frame budget in the justice sector and say that it benefits the kids. These children are still in line, there are still too many deadlines, and that is what is worrying. Then I believe that there are opportunities for this government to do other budget priorities than what they have done. It is quite right, as the Council of State said, that we have not provided funds, but we have earmarked them, and we think that would have more effect than the Minister of Justice has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1496	There will be no more employees of designating funds; it will be the same employees. Since the government change, there are almost 1,500 employees in the Norwegian police force, so it is very backwards to use the figures in the way that the representative Henriksen does. As far as Mr Henriksen himself knows very well. The government has prioritised this area very strongly, not least we see it in the results that the government delivers in this area. But we're not on target. I fully agree that it is not acceptable that we do not keep the deadlines in the cases where we are going to keep the deadlines. This is why a number of measures have been put in place to analyse resource needs, resource use, case flows, follow-up of individual cases and sharing best practice – so we are constantly working on improvements. If there's one area the government has really invested in, it's this. And we see the results. We also see that we get more reviews, and that's very, very important for the credibility of the police and the whole legal community in this particular field, not least because it's so important for the children affected by this. I'm very pleased with the commitment to the questioner, but I think we have to deal a little bit more with the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1509	‘It is an important principle that education in Norway is free of charge and that young people should have an equal offer regardless of income. In recent years, the number of students in private secondary schools has increased and more and more people pay for professional homework. Many parents cannot afford to pay for this. Governments have opened up several private schools and more private education during this period. What concrete action will the Council of State take to stop this development and to ensure that all children really have equal opportunities for good education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1516	The vast majority of students in Norway attend public schools. Today it's about 3 pst. by primary school students and 7 pst. by high school students attending private schools — fresh schools, which the law calls them when they receive public support. In the future too, the vast majority of Norwegian students will go to public schools, and the government's main job is to strengthen public schools. The questioner says that there have been more students in private schools in recent years. I just want to stress that there has been an increase also under the previous government in those years. While public school is the most important thing, because there are most students going, we're concerned that you should have an opportunity to choose between different types of schools. The new law on free schooling, which came into force about a year ago, has as its starting point that more publicly funded fresh schools can contribute to increasing diversity, development and learning between schools. We believe that as many private actors as possible should be approved in the health care sector with public support, precisely because it also provides low school fees and legal requirements for content and quality. The limitations on the admission of students to school leave, as a result of the law on early school leave, contribute to giving real opportunities to choose a higher school. The new law on free schooling does not in any way imply any release. The approval system is discretionary and there is no right to approval. But back to the public school where the vast majority of students go and go: my clear starting point is that all students, regardless of background and economics, will receive high-quality public school education. In order for it to be a reality, we have to work constantly to make the school better. The base wall is strong. Very much is very good, but we can and must get even better. We're betting, for example. high on the continuing training of teachers, on their own real-life strategy to raise mathematics and science, on language courses, i.e. enhanced literacy training, better implementation programmes to reduce non-response, early efforts and, together with our partners, more teachers also at first and fourth stages. There's just a few examples. I believe that this kind of strengthening of public school is important in order not to create increased demand for private teachers for homework, etc. At the same time, the development of the labour market is a challenge, especially if it indicates that several parents feel that they have to pay for additional private services because they do not think the school is good enough, or to get the education that children need. It is also a paradox that the market is increasing most in Oslo. We don't have accurate knowledge of this, but maybe it does, while the Oslo School on most of the measurement parameters we have comes out as one of the best in the country. We can't ban private teachers, so my answer will be that we have to keep working to make the public school even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1531	I notice that the Minister of Knowledge, on the one hand, is predicating an education system that should have equal opportunities for all, while on the other hand he cannot give a concrete answer as to how he will stop the development that reproduces social differences from generation to generation. It is true that, on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, the private lesson market has increased considerably, with more than 100 new private teacher establishments every year since 2013. And this has happened without the minister, who is actually responsible for the school, doing so much more than being concerned about this development. So my question is, when will the Minister of Knowledge stop worrying about the development of private homework and bring concrete measures that actually ensure educational opportunities for everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1540	Just because we do more than worry, the measures I mentioned are the most important. So, we don't solve the problem of private homework by going after private homework providers. If the Workers' Party believes that the solution is to ban people from buying private homework, or to create that type of company, they would have to believe it – I haven't heard it before, but if they believe it, it's okay. I don't think that's the solution. The solution is, of course, to do what we know works to strengthen those students who need school the most: start-up training, increased effort on further education, professional replenishment, even greater attention around — and more demands on — that the students who follow are caught up early in school and receive extra follow-up. That, I believe, is the most important measures. If it is the case that the Workers' Party has concrete proposals on how to do something with a private market for homework, then I would like to hear them – I have not heard them now – but I believe that those measures to strengthen the school are the most important ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1547	The Minister of Knowledge was also in his reply to the law on free school. It is a well-known position of both the Minister and the Government Party on the Right – and has been highlighted on several occasions – that competition is the most important measure to improve public schools. It is true that the introduction of the new law on free schooling was one of the first measures launched by the government and the Minister of Knowledge after the 2013 enlargement. Does the Minister of Knowledge honestly believe that competition between public and private schools is actually the most important means of improving public schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1554	No, I don't mean that. I never meant that, and I don't think I've ever said that it's the most important measure to make public school better. No! No! When the Right went to the elections, it wasn't that we went to the elections that the biggest promise in the school was competition between the schools. No, we said that the most important measure to make public school better is to upgrade the knowledge and quality of school, for example. through a large educational commitment, by increasing the commitment to continuing training, that one must have clear requirements for the students, and ensure that the students who are following follow-up are followed up. And then there's a discussion: can it also be that you have diversity in public school Norway, can contribute to some new ideas and also be healthy? Yeah, I think so. At least I don't think the public school hurts because you also have the opportunity to create post-school alternatives. As I know, neither does the Workers' Party believe it, all the time there was a strong growth in the number of high school students even during the red-green period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1565	‘In the Question Time on 16 March 2016, the Prime Minister made it clear that regionalisation of universal service was a very important part of the government’s fisheries policy. On 18 May 2016, the Government announced its intention to enforce a universal service obligation in Mehamn, in connection with the discussion on Findus establishment there. This is very happy news, but is contrary to the government statement and the Prime Minister's information in the Question Time. What is the government’s fisheries policy now, and is regionalisation rejected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1572	The state of the government today is the decision made by the Stortinget on 5 April. That decision is pending before the Commission as, inter alia, I am going to review all the obligations, have delivered my assessment to me and I am going to Stortinget. The Government proposed several fisheries policy measures in the Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Among other things, we proposed the regionalisation of universal service, the lifting of processing obligations and the setting up of a Commission to assess the costs in relation to the obligation of activity, both for ships, industry and communities. On 5 April this was discussed in Stortinget, and the Stortinget then asked the government to set up a commission with a mandate to assess all of this. The government is now, of course, working on the follow-up to the Storting decision and has therefore appointed an expert group to assess the whole obligation system. The mandate of the Grand Duchy mandates the Group to assess both the constraints, the liberalisation of obligations and other models with a view to fulfilling its various obligations. This involves describing several options, including government proposals in the maritime food communication, and assessing both the economic, social and legal aspects. These are orders from Stortinget, adopted on 5 April. In accordance with what the Stortinget has said, I will come back to Stortinget during this year. But government policy on universal service and what it wants is firm. I still think that a regionalisation of universal service would have given better and stronger access to raw materials. What became the focus now was that Findus wanted to establish himself in Mehamn, and the signals from Findus were that they had to have some guarantees of access to raw materials, and in today's legislation it is that three trawlers have a duty to deliver almost 5,000 tonnes to Mehamn. That's what we've done, and that's what Stortinget has said to do until there's an attitude or an assessment from this commission, with which I'm going to come back to Stortinget. So the government's policy is firm, but is put on hold until the Storting has got its wish and its decisions fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1587	What makes this case a little special is that this would be completely impossible if the government had been able to make an impact on its policy. One could not travel to Alta and invited spokespersons and political leaders in Mehamn to come to visit and tell them to now enforce universal service so that it could be possible to set up a Findus company there. That's what makes this thing a little special. Now I actually have two questions, so the minister can choose, or possibly answer both: how would the government have solved this crowd if one hadn't been afraid of the Storting when it was universal? The second is, what kind of action will the Minister take if he is to enforce this universality obligation, so that he is sure that fish will be delivered in Mehamn, so that he can establish Findus, which the Secretary of State of the Minister has promised on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1596	Government proposal in Message. For St. 10 was a regionalisation of universal service. So the government proposed to put down a commission to assess the obligation of activity. So regardless of what decision was taken on April 5th in Stortinget, these 4,700 tons had been in Mehamn. What you're dependent on is having an industry there that accepts this raw material. I record that those who have these obligations and this obligation of activity, even after focusing on this, have said that these obligations stand by them. But then it's pricing that's now the challenge. Here was the previous government with SV and the Workers' Party that made a price determination in 2010, which makes it more expensive to accept the raw material. In addition, previous governments have made regulations that have cost the delivery to industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1601	These duties are closely linked. But since the Minister did not directly answer any of the two passports sent by this representative, I would like to ask a question – I really hope the Minister will answer this: how will the Minister ensure that fish come to Mehamn in line with his government secretary in Alta on behalf of the government? How should it be ensured? Will there be sanctions? Will there be action? Will that be fines? How will the Minister ensure that he enforces their duties here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1606	I can't guarantee anything, but I can, for example, reverse the regulations as amended by the red-green government in 2010. I can change the regulation that makes it expensive to deliver the raw material where the obligation lies, which the former governments have adopted, but it has therefore the Stortinget and SV told me by decision of 5 April that I am not allowed to do so. I have to wait until this commission comes with its setting. Right now, it is the decision to raise capital – SV and the Workers' Party – that prevents me from using the opportunities that exist for a greater chance of industrial establishment in Mehamn. But if the SV and the Workers' Party signal to me that the regulations of 2010 and previous regulations make it expensive for industry to establish itself, because the raw material becomes too expensive, then I have to be able to assess it, but then there has to be an initiative from the Stortinget about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1615	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Our largest and most important natural resources are found in coastal and marine areas. These are resources we need to ensure that the community can be in control in the future as well. The ones that brought us secure ownership of the hydropower, and the same was done with the petroleum resources. We don't have to put ourselves in a situation where we no longer have mastery of our fishing resources. The Government Platform provides for permanent fishing quotas. Is this something the Council of State plans to follow up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1624	First, I must be allowed to say that the question, the topic raised by the representative Hegø, is very important. I don't think there's any political disagreement either that we should guarantee ownership of our resources. It's important in every context. Let me also say in the wake of it — and I think we also agree politically — that the fishing resources belong to the community, the community of Norway. This is indisputably fixed in the Marine Resource Act, and it could easily be formulated as such, it's not more difficult, that the fish that swims around the sea is not in private ownership, and that's the starting point I think we all have. On the other hand, as at present, private operators may be entitled to operate the acquisition of these Community resources through the granting of different authorisations and concessions. How much each operator can fish is determined by the annual quota determinations. Modern fishing vessel operations require substantial investment. It is therefore essential that the framework conditions for the operation of fishing vessels are both predictable and long-term. I hope that in Stortinget we can make decisions that are long-term and predictable for the whole industry. One side of this debate is the question of duration — that is, how I interpret the questioner — in the structural quota schemes. In the Volstad case, the Supreme Court concluded that the reintroduction by the Stoltenberg II Government of a predetermined time limit for the number of years for which a structural quota can be allocated was not contrary to the Basic Law’s prohibition to give a law retroactive effect. Well, at least that's what it's all about. The government's primary view of it with a time limit is laid down in the Sunvolden platform. There the government says that ‘structured allowances shall be open-ended’. This would equate the allocation of structural allowances with the allocation of basic allowances, i.e. the quota allocated by virtue of the granting of an authorisation to own fishing vessels and operate them in certain fisheries. But now it's like the Eiden committee is sitting and working, and they're probably done during this year. Then we'll get back to the big questions when there's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1637	I understand your answer so that if you have multiples in Stortinget for it when the Eidenen selection presents the setting, the government wants to introduce eternal allowances. To that, I only have one thing to say: the Labour Party is going to reverse it as soon as we get into government. This government has stoned stones and made changes away from what was the starting point of my question — the Community resources belonging to the Norwegian people, changes that bring fish quotas together on fewer and fewer hands. When will the Minister listen to the Norwegian people and take action to stop the gathering of quotas on ever fewer hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1644	I think it is very interesting that the representative Heggø in a number of contexts has told the Council of State that everything is now frozen, now one is not going to make any decisions – one is not going to make any decisions now. It is quite possible that the representative Heggø and the Labour Party have an agenda where you do not want to take those decisions now, because you want to take them yourself when you might have to go back to government. It's completely possible. So now there is a reduced quota range, but I hear that the Workers' Party has made its decisions in advance of what this quota selection had to do with. It is then that the Labour Party and the representative Heggø believe that all other political parties and politicians should not do anything until the quota committee has been set up, but that the Labour Party can do so. That's interesting in itself. But I've registered that there's a lot of political disagreement here too, but I want to wait for the quota committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1651	For the Workers' Party, it has always been important to establish that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people together and are to help secure the employment and settlement of our coastal communities. We didn't think about that. And it is not we in the Workers' Party who have created uncertainty about the participation laws. It is not we in the Workers' Party who have created uncertainty about eternal quotas. Will Sandberg join the Labour Party and listen to the Norwegian people, secure Community control of fishing resources and secure employment and value creation along the whole coast when we get the option from the Eidesen selection? It is possible to set certain conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1660	In my first answer, I concluded that the fishing resources belong to the community in Norway, that this is indisputably enshrined in the Marine Resource Act, and that the fish that swims in the sea are not privately owned. You can't be more obvious. But I understand that the Workers' Party has its own confusion internally, because there are different signals to get from the Workers' Party. Today, I have had a large, large meeting with seven-eight rapporteurs from the Labour Party, and there was a different view there when it came to the law of participants, quota, structuring, etc. But, as I say, these major political issues have said to the Labour Party and the Stortinget that I should wait until the Eiden Committee comes up with its position, and I intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1671	As the President said, my question goes to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs: ‘The strength of Norwegian employment has been that we have clear employment with clear working hours and wages. The development of so-called non-remunerated fixed-term employment between assignments challenges this. Int. 368 S. decided unanimously that the law's before-worker supports that the intention of the law for permanent employment is not met by these forms of contract. [[2014-2015]] What has the Council of State done to follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1680	In June 2015, the Stortinget considered a proposal from the Centre to prohibit contracts for ‘fixed-rate non-guaranteed employees’. The proposal did not receive a majority, but a joint committee pointed to challenging developments and shared the concerns of the proposers for the development of parts of the labour market with an increasing tendency for the use of such forms of contract. In its statement, the majority of the State Councils of the Committee contributed to a common understanding of how the legislation should be interpreted and to assess these issues together with the social partners. In the Labour Market Policy Council on 22 September 2015, the then Council of State, Eriksson, started a dialogue with the social partners on the development of the use of different forms of social relations. This was followed up by a letter to the parties, including on the dissemination of the contract type ‘fixed non-guaranteed employee’ and any need for clarification of ‘fixed employment’ in the Working Environment Act. On 19 November 2015, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs held a technical seminar on social relations with the parties, researchers and agencies. There was a central theme of permanent employment without a guarantee. There has also been a political meeting on the subject, by February this year at the latest. Dialogue with the parties has shown that there are different views on the form of the contract, both in fact and in law. The employee side, in particular the LO, has highlighted that the form of the contract does not involve security of work and income, while the consideration of flexibility is often highlighted by the employer. The process has also shown that there is still a need for more knowledge, including: on the spread of contract forms in different industries. I believe that there is no obvious answer in this case, and the different views are some of the reasons why it is important to follow closely the development of forms of employment in the future. I also point out that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has launched a multi-annual research project to provide increased knowledge of different forms of association in the labour market. In particular, fixed employment, temporary employment, rental and works prices, and their interaction, are to be followed over time. In addition, there is a strong technological shift in working life that also affects the organisation of work, for example: the divisional economy. The Ministry of Finance has set up a public body that investigates aspects of this, including its impact on the labour market. The various issues surrounding both the manning industry and the forms of association in the labour market need to be considered in the context. It is important to take into account the safety of individual workers for work and income, while at the same time ensuring the necessary flexibility. We have close contact with the parties and follow developments closely in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1693	The background to the comment that I referred to was the treatment of Prop. 74 L for 2011–2012, where it was said: ‘Without adequate guarantees and predictability in terms of access to employment, permanent employment in the temporary agency will in reality mean no more than temporary employment.’ So that's how the Storting has been clear. So when the Council of State says that there's something unclear about how to perceive the law, the Storting disagrees with that. That's why I repeat my question, because we see, among other things, to say it directly, that the NHO Service prints on its pages a recipe for how to call people permanently employed, but without paying wages between assignments. It is, in our opinion, a very undermining of the seriousness of Norwegian working life, and I would like to ask, does the Council of State agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1703	First of all, I would like to say that there is a cross-political agreement that permanent employment should be the general rule of Norwegian working life, and that we work together for a serious and orderly working life. However, there are differing views on the legality of the ‘permanent non-guaranteed employee’ form of employment, and there are different views between the parties and how this should be handled. I am concerned that the parties can make recordings and agree on how to perceive this. I am concerned that we are not now rigging a law that actually leads to more temporary employment, because the employer's side feels the risk of permanent employment too great. But we have this issue high on the agenda through the processes we have with the parties, through the research project we have set up with Fafo, where we follow this closely, because there is agreement that fixed employment should be the main emphasis. At the same time, we must also ensure the necessary flexibility in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1708	It is that fixed employment should be the general rule. There is a grievance that is no longer covered, because the government has unfortunately got the bulk of the population to open up in order to be able to hire people temporarily without it being in a temporary job – but that was not the question at the moment. I am aware that there is disagreement between the parties about the interpretation of the permanent employment law without pay between assignments. But the Stortinget has had a clear political intention with its decision, and I am not asking whether the Council of State can inform me that the parties disagree. I'm asking about the views of the Council of State. Does the Council agree that fixed-term employment without pay between assignments is not in line with the intention of the Working Environment Act on Cleared Working Time and Pay Conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1715	The Working Environment Act provides for permanent employment and for the use of temporary employment. There is no definition of pay between assignments, but there is a definition of fixed-term employment and the use of temporary employment. Clearly, there must be flexibility in working life today. Temporary employment is necessary. At the same time, we're concerned that there should be fixed employment that is the main gravity. We are committed to having a dialogue with the parties, discussing with them how to address the challenges that the representative addresses. There is no doubt that there are challenges where you don't have pay between assignments, but it's not clear how to solve that problem. That is why we are also engaged in processes with the parties, follow developments closely and take the necessary steps without creating a law that may lead to increased use of temporary employment because the employer feels that the risk of fixed employment is too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1726	My question to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs is: ‘In the social security settlement 2015 and the government budget 2016, the government announced a review of the regulatory principles for current pensions well in advance of the settlement in 2016, in order to avoid a decrease in the purchasing power of pensioners for several consecutive years, while employees are increasing. In RNB 2016, Stortinget is only informed that the rules are unchanged and that the social security schemes are no longer going to Stortinget. What is the government’s justification that the Storting should no longer be involved in the income determination of more than 1 million inhabitants?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1735	There are actually two different issues – at least – in the representative’s questions, and I have to answer them both. The current rules for the regulation of pensions are laid down by the Stortinget through broad pension settlements. By law, the size has laid down clear rules on the regulation of pensions. The social security settlement of the year has been fully implemented in line with the rules adopted by the Stortinget. Current regulation ensures predictability of pensioners by linking pension developments with wage developments. It also contributes to ensuring that the cost of pensions is proportionate to the carrying capacity of employees. As regards the review of the regulatory principles, which was announced in the context of the social security settlement last year, it was agreed that the review would be ready in good time before the social security settlement in 2016. In line with this, the government's review and conclusion were thoroughly reviewed in the meeting with representatives of all the parties at Stortinget at the Prime Minister's office on 15 March this year. Pensioners', disabled people's and employees' organisations were briefed accordingly at their meeting on 18 April this year. Furthermore, the government has explained the review of the regulatory principles in the context of the revised national budget and has given reasons for its conclusion that the current rules – as adopted by the Stortinget on the regulation of pensions – should be maintained. I therefore believe that the Stortinget has received good and thorough information about the government's review and conclusion. As the Storting has established clear, predictable rules for the regulation of pensions, it is possible to take into account pension expenditure in the Ministry of Labour's budget already in the State budget. When examining the 2016 government budget last year, a change in the budgetary implementation of the social security balance was adopted. This is a purely technical and practical change, without any real significance to the social security system itself. The estimated impact of the current year’s G-regulation was budgeted for relevant items in the Ministry of Labour’s budget, as opposed to previous budgeting practices of Chapter 2309 Random expenditure under the Ministry of Finance. Since the funds had already been allocated to the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it was not necessary to promote a separate proposal in the context of the year’s social security settlement in order to move the funds from one budget line to another. Other relevant information and background material on regulation, performance details, tax rules for pensioners, the minutes of the discussions, etc., have been provided in connection with the State budget for the autumn. Otherwise, I can show that the issue of Storting's handling of social security has also been promoted – as the representative knows – as a matter of its own, and it will be dealt with in the Stortinget for the next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1752	Thanks for the answer. I notice that the government therefore believes that one of the budget's largest expenditure items and living conditions for one million people is not important enough for the Storting, even though the pensions go down for the second consecutive year. Nor this year has it been assessed to use the exception in the pension agreement on ‘special circumstances’. In the RNB, the government says on the contrary that tax cuts of 2.2 billion. kr, reduced abbreviation of SEK 2,7 billion. NOK for retirement couples and SEK 82 million. kr to the same minimum pensioners gives positive purchasing power development in the years 2015-2016 and 2017. Neither the government's proposal for a government budget nor the majority party's budgetary settlement in Stortinget shows that increasing pensions and tax cuts to some pensioners would affect the regulation of current pensions for all, but this has now happened. How do these pension and tax changes turn out according to income and civil status for the different pension groups, and what assessments has the government made of these distribution effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1759	‘Specificities’ refers to something other than this. And that this won't be important enough? Well, to the most extent. This is so important that we believe it should be dealt with together with the budget, and it is not that the money should not be transferred from the ‘different item’ to the Ministry of Labour budget this year, is some change in how to deal with it. The difference between now and before is that you don't have to move the money from one post to another, because you grant it directly. And when you deal with it in the budget, you can also give priority to other issues that are important to pensioners. This government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has, among other things, In addition to the economy of the minimum pensioners, the economy of cohabitants and spouses has been significantly strengthened, and so we are doing so in the budget. As regards the income development of pensioners, I can refer to an excellent report under the Employment and Pension Policy Council. It was published yesterday and shows a formidable trend in the income of pensioners in recent years. It is recommended reading for anyone interested.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1766	The question concerned the distribution effects, but enough about it. The budget has the wrong timing in relation to social security, and I want to refer to the budget hearing last year, the budget for 2016. Then the Pensionist League warned against the new budgetary practice. In the budgetary configuration, the Government Parties and the Left note that a new round of budgetary rounds should not affect the implementation of social security schemes, and then it turns out that the implementation of social security schemes, despite the majority's assurances, was modified at a very substantial point. It no longer comes to the Storting in the same way as before. It is common practice that government party notes are checked out with the relevant government council. Does that mean that this insurance from the majority parties got through by mistake, or does the government and the population group have different views on this matter, or is it because the government will prevent the Progress Party from once again running double games about pensions in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1773	Here's so many premises in the question that I almost don't know where to start. First of all, we see that the income development of pensioners has been good. We see that the purchasing power has now fallen because the paychecks have also decreased, but the pensioners' economy has improved significantly, not least as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, because of the tax policy, because of the increase in the basic amount of married and cohabited persons and the increase in the minimum pensioners. The social security scheme is carried out as before. We have had a social security settlement where you discuss both these questions and other questions that the pensioners are concerned about, and you have to keep doing that. The difference this year, compared to last year, is that no physical transfer of money from the Ministry of Finance's budget line to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' budget line, because it was already done in the budget. I am concerned that pensioners will have a good economy, and they will have a good income development. At present, there is a difficult situation, not least because of the rest of the economy, but the Stortinget is invited to the harvest in connection with the budget to discuss other issues that the pensioners are also concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1788	‘The vast majority of Norway want to keep Sunday as a different day. When the government wanted to liberalise the Holiday Peace Act two years ago, it was clearly informed that neither employers nor employees in the industry themselves wanted to open more shops on Sunday. Nevertheless, the Council of State has signaled that she wants to re-examine the law. Why will the Council of State create new uncertainties and use resources for an investigation shortly after the previous one, instead of ensuring that the current law is observed and enforced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1795	On the initiative of, inter alia: Trade and Office I had an emergency meeting on 6 May, where the theme was Sunday open shops. At this meeting, representatives from both Trade and Office, Works, NHO Trade, SAMFO and, in addition to Rema 1000, the Norway Group and Coop were present. Most of the actors expressed a strong need for improved knowledge base and a detailed investigation of the issue of changing the Sunday-open-shop legislation. On my question about the law today is unclear or if it is difficult to understand the law, everyone answered no. Nevertheless, those representatives, representing a large part of our grocery trade, expressed a clear desire for the government to investigate and review the law. It was for several reasons, but some reason was that people's trade patterns change, and that it is not the same type of trade today as it was before. We see that the case is complex. We do that because we have had a large public debate on the matter, and I also see that when the government sent this matter and the bill at the hearing, there was a formidable amount of hearing response coming in. When the representatives from the grocery store so strongly want a new review of the law, an investigation and a better knowledge base, when I also record that more representatives from the Stortinget feel it is necessary, and I see that there are so many recordings coming through the hearing replies, then I think it is a good idea since this was proposed to me, and I consider it. I am very clear that it is not for the actors to change or consider how the legislation should be interpreted and practised. The law is crystal clear. That is why I am also very pleased that the big players have been out there and fixed it, and then we will see if the government will perhaps come back to a review, as the actors have wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1804	The Minister of Culture here says that the law is crystal clear. Nevertheless, we know that many food shops have for a long time broken the legislation by keeping too large shops open even on Sundays. Both the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Justice respond when they are asked about this, that it is up to the police to address these crimes. The police say on their side that they have no resources to follow it up. In fact, we have had a situation in Norway without respect for the law and without intervention by the government. Can the Council of State live on the fact that the authorities have been sitting and seeing that actors in the daily food industry do not care about what is lawful or not, or will take action to ensure that similar offences do not occur in the future, for example. by looking at the Christian People's Party's proposal that municipalities should also be able to impose fines on shops that are not open on Sundays, in the same way as they carry out gift checks?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1811	I now register that operators in the food chain have gone out and said that they respect the law and want to follow it to the point and the point. I'm glad. Then I think it's not the politicians' job to reconstruct problems that are not there. It has been said that we should now make changes for the buyers who might have some extra square meters at their disposal, or do not follow the law, which is very clear in this area. I'm very happy about that. So today's practice is a result of a construction from the Workers' Party where you have opened the door to Sunday trade and Sunday open. Well, that gives us some challenges. The government’s proposals would lead to less distortion of competition. I would like us to be able to change the legislation in line with that, and I think that today's system is not optimal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1818	Now the Minister of Culture says that she wants to be able to change the legislation. When referring to previously reconstructed issues, a non-constructed issue is that part of the sector for which she is responsible, namely volunteering and sport, is clear that they do not want liberalisation leading to several Sunday-open shops. They depend on people being able to stand up as football judges, team leaders and course managers on Sunday weekends. Has the Minister of Culture considered the conditions for Norwegian volunteering and sport when she now signals that she wants a new investigation and therefore also changes in Sunday open air?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1825	It must be a misunderstanding when the representative Henriksen points out that I want to change the law. It is not possible to change the law as the political majority of the Grand Duchy is put together today. It takes the consequences of this, and therefore we do not promote any proposal for liberalisation. I just want to make it clear that is not going to happen. I have a lot of understanding that many people want to keep Sunday as a different day and not act, and I see that a lot of people use Sunday to act. When I'm inside the so-called Brustad Arcs, there's queues and lots of people in most of the shops. So there are people in Norway who want to be allowed to shop on Sundays. The problem with legislation today is that it is distorting competition. That is a pity, but I have to follow the majority in the Grand Duchy, and that does not mean liberalisation as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1837	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The archive has a major need for archive development funds, only 4 million. crowns are available. This year they received 55 applications with a total application amount of 24 million. krones. The Archives may only provide support for private archives in exceptional cases. What will the Council of State do to improve the financing of private archive work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1846	The private archive work is carried out by various cultural heritage institutions. The archive statistics for 2014 show that the preserved private archives represent a quantity corresponding to a shelf of 110 km. Of these, the Arkivverket is responsible for 40 km, municipal and county archives have 27 km, the museums are responsible for over 23 km and private archives for 14 km, so we talk significantly with kilometers of archives here. The private archive work of the Swedish Archives is financed by annual appropriations for the cultural budget. In addition, the Ministry of Culture grants operating grants to museums and to the private archives of the Mission Archives and the Archives and Libraries of the Labour Movement 2015 was the first year of the Swedish Archives Agency's management of specific archive development funds. These funds are financed by allocation from the surplus to Norwegian Typing. In 2015, 4 million were distributed. kr for development projects for municipal archives, private archives and archives in digital management. Of this, the Swedish Archives allocated 1.6 million. kr for private archive development projects. The four million. So kr as the representative Haukeland Liadal mentions, applies to the last year's allocation. The allocation of profits for cultural purposes for 2016 has not yet been made. It will be clear not too long, and in this respect I would like to assess the financial framework for the archive development funds, including the funds for private archives, to which the representative Haukeland Liadal points.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1859	I thank you for your answer. Museums cannot in practice receive support for private archive projects. This applies after the reorganisation of the Swedish Cultural Council in 2014, which places responsibility for private archives in museums under the Swedish Cultural Council, while private archives in other institutions are the responsibility of the Swedish Archives Agency. In spite of this, the Swedish Council of Culture has stated that they do not have the professional competence to assess applications for private archives in museums, and the Swedish Archives Agency rejects the Museums in pointing out that it is the Council of Culture that manages private archive support for museums. There is therefore no distribution of support for private archive work in museums. What does the Minister of Culture think about the weakening of the funding of private archive work through the fragmentation of the field between the Council of Culture and the Swedish Archives Agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1868	Toys for cultural purposes are used for a variety of purposes, including: The cultural school bag and the Free Fund. There is a lot of this representative Haukeland Liadal knows well. Now the distribution of the funds between the individual objectives is not decided. It's going to be determined by the King in the Council of States, and that's why I can't go into funding here. But to the specific question from the representative: I trust that the basis that the Swedish Archives Agency will use to determine how much is going to go into the private archives this year will be properly and properly maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1875	This is somewhat unclear. I see that in the period 2010–2014 the average distribution was 3.2 million. kr for the private archive work, and according to feedback we now get from the Swedish National Archives Agency, the amount has fallen to NOK 0. What does the Council of State think about the fact that the Council of Culture has never distributed earmarked funds for the private archive work in museums, as the Stortinget provided, and that the National Archives does not now have earmarked funds for private archives?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1882	Now, from the authorities' side, we're very concerned that we're going to have an arm's length distance from the Council of Culture and the decisions they're making. With regard to the private archive strategy of the Riksarchiver, it has two main steps. One is a clearer division of labour, coordination and systematisation. The second is that more resources should be allocated to the private archive field from both the state, state and local authorities — and from business. I am pleased with the Riksarchiver's strategy for the private archive field and believe that the grips of that strategy are correct. I believe that the division of labour and that coordination will also lead to the strengthening of private archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1887	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-01.ana.ud88e1900	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
