ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e22	The representative, Ruth Grung, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e25	On behalf of Torgeir Micaelsen, Ingvild Kjerkol, Freddy de Ruiter, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Marianne Aasen, Kari Henriksen and myself, I promote a proposal for a representative to improve access to specialist nurses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e30	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e42	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Siv Jensen, Bent Höie and Tord Lien for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e49	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. From this pulpit it has repeatedly been called for more action by the government in meeting with increased unemployment and weaker job growth, and today there is no exception. So far, the government has cut the taxes by nearly 20 billion. kr – mostly for those who have the most history – and the government has justified the priority of increasing value creation and employment. On Wednesday before Easter, the Labour Party pointed out that the government has spent 50 million kroner. NOK a day in tax cuts since they took up the government offices, while there have been 45 new unemployed every day. And while most of us have been on Easter break, there have been new messages about cancellations. On 22 March the message came that Maersk had to cancel 70 riggers, and yesterday the message came that the shipping companies believe that 1,200 shipowners will disappear during 2016. The Labour Party believes that a stronger commitment to competence and infrastructure would be far more important for the economy in the longer term than the government's tax cuts, and we also believe – there should not be any surprise for the Minister of Finance – that more targeted, powerful measures to remedy the situation in the South West need to be implemented immediately. Before Easter, the representative Gahr Støre asked Prime Minister Erna Solberg for an estimate of the employment effects of the government's tax cuts. That question was not answered. That is why I address the same question to the Minister of Finance: what is the employment effect of the tax cuts that the government has carried out so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e62	There is no doubt that the impact of increasing unemployment, particularly in the South and West, is demanding for the individual family affected, and for the individual enterprise challenged by it, and that is precisely why it has been so important for the government to take action on a broad scale. But I disagree with the Workers' Party about the view of taxes. The level of taxation is linked to competitiveness. Nor do Norwegian companies have the ability to employ more people if they do not have the capacity to compete. Therefore, it has been crucial for the government to present a tax reform, simply because we need to have a tax level that is in line with the level of the countries with which we normally compete. In addition to being concerned with reducing corporate tax, which is the main element of the tax reform that we presented to the Storting before Christmas, the government has also reduced the wealth tax. I want to clarify: When the representative Marthinsen claims that we have spent most of our time giving tax credits to those who have the most of them, it is wrong. Only 4 pst. of the increased scope of action that the government has had over these years has gone to reduce the taxes on wealth. 96 pst. have gone to all other purposes, including tax relief, increased infrastructure investment and school and education, to mention something. But that is absolutely crucial. When I travel around and meet businesses – private Norwegian-owned enterprises – that are now facing challenges, all call for even greater relief in property taxes and taxes on working capital. It could be tempting to ask Marianne Marthinsen back: Is the Workers' Party interested in a scheme where we contribute to better competitiveness and tax conditions for private Norwegian ownership in Norway, rather than just focusing on state ownership or foreign ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e71	Of course, the Minister of Finance is fully aware that negotiations are taking place on the Stortinget with a view to obtaining a tax system that makes it more profitable to invest in jobs in Norway. That's a consensus. So I have to remind the finance minister that of these tax cuts that have been carried out, over 50 pst. of them went to the 5 pst. richest in Norway. And my question was not about whether the Minister of Finance is too tax cut – we already know that. The question was about the employment impact of these cuts. Any economist would agree that direct use of over-budget money would give faster and stronger results in terms of increased activity, employment, than tax relief when there is no capacity in the economy. We have e.g. SSB calculations showing that the employment effect of tax cuts is only a small fraction of the effect of e.g. public investment or production. Does the Minister of Finance recognise that by changing the way money is used, would it be possible to achieve much higher activity and employment effects without having to start draining the oil fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e80	Here comes a lot of claims at once. First of all, the government does not bottle up the oil fund. The oil fund spends every year. We're doing what's been the assumption all the way, that's using the annual rate of return. I think maybe I should remind Marianne Marthinsen of what her own government wrote then St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001 was presented in 2001, which was the introduction of the action rule. Then the then Labour Party government wrote: ‘An economic policy should not be based on an increase in the level of taxation. Rather, some of the increased space for action should increase the phase-in of oil money, go to ‘reducing taxes and taxes’.’ So it was a recommendation from the Stoltenberg government, which the Stoltenberg government itself never followed up. So it was a prerequisite that we should use the increased scope of action to reduce taxes, to increase investment in infrastructure, to invest in research and education, which we know are the three areas that provide the greatest basis for economic growth. That's what this government is doing, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e94	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Day Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e97	It is particularly important that the Council of State takes the opportunity to ask questions to a representative who has no opportunity to reply, but the Council of State should be given an answer. For them, they vote the quotations of the previous government in terms of economics. That's why the previous government put down corporate tax, for example, that's why the previous government put forward the most offensive national transport plan of the time, which is the same as the government now boasts of implementing. The question that Marianne Marthinsen asked was, can the Council of State make it clear that the huge tax reliefs on wealth to the richest actually give some employment effect? I understand that we're not going to get any answers to that, because it doesn't have that effect. It shows the government's own calculations. We have the experience of Reagan in the United States – his voodoo economy. It didn't work. We have from Thatcher in England, which led to an economy that led to more unemployment and greater differences. And we've seen it in Sweden in recent years. Why should an economy that only leads to increased unemployment and greater differences for people appear differently in Norway than in those countries that have tried it before and failed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e108	I understand that the Workers' Party is against reducing the taxes on wealth. It's an honest thing. I believe it is important in the situation we are in now, actually to listen to those who know where the shoe is printing – those who own the businesses that now have to undergo a demanding conversion. All of the managers and many of their employees ask that we continue to work to reduce the tax burden. They ask us to ensure that we have a competitive tax level of ownership in Norway. This must apply to all ownership in Norway, not only foreign ownership in Norway, but also Norwegian ownership in Norway. That's why it's important to be able to do more things at once, just like this government is doing. We have record investments in infrastructure. We reduce taxes and taxes because this is necessary for competitiveness. We are focusing massively on both research and knowledge, which we know will increase employment over time. But there is no doubt that the Norwegian economy is now going through a difficult transition. We will solve it both with short-term measures and with long-term structural measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e117	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e120	There is no doubt that there is a need for a mechanism of taxes and taxes to ensure that businesses have predictability and not least the ability to operate well. That is why we are very concerned about good negotiations in Stortinget to bring about a tax reform that will solve it. However, we also know that in the current phase of unemployment — high unemployment in certain geographical areas and especially in some age groups — it is also important for a target group to target the measures. I believe that in every budgetary settlement since the new government came – in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Stortinget – we have managed to increase the apprentice's grant, which has increased by NOK 15 000 since the government change. We have also been told in the invitation to tender that there is a requirement for apprentices, which is good when you think about the crime of working life and to get out unprofessional actors. It will also contribute to more apprentices. If there's something that's dangerous, it's that the kids are available, that they're trained in school and they're going to learn, but instead they have to go to Nav. For this reason, I would challenge the Council of State: what other types of action does the Council of State see the need to do to ensure more apprentices, and for example. to increase the apprenticeship allowance or to make demands on apprentices?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e126	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Ropstad, that the strengthening of the apprenticeship grant has been important – together with a wide range of other measures adopted through the budgetary conciliation in Stortinget. We have taken more action on the employment side, we have strengthened labour market measures, we have strengthened the in-house training, we have increased the use of wage subsidies – especially to meet particularly vulnerable groups in the labour market and the apprenticeship subsidy, of course – because it allows more people to expand their skills at a stage where the labour market is more demanding. We're going to do more of what we know works, and that's exactly why, in cooperation between the four parties, we've strengthened this arrangement focused on each and every crossroads. It's an action we get to assess whether we should continue to strengthen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e131	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e134	Road and rail investments are important to ensure short-term activity and to facilitate future value creation. This government has spent more oil money in the last three years than was done in the previous ten years. In the current state of affairs, less attention should be paid to tax cuts and more to investment in road and rail. There is nothing wrong with the rhetoric of the Progress Party and the government in the field, but if we look at the figures, we see that the investments in rail in the adopted budget for 2016 are below the level of the state budget presented by the Minister for Transport of the Central Party for 2014. If we look at investment in the road, it's one below the level that it's set in the National Transport Plan. To quote from Jensen's draft budget for 2016: ‘There are in the first series of national road investments below the national transport plan economic plan framework after three years’.» What will the Minister of Finance do to increase investment in infrastructure, not just talk about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e144	I think I'd like to ask the representative Pollestad to read the budgetary documents a little bit more thoroughly. During the working hours of this government, we have established an infrastructure fund of 100 billion. kr, we've got New Veier AS in place, we've strengthened the investment appropriations for both the road and the track, as well as our grip on the problem that the red-green government didn't take care of, i.e. the maintenance seat. For the second consecutive year, the maintenance allowance declines because this government prioritises both investment and maintenance. So there are many unsolved tasks in the transport sector. I agree with the representative Pollestad that one of the most sensible things we can do is spend more money on infrastructure. That's exactly why the government does it – in addition to reducing taxes to boost the competitiveness of our own business and the investment in research and education, all three areas we know contribute to increased growth and value creation over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e149	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e152	Those who now lose their jobs in the petroleum industry and many related industries will probably need to find new jobs in other sectors. And if companies that are now in the middle of the crisis along the coast, are to evolve, they are probably equally dependent on transforming themselves into new markets. Concrete acute measures that strengthen and facilitate innovation in existing enterprises and start up new ones are one of the most important things that can contribute politically to make everyday life easier. Now the state budget was quite good in 2016, not least after the left contributed with several concrete measures here on the house, and the left of course comes to continue to contribute as heavily by the next crossroads, but the job here on the house becomes considerably simpler and more effective the more government puts into its proposals, whether it is in the RNB or the state budget for 2017. A typical example of measures that need to be put in place is to make it easier to scale up technology, for example. Norwegian Katapult programme for Siva, removing taxes and charges for start-ups... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e161	Time's up. Mr Jensen, the Council of State, is taking the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e164	I am not quite sure if I understood the question, but at least I can say that I agree with the representative Breivik that it is important to bet on innovation and entrepreneurship. We're in a situation where the Norwegian economy is going through a permanent structural change. The number of people employed in oil and gas-related industries will remain smaller in the years to come, although it will provide major, important impulses and contributions to the Norwegian economy in the future. But that means we have to get more legs to stand on. Then we have to facilitate more investment in other types of industries with profitable enterprises and jobs. Therefore, it is important to use the whole instrument, both through direct action by entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and not least through the tax system. I am very pleased with the consensus negotiated between the four parties through the budgetary conciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e171	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e174	The Council of State seems very certain in its case in the discussion on the taxes on wealth, although there is no research or evidence the government can refer to that confirms the Minister of Finance's point of view. But how can it be that disabled, unemployed and young people who have fallen out of high school should always be motivated for more effort by less, while the richest capitalists in society should always be motivated by the Minister of Finance by receiving much more?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e179	I totally disagree with that claim. The condition that we should be able to have good, safe, rusty welfare systems in Norway that take care of those who fall outside for various reasons or that we should be able to take care of those who go out of work for temporary periods is that someone is involved in financing this. Then we need profitable businesses, and the prerequisite for getting profitable businesses is that we have competitiveness. The prerequisite for their competitiveness is that they can operate in an environment that does not compete with countries with which comparison is natural. The level of taxation in Norway has been higher for many years than in countries with which comparison is natural. Therefore, the government proposes to reduce corporation tax to a competitive level. We have listened to all those who own their own businesses in Norway and take them seriously when we also propose to reduce taxes on wealth, simply because it provides more jobs and safer income, which enables us to maintain our welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e187	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e190	The question goes to the Minister of Finance. For the previous round it should be said that it seemed as if there had been enormous tax relief for the current year. If you look at the book effect of tax relief for the current year, it may be more limited than the government itself wants, but at least it is very limited. But what I was concerned about is what you should and can do now for those who are unemployed, and against the increasing unemployment. A good barometer is Norway’s Bank’s regional network and how they assess the labour market situation. The Norwegian Bank’s regional networks are based on interviews with over 300 enterprises across the country. Their report, which came a few weeks ago, shows some very interesting findings that for the Christian People's Party are very important in working on what we can do to strengthen the fight against unemployment in the revised budget. In our view, this is necessary from among others. This report looks at how we can deliver targeted measures that do not prevent the necessary conversion, but actually contribute to it, and that the growth of unemployment, which is particularly high in the South of the West, is addressed in particular. We need action that works quickly, that stimulates employment in the private sector, that saves us for future expenditure, and that does not commit us at a higher general level of expenditure. That is when – not least from the effects of the financial crisis and what was done then – the maintenance and rehabilitation of barley can produce such a positive short-term effect, but also a long-term positive effect. So my specific question is: does the Minister of Finance think that there is a need for specific additional measures aimed at the South-West in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e197	The government believes, and felt, that there was a need for special measures aimed at the South and the West. That's exactly why we presented a 4 billion measure package. in relation to the state budget for the current year, where there were in particular three priority areas. It was just maintenance and construction, it was industry and innovation, and it was labour market action. That's because we know that it gives pretty immediate effect. Although it in no way solves the long-term structural challenges of the Norwegian economy, it will be a temporary relief in the region where the challenges are greatest. That is why we facilitate targeted and systematic projects that could be implemented relatively quickly. There are now ongoing contracts for many of these projects, precisely because we wanted to avoid adopting projects that could only be implemented perhaps after the problems of the Norwegian economy are over. It was one of the main challenges of the financial crisis, that many of the measures the Stortinget decided to take, was first started and started to work in the economy after the financial crisis was over, and then they could be strictly counterproductive. So it is important to realize the projects quickly and in those areas where employment needs are greatest, and I believe that the package of measures contributes significantly to all of this. But then the government has also always said that we need to constantly assess whether the situation is worsening, and that allows us also to be able to bring new and exceptional measures in revision if the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e204	I take it as a positive response to the challenge of the Christian People's Party. I fully agree that what we did was actually a general strong stimulus in the budget, but I would also like to say, when one goes into the March figures, that there is a need to further target actions against geographical areas and sectors. Then I would like to draw up a letter that was sent – cross-politically – from the head of state government in KS Rogaland, Janne Johnsen, in the middle of March, which points out in a very exemplary way what concrete projects can be implemented quickly, with different amounts of money, and which can stimulate the economy positively and not hinder conversion, and thus also contribute in the short term, but also in the long term, to the work we are going to do together. So my question is, is the kind of action that is outlined here, something that the government wants to include?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e213	Of course, the government is also in close and ongoing dialogue with the KS to both monitor and assess whether there are projects around that can be implemented quickly if the need is to be there. Clearly, there are many unresolved needs around many of the country's municipalities, but we must, as the representative Syversen rightly says, target the measures, and I believe that we have done so far through the state budget that was adopted before Christmas. That doesn't mean we're in the goal. This means that we need to constantly assess whether we are going to implement new and more measures, and the first opportunity to do so is in the context of the revised budget, which the Stortinget will receive in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e218	It opens for follow-up questions – first Filip Back.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e221	During the financial crisis, the party leader, Siv Jensen, was concerned about the lack of action by the government at that time. Jensen called for major changes in the state budget to meet increasing unemployment and financial crisis. To VG at the end of October 2008, the current Minister of Finance said: «The government must enter into major investments both in infrastructure and in the maintenance of building stock. But also the municipalities are going to have a terrible year next year. That's why we decided on the national government this weekend to add SEK 5 billion to our alternative state budget." The statements were good. We know that now, as in the case of construction, especially, and even though Norway is not in the midst of a new financial crisis, it is geographically part of the country that notes the consequences of lower oil prices and thus higher unemployment. I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance: do we want to see the same offensive, the same extraordinary measures, as the former leader of the party and the current Minister of Finance raised in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e233	That is, of course, the offensive the government has taken on board in the proposals we have put forward to the Grand Duchy in connection with the state budget, not least for the current year. This is about extraordinary investment in construction and maintenance because it is correct and necessary. It is about strengthening municipalities so that they can trigger more actions and projects. This is about a strong commitment to infrastructure both for maintenance and for new investments. It is about strengthening the competitiveness of a whole Norwegian business. However, it is also important to bear in mind that the challenges facing Norwegian businesses now face are quite twofold. The main challenge lies in and around enterprises linked to oil and gas-related business and industry, while large, other parts of Norwegian business are doing very well. Then it's important that we use the right tools, so that we don't destroy those who have a challenging time for those who now have growth and new market opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e238	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e241	There is no doubt that the situation is getting worse. A few minutes ago, the SSB presented the new AKU unemployment figures for January. They report 134 000 unemployed, 4.8 pst., far above the level predicted in the national budget. The Minister of Finance has previously said that the increased use of oil money should be targeted in a package of measures towards the South-West. Stavanger Aftenblad has shown us, as they went through the action package, that this was a bluff – it was not targeted, it was not applied to actions that work, and there is still uncertainty about large amounts in the action package of just 4 billion. kr. It seems to me that the government has given up the unemployed and is not willing to initiate measures that work. So I wonder what the Minister of Finance thinks when she sees today that unemployment goes up again, once again puts a new record in high unemployment. What would she say to the 134 000 people who are now unemployed, who have seen a government that is not willing to take action? Can they have confidence that the government is now waking up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e250	It's absolutely right that new AKU numbers have been introduced while we've been standing in this word change. That means I haven't had the opportunity to go deep into them. I have understood that there is an increase of 0.2 percentage points compared to October last year, but that employment is also increasing, according to the evidence presented today. But I want to stress that the uncertainty in the material is high, especially because last month we got some happy news in the Nav numbers, which indicates that unemployment might have stopped something. My point of saying that is to underline the great uncertainty that lies in this. I would like to distance myself from the claim that the package of measures is a bluff – that is not correct. There are 4 billion targeted money going to remedy a more demanding situation, especially in the South and West. It is not about giving up the unemployed, rather on the contrary – it is about taking them seriously, making sure that new, profitable jobs are created around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e258	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e261	Yesterday the message came that Orkla is considering moving 80 jobs related to ketchup production from Rygge to Sweden. In the South and Western countries, the package of measures is not targeted. In Rygge, one feels that the government is implementing a targeted policy to get rid of jobs. I am thinking of the so-called airline seat charge, a charge that the Minister of Finance himself has said has been introduced to get money in the treasury. When one sees unemployment rising, will the Minister of Finance consider scrapping this tax, which will directly affect Norwegian jobs, and which, according to the Minister of Finance, has little or no environmental impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e270	The President would point out that the word 'bluff' is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e273	I am not sure if Pollestad now asked me about Orkla or about a passenger fee, but I can confirm that the Stortinget decided before Christmas that a passenger fee would be imposed which was initially due from 1 April. Before Easter I announced that we would postpone its implementation until 1 June, simply because ESA is now looking at the matter. We believe that this is not contrary to State aid law, nor does it need to be notified to ESA, but when ESA is now willing to look into the matter, the government has found it appropriate to postpone the implementation of the levy until 1 June. I am aware that the representative Pollestad has asked many questions about the passenger fee. However, I want to use the last 10 seconds to stress that unemployment is challenging for anyone affected by it. That's why it's important that we stick to the measures we know to create growth and value creation, and that's what the government intends to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e282	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e285	Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Advance Party Siv Jensen has set a new Norwegian record in the number of state bureaucrats in departments and directorates – congratulations. In Norway, we have never had a government that has hired more bureaucrats at such a staggering pace as we now have – condolences [[muttering in the hall]] Let me take a few examples: in the autumn of 2013, local offices were to be centralised and laid down in state financial management and added to some cities. There would be fewer bureaucrats. The answer is that there have been several bureaucrats. Then a massive centralisation of the police has been carried out. You had to free resources, you had to get more police near people. The answer is – if we read the Police Forum that came out yesterday – that you cut the police resources close to people. There's less police resources in the districts, there's explosive growth in consulting, and there's 48 pst. more members of staff of the Police Directorate today than it was in 2013. Let me give you a third example: Local Hospital is being shut down. But when you look at the Health Directorate, it's 24 pst. more bureaucrats in the Health Directorate today than it was in 2013. First you centralize, then you red tape at a staggering pace. My question to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen is: Does the Progress Party still believe that reducing bureaucracy is an objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e294	I disagree with the claim that they both centralize and red tape. I rather believe on the contrary that since we joined the government has been working on a wide range of important reforms to improve the provision of services to people in different sectors. In the field of transport, a wide range of reforms have been put in place to allow us to build both roads faster, fairer and better than in the past. It will provide more money, and it will respond to many of the challenges and expectations of Norwegian business. The figures presented by the government before Easter related to treatment times in the hospitals show that the grips we have taken there make it go the right way. The Minister of Health can certainly say more about that, if he gets any questions. But I agree that we are in no way in the process of achieving effective central government in Norway. On the contrary, I believe that this job is far from being done. But many of the reforms we are in the process of, and not least the fact that we have now implemented this ABE reform, which demands every single year for every state agency to improve resource use over time, will mean that we will get more for taxpayers' money. But are we on target? No, we're not. Is the fight against an effective state and an effective bureaucracy continuing? Yes, it does, I can assure the representative of Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e305	There's never been any greater need for it than now, one has never been further from the goal than now. Because it is a fact that bureaucracy has never grown more than after Siv Jensen became Minister of Finance, and that the bureaucracy in departments and directorates has never grown more than after the Progress Party got the keys in there. So if the Progress Party is busy reducing bureaucracy, they should say: Be so good, take over control so we can do something about it, because at least we can't. And then when one looks at the police, who's had a growth of up to 50 pst. in the Police Directorate, and then when we travel around the country, we see that it is being cut in the local police resources. Last year, the Police Directorate took 100 million. kr from the districts to strengthen their own business, and then we get reports from e.g. Hordaland says that someone doesn't have the resources to investigate normal everyday crime. What kind of priority is this from the Progress Party, strengthening bureaucracy, cutting the resources of the police to ensure your and my daily lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e312	That statement is simply crazy. This government has strengthened the fight against crime in every budget since we joined. We have both increased the appropriations allocated to the police and ensured that all newly educated people come to work after finishing education from the Police College. That's good. But this was a challenge we gave the red-green government every year, without them being able to do anything about it. We've strengthened the courts, we've strengthened the prison capacity, we've simply helped our society gradually become safer. The fight against crime is high on the list of this government. So saying that we haven't strengthened the police's appropriations is simply wrong. I want to repeat what I said instead of saying that it is still a potential for improvement, and that we are in no way in the target, but we have started a wide range of reforms, just to help us spend taxpayers' money better. But I must also remember that it is not all the reforms that the government has proposed for the Storting, which would contribute to less bureaucracy, for which we have received a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e319	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e322	The government is eager to centralise important services that are close to people. One such ideologically driven centralization and bureaucracy is the Center Party against. But now it's also the way that in some areas the Center Party is of course too fewer and more efficient units. Toll collection is such an area, and we support the goal of getting today's 47 toll companies down to five. It will be a red tape reform. That reform is in the blue. No one knows where it'll go. Norvegfinans, who organizes toll companies with the Advance Party in government, writes: «Bomp money is an industry of growth and development». Will the State Council of Jensen take the initiative to ensure that this important reform actually becomes something more than just talk? For now a barely got a meter way in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e330	The government is serious about the toll reform, and the representative Pollestad is quite right that it is a pointless resource use to have so many collecting societies around the country. You can do this in a much more efficient way and thus release money directly back to road construction, which must be the whole point. Questions about the details of the progress of the reform, it is natural that the representative should address the Minister for Transport, who will certainly have the details in mind if the representative asks him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e337	Truls Wickholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e340	The Minister of Finance has cut the government's revenue by nearly 20 billion. kr. 50 pst. Of them have gone to the 5 pst. Richest. And it's true that the Minister of Finance is draining the fund to get this done, because when the Minister of Finance takes out money and doesn't fill in, it's going to be less that the Minister of Finance can get interest from. She's increasing expenses by 180 billion. kr, and she does not document the employment effect of her tax cuts – if one does not count on these 7,988 new state employees or 1,539 new ones in the department and directorate. It is likely that some of the policies of the Progress Party, toll companies that have to be followed by new bureaucrats, will also lead to more bureaucracy in the state. What about the war against bureaucracy when we see this development under the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e345	This is a question that began with the rule of action and ends with bureaucracy. I think I'm going to try to clear up some of the crazy claims that came up on the question. The working party accuses the government of spending too much oil money. I would like to remind you that the whole point of the rule of action has been that we are going to phase in more money year after year. That was the whole premise of the action rule that the Workers' Party put forward in 2001. But there were a few more prerequisites, namely that the increased use of money should go to reduce taxes, to increase investment in infrastructure, to focus more on knowledge. When on the road from 2001 until today was the Workers' Party leaving the track they themselves asked the Stortinget to agree with? For a struggle that the Workers' Party with such zeal is leading to tax cuts, which improves the competitiveness of our business life, one should look for a while. I have to say I think it is alarming that the Workers' Party is going to fight against a competitive tax system when it is the Norwegian business community asking for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e352	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e355	The Minister of Finance began his reply to the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, saying that she was indisputable in the claim. It seemed to me to be an unfortunate use of words, for the representative Schlagsvold Vedum did not make any claim or anything that it was possible to disagree with. There have been 1539 more added to the central government under Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance, bringing together nearly 8 000 more statesmen. As has been noted, the Progress Party announced that they would go to war against bureaucracy. I have to say that there is a rather unfortunate use of language initially, but at least that war seems to be winning on walkovers – on the side of bureaucracy. The left agrees that one should dampen – and preferably reduce – the growth of central government. But we have recorded few, if any, proposals from the government – the only thing that had to be this flat cut that we have been helping to strengthen in the budgetary agreement. Nevertheless, this goes too slowly. Now it is six and a half years to the next major elections – what is the Minister of Finance going to do to fulfill his will?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e364	What I said I disagreed with was the claim of more centralization under this government – I disagree with that. I rather believe on the contrary that we have been concerned that in all areas we should improve the provision of services to people where they live. Then it's about organizing our society in a smarter way, so that we get more for taxpayers' money. That's one of the reasons why we're working on a municipal reform. This is one of the reasons why we have implemented major reforms in the field of transport. This is one of the reasons why we have implemented a wide range of health reforms. This is one of the reasons why several reforms have been undertaken in the whole field of tax administration. I am more than willing to cooperate with the Left on further red tape measures, but then it is also a prerequisite that we get our proposals through. The last reform I presented to the Storting, to wind up the municipal tax collection, was not left to the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e371	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e374	Over the last two years, the government and the majority of the population have introduced a requirement for efficiency in the budget. The Council of State has now said that the government is not in the process of achieving its objectives and that the government has undertaken many reforms. My simple question to the Council of State is: What effects do the Council of State see today of the efficiency goals that we have set ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e381	I am very pleased with that question, and I hope that in time I can give a much more detailed and complementary answer to this. It is important to measure the effects of a new reform, which is not new in this sense, because it has been implemented in many other countries and has long been effective in many other countries, but in Norway it was introduced after the Right and Advance Party came into government. The majority have also reinforced the effects of red tape and efficiencies reform through budgetary negotiations, but what we see is that where measures are managed in a targeted manner in each state budget, they also have good measurable effects. That's good. But these are the effects we would like to report to Stortinget, so as soon as we have a reporting basis – because this is a completely new reform – we will be able to inform the Storting about it in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e386	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e390	Behind what the representative Hemdal and the Council both refer to as an efficiency reform, it hides something interesting. For it is true, as the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, said, that the number of bureaucrats is increasing with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance, while implementing flat cheese needs, efficiency cuts throughout the state. It must mean that the cuts are not taken in the state bureaucracy and in the departments but are taken on the service side. Why is the Minister of Finance not willing to cut down on the actual state bureaucracy, in the state consultancy that is billions of billions a year, instead of cutting off the service offer to the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e395	I am more than willing to do that too, and nothing would please me more than that SV also began to become more concerned about how we can get a more efficient central government. I believe that this is an important overall objective. That was one of the reasons why we introduced the ABE reform. I disagree that it's just a flat cheese match. It is a targeted requirement for each unit of the whole central government, and the point is that more stringent requirements are imposed on resource use. I think we have to do that, and we're going to have to do more of that in the years to come. Then, in addition to that, we can run site reviews and systematically take care of all the areas where there is room for improvement, and I want to discuss that more than want to discuss further with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e400	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e403	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Global warming is an increasingly serious reality. February was the warmest month ever registered internationally in modern times. It underlines the importance of the Paris Agreement and of achieving the objectives set in the Paris Agreement, which show that we need not only to reach the 2 degree target but that we need to reach 1.5 degrees, and that the world needs to have negative emissions when we come out in the second half of this century – that is, major changes and large emission reductions. Recently, Statoil has made an assessment of the consequences of implementing the Paris Agreement and says that they will lose 20 billion. kr. It's a lot of money, but maybe not so dramatic. Otherwise, there are far more dramatic changes in the energy sector. The largest private coal producer in the world, Peabody, is about to go bankrupt – or at least on the brink of it. Looking at the large energy companies in Germany, whether it's E.ON, Vattenfall or RWE, you can see that they're struggling with income, and that the value of the companies is almost melting away. I'm sure that if you had gone five years back in time, none of these companies would have seen this development. At the same time, there is a happy development in the development of battery technology. It improves storage capacity, it is used in the transport sector and becomes cheaper. Renewable energy is becoming increasingly competitive towards fossil energy sources. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: What is the long-term development and risk seen by the Council of State for Norwegian oil and gas activities – and therefore also for the Norwegian State – in the light of the Paris Agreement, and how will he meet it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e416	Let me first start by saying that the climate challenge is a big challenge. Therefore, it is good that the government in its efforts to meet the climate challenge has strong support from the Left, but also from a significant majority in the UK. The climate challenge is not only great – it is clearly also a global challenge that needs to find global solutions. We see, for example: that part of the solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions rapidly and efficiently, which is increasingly being selected in Europe, and which includes, inter alia,: was communicated by the British authorities just before Christmas, replacing the coal power, on which the representative of Elvesuen is involved, with gas. It is one of the fastest and most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Norwegian oil and gas production is part of the EU climate quota system. There is also a wide gulf in the Stortinget. A policy that is currently ahead of us and is consistent with the objectives set by the world community in Paris suggests that emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases within the framework of the EU climate quota system will be more expensive over time. These are aspects that oil companies will take into account when those responsible for making the commercial decisions on a Norwegian base decide where to look for oil and where to expand oil production and not least gas production in the future. This is what I believe we have a system that is robust to and well prepared for – something that the Stortinget also joined when my then Councillor Tine Sundtoft presented these things last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e428	Governments often point out in their argument that Norwegian oil and gas activities are the purest production available in the world. This has probably been true, although one today sees emissions per unit of output also rising in Norway. If we look at the needs that are international, it's not just that we have to have little emissions in production, we also have to be a powerful contributor to carbon capture and storage. Governments have put forward a strategy for capture and storage to implement a full scale project by 2020. But the really big thing is it's going to be when you get a technology where we can put into practice the storage possibilities that are in the North Sea. How does the Council of States see that we're going to be able to drive carbon capture and storage technology, and how are we going to be able to use it, and get a value chain to use, the magazine facilities that are in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e435	When it comes to developing technology to store CO2, it's not the technology we need to develop. On the contrary, Statoil has been holding on to Norwegian pedestal for almost 20 years. They deposited 1 million tonnes in the first years and in recent years, after Snow White was produced, almost 2 million tonnes of CO2 on Norwegian soil. It's a job that, of course, has the full support of the government. Then it is quite right that the representative of Elvesuen points out that in the longer term there is no doubt that there are great opportunities to store significant amounts of CO2 on a Norwegian base. It is well documented by both the Oil Directorate and Gassnova, although the technical solutions for some of these areas need to be further worked on. The problem is that while ten years ago we saw 10–15 carbon capture plants in north-west Europe, none of them have been realised. So there's simply no one asking for storage capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e451	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e454	The question of follow-up goes to the Minister of Finance. Taxes and taxes are one of the most weighty policy tools we have to facilitate economic development and value creation. The Petroleum Tax Regime was last reviewed by a NOU in 2000, more than 15 years ago. In those years, major changes have occurred — structural, oil price and cost, and changes in external framework conditions such as liabilities. climate. And not least, we're in the middle of an energy-related paradigm shift that will increase in power in the future. If we are to ensure a green shift and green growth also in the petroleum sector, it is difficult to avoid an active tax policy. Norway as a leading energy nation now desperately needs a new, holistic review of the petroleum tax agenda. The question is whether the Minister of Finance has agreed on this and together with the Left will contribute to such a review being carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e463	I have to admit that I was a little surprised by that question, simply because all the dialogue I have with Norwegian oil and gas industries and the companies involved in the production on a Norwegian base is about the need for predictability in the tax system. So no one is asking us to make major changes to the existing tax system — rather, on the contrary, to ensure predictability, robustness and long-termity. I think it's important to take it seriously, because we're now in a situation where we have to do two things at once. We are not going away from oil and gas production in Norway. But it's going to be smaller, and we have to take care of the employment and jobs that this industry has after all, which are still large and which are going to be large. However, we must also ensure that we get more legs to stand on, and that's why it's important that we take other steps in the tax system – which helps to make new investments in Norway, which means that we get more industries and more bones to stand on in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e470	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e474	The oil and energy minister can once again stand behind the speaker's chair. My question goes to him because the climate challenges on the one hand and low oil prices and increasing unemployment on the other are all tasks linked to the portfolio of responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy. There is no doubt that the climate challenges are a big task for all of us. The obligations have been given through the Paris Agreement. The availability, the free knowledge, is a major challenge. We have heard a number of questions earlier today about exactly that, and therefore my question to the oil and energy minister is how he thinks, and what contribution he can make with regard to point one, follow up the climate agreement, and point two, ensure that the knowledge now available provides new opportunities for growth and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e481	As the representative of Aasland is well aware, during the spring we will present and hopefully – with the goodwill of the representative of Aasland – also address the energy message, where precisely energy production, climate and industrial development will be an important topic. I am pleased that the Labour Party supported the government's ambitious climate policy when it was presented by Tine Sundtoft last spring, and thus also to a large extent the climate policy frameworks around Norwegian oil policy. On the very question of what the government is doing, I think one of the most important things this government has done to increase not only energy production from a climate perspective, but also employment, are the steps we have taken to stimulate the expansion of renewable energy. So this year we have seen decisions to build what is going to be the biggest power project in Norway's history and Europe's largest wind power project: Fozen Wind in Trøndelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e488	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e491	In the light of Statoil's expected 20-billion-billion-dollar loss. If climate objectives are to be met, I would point out that large land areas are globally unsuitable for food production if the climate challenge is not taken seriously. The question to the Council of State is: Should Statoil get feedback on thinking about social responsibility for people who lose their entire life base, well over 20 billion. kr, if climate targets are not met?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e496	As the government has presented in the ownership announcement, the government has great expectations that all Norwegian companies, not least the wholly or partly state-owned companies, take sustainability and social responsibility in the greatest seriousness. No one conceals that the production of oil and gas contributes to greenhouse gas emissions and thus also climate change. At the same time, it is also the case that companies on the Norwegian base in general and Statoil in particular produce oil and gas as demand in the world, with lower greenhouse gas emissions than the other companies Statoil compete with every single day. I am concerned about stimulating and facilitating Norwegian support, but also encourage Statoil to continue working in its international business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e503	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e506	My question is to the Minister of Finance. Differences in Norway are increasing as a result of government policies. Differences create shame, differences create hopelessness and less trust between people. The fight against injustice is whether we will in the future view each other as equivalent people, or as completely separate classes with different possibilities in life. Differences are married to a society and to cohesion, not only between rich and poor countries, but also internally in Norway. Norway has committed itself through the UN’s sustainability targets to the 40 pst. The poorest in Norway will receive the most growth – they will have to be lifted. It is even the Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, the ambassador for international affairs. But, in Norway, the biggest capitalists are getting the biggest money through annual tax cuts, while those who have the least are getting crumbs or even cut in many cases. So my question is, what authority does the Prime Minister have when she travels around the world talking about lower differences, when she has Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e517	I fully agree with the representative Serigstad Valen that too many differences between people are very problematic. That is precisely why it is so important that we are able to maintain, maintain and gradually improve many of the welfare systems that we have in Norway, and which I believe there is a fairly broad cross-political agreement that we should have because it provides security in periods of life that are demanding for the individual. I mean, we do our job both at home and outside. We are doing this out of focus through targeted assistance, because we are strengthening the focus on knowledge and other things that help more people to cope on their own in emerging economies. But we are definitely doing a lot of work here too slowly, but certainly helping to reduce poverty. I remember the former party leader of SV who was going to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke in a previous election campaign. Obviously, it wasn't that simple. After eight years in government, it was difficult to find too many visible traces of SV's commitment to poverty reduction. At least this government has put forward a strategy to do that, and we've filled in money to achieve the goals. I think we have to keep working because poverty, especially in rich countries, is challenging for those who meet it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e526	I think there are many groups in Norway who do not entirely share the finance minister's sunshine history. Nine million. kr – that's what Siv Jensen is saving to make the kids in 367 families poorer from January this year. There are many families who lose more than ten thousand a year — and that is to make a point that if you have a mother who is seriously ill, it is important that you are poor as well. Another group of governments have gone into surgery. Some of them get a cut of up to NOK 100,000 a year. The government has calculated it on its own. Then are the young people who fall out of high school, who are to be deprived of the daily allowance because it is not to pay to fall out of school, and not to talk about the pensioners, who this year, for the second consecutive year under the board of the Progress Party, get weakened purchasing power. Taxes don't help these pensioners. They'll be on Siv Jensen's fissure team for the richest elite. The road is far from what the Pensionist Association called the social security settlement of the times under Kristin Halvorsen and SV in government, until today. When SV directed the Ministry of Finance, the differences in Norway went down, now they go up. What will the Minister of Finance do to reduce the economic differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e537	I didn't try to draw a sunshine story. Rather, I tried to emphasize the importance of continuing to work in order to reduce differences at home as well. We have to do that through a wide range of instruments. Not least, we need to ensure that more jobs are created, because perhaps the most important reason why many people feel vulnerable is that they are no longer part of the labour market, at least temporarily. Then the representative Serigstad Valen made a visit to the pensioners. I would like to remind you that, in connection with the state budget for the current year, it was decided to make changes to the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, which, with effect from September of this year, will strengthen the economy of 650 000 pensioners. It is an election vow the Progress Party has given, and I am very pleased that the government and the cooperation parties have now been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e544	There will be follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e548	The government has made it clear that the old-age pensioners will lose purchasing power in the social security settlement of the year, just like last year. It is a little special, especially given that last year the Progress Party said that it is not appropriate for pensioners to lose, and suggested compensation. But it was the Progress Party on the Stortinget that opposed the Progress Party in government policy. The party of progress in government, on the other hand, changed nothing. My question today is not about the pension reform in general. Nor is it about curtailment for married and cohabiting pensioners. My question is why the Progress Party at its post will make the country's retirement pensioners less part of the year's settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e555	It is quite right that the Progress Party has had a different view of both pension reform and underregulation, adopted by a broad majority in the UK. But it is also true that when we negotiated the government platform, the Progress Party concluded that we should govern based on the pension reform adopted by the Storting. We'll follow that up. But then the Progress Party has also been clear that we want to do something about the unreasonable curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, and the decision made by Stortinget benefits the retirement pensioners from September this year, with NOK 4000 per pensioner and NOK 8 000 for a married or cohabiting couple. It's clear that it will be noticed for the individual. In addition, changes were made to the state budget for the current year, including for the minimum pensioners. So to say that the government and the cooperation parties have not taken action to remedy the financial situation of pensioners is directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e560	Irene Johansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e563	I want to follow up the relationship with the consequences of the tax cuts for the distribution profile. Our society has been characterized by small differences and an equal side of giving all equal opportunities. However, the government’s tax cuts increase the economic differences in Norway. The tax havens go mainly to the 10 pst. The wealthiest in the country, while the rest of the population experience a cut in welfare schemes, increased self-esteem, increased kindergarten prices, increased electricity tax, etc. Differences are accentuated by increasing unemployment. More attention has been paid in recent years to the impact of economic growth and inequality. Organisations such as the OECD, the IMF and the World Bank have pointed out that as inequalities increase in society, economic growth is falling. What does the Minister of Finance think about the context that, among other things, Does the OECD point to, between economic growth and inequality in relation to the increasing inequality that government policy brings about?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e572	It is quite right that organisations such as the IMF and the OECD have looked at these issues in many countries, including Norway. They have found that Norway stands out, because the differences here are smaller than in many other countries. It is also true that organisations such as the OECD and the IMF have recommended Norway to implement a tax reform and continue to work to reduce the level of taxation, simply because it is too high compared to countries it is natural to compare with. So there's something about that when the representative Johansen reads reports, she has to read all of it. So we get recommendations from these organisations to continue to work to reduce taxes, and we get commended because the differences in Norway are less than in countries where it is natural to compare with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e579	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e582	Progress party leader and finance minister Siv Jensen is incredibly satisfied with how well the pensioners have got in the country after she became Minister of Finance. Last year, I remember that the Group of the Party of European Socialists applauded the proposal of the Party of Presidents in government when it came to pensions. There were loud protests against the Progress Party in government from the Progress Party in Stortinget. Now I understand it's amazing again from the Progress Party – the pensioners are going to get a gold year this year. It's all great. So the question is: when there is a proposal from the government, in which the leader of the Progress Party is Minister of Finance, will it also be this year that the Progress Party in the Government believes that everything is fantastic and that the Progress Party in the Stortinget believes that everything is cruel?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e589	I didn't say it would be a golden year. I have said that we have been able to reduce the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, which very many – hundreds of thousands of pensioners – experience as very unfair, and which I did not notice that the Senter party went to battle to do something with their years in government. So we've done it. As I said in my previous answer, we disagreed with the pension reform. We've disagreed with the underregulation, which is one of the principles in it. But we have also joined forces to govern on the basis of the pension reform points to which a broad majority of the Biggest have joined, including the Center Party, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e596	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e599	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. A General Foreign Affairs Committee summarised in the Settings for Notification. St. 10 for 2014–2015, Possibilities for all – human rights as objectives and means of foreign and development policy, inter alia: ‘Entertainment interests must not be at the expense of human rights.’ The size has also been very clear that corruption must not be part of the activities of Norwegian companies abroad. So Norway and Statoil have been operating oil in Angola for a number of years and made a lot of money there. During the same period, the human rights situation, the corruption situation and the regime in Angola have not gone in the right direction. Governments have been asked a number of questions about where large funds have been invested in and paid in the signature bonus to technology companies, social projects, etc. in Angola. This money is known to be gone and not traceable. Statoil has admitted that the companies have not asked questions about this. The Council of State is quoted in Dagbladet on 7 March, after a number of questions from the media: ‘I have clear expectations that Statoil is working systematically on its social responsibility, where the fight against corruption is very important. It is Statoil who is responsible for monitoring expectations’. The government’s own action plan on the follow-up to the UN’s guiding principles for business and human rights states: ‘The follow-up to the work of companies on human rights and social responsibility takes place through the ownership dialogue in quarterly meetings and/or annual meetings on social responsibility. Thus, in specific cases further follow-up of companies may be relevant.’ So the government has its own responsibility to follow up the expectations of the state's business, and the question to the Council of State then becomes: can the Council of State confirm that, as part of the government's ownership dialogue with Statoil, it has its own responsibility to follow up the government's expectations of Statoil's work on social responsibility, and to clarify whether industrial interests have gone at the expense of human rights in Angola?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e628	I can confirm that this and many other issues related to transparency and anti-corruption work have been the subject of conversations between me and Statoil's board. Let me begin by stating that corruption is a serious problem, especially in countries that are in economic development, such as Angola, to which the representative Hansson refers. Therefore, it is good that corruption is punishable, whether it is state-owned Norwegian companies or private-owned Norwegian companies. It is punishable by Norwegian law, and it is punishable by a wide range of international conventions. This, of course, follows the government in the ownership dialogue with the companies, and it is mentioned in detail in the ownership announcement, which has been widely endorsed in Stortinget. However, transparency about financial transactions is one of the most important means of preventing and combating corruption. Therefore, it is good that Statoil has been among the most open companies in the world in terms of transparency and transparency for many years, long before legal requirements were imposed on this. Transparency International's rankings show. Statoil has gone ahead. Since 2011, this type of information has been published in Statoil’s sustainability reports. There were few, if some other oil companies that as early as 2011 had full transparency about this kind of payments. So we know where the money's paid out. They have been paid to a company fully and completely controlled by the Angolan State, and Statoil's internationalisation to over 30 countries, including Angola, has had broad political support in this Chamber for many years, like the important anti-corruption work in which all state companies are expected to participate actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e640	Thanks for the answer. ‘Openness’ is a key keyword. The problem is just the absence of transparency. The problem is the absence of information on how very large Norwegian funds have been shipped when they have been paid by Statoil to Angolan counterparts. Statoil has not contributed to the transparency of how these transactions have been completed and what they have resulted in. They have even entered into agreements that they should not have access to this information. The question to the Council of State is: to what extent does he feel that he himself has actively contributed, in accordance with the government's own action plans, to more transparency and more information about what is behind these transactions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e647	I have been clear in all my dialogue with Statoil, in all my own follow-up with Statoil, that we have great expectations for the follow-up of sustainability in general and for anti-corruption in particular. In all my formal conversations in the follow-up to the owner, this has been a topic. I am not familiar with the description that Statoil is a little transparent. On the contrary, Statoil has repeatedly gone ahead in being more open about this type of financial transaction than the vast majority of companies they compete with. I think most of the other major international actors in Angola are less open than Statoil. I'm glad. I am also pleased that Statoil has, over and over again, gone ahead and demonstrated the will for greater transparency than their ‘peers’ in the international oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e654	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jette F. Christensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e657	Now it's over 700 million. is missing in Angola. These are looking for Statoil, these are looking for Stortinget, these are looking for Norwegian press. The minister has written to the inspection committee several times that he does not see it as his responsibility to look for that money. Then I have to ask: Why not? In what other way than looking for that money does the Minister see that he will follow up the Storting's intention and the government's intention of anti-corruption work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e669	I note that this question describes Statoil’s way of working – both the previous replicator and the representative Christensen – in a way that I do not know about. Statoil has, on the contrary, been clear that they are actively working with the authorities in Angola and with Sonangol, who are the whole time of the authorities in Angola, to identify the progress of this technology centre, which has been part of the settlement agreed in 2011 when this agreement was concluded. I trust that the board will continue to work to find out about these issues, and I expect, of course, that the shareholders – including the Norwegian state – will be informed about this, on which Statoil has historically been very good at through the sustainability reporting they started in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e676	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e679	I have to say that I have been concerned for a long time about Statoil and other companies operating in countries like Angola, where we know that there is a lot of corruption, that you get a situation where you care very carefully about your own business, but in meeting with the state and society it becomes almost a self-imposed naivety – there are some things you don't want to know about the transactions you do, through both ‘signing fees’ and other transactions. But where that money really ends up, and how they go into the treasury, is something you really don't want to go into. And then my question becomes to the Council of State, based on the situation that is now in Angola, and the 700 million. If you haven't explained, the Council of State shares that concern, that is, that you operate within the control of your own business, you do it very correctly, but that you still agree to build up a corruption business in this type of country because you don't... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e686	As I said to the representative Hansson in the first question, there is no doubt that corruption weakens growth and prosperity – it weakens the possibilities for sharing the values from extracting natural resources, such as minerals, oil and gas. We also know that transparency about financial transactions is the most important means of combating corruption. Therefore, I am pleased and very clear to Statoil that transparency about these kinds of transactions is important. I am also very pleased that the Board of Directors of Statoil and Statoil say that they will continue to follow this up with the Angolan authorities who have received this money, just to find out where they have gone. But it's like there's been a lot of political support for many years for Statoil's international commitment, including its commitment to Angola.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e695	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e698	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Today’s Business Today, the Prime Minister says that people are now ‘seeing the results of government policy’. In my home country, the unemployment rate has increased by 35 pst. the last year. On Stord, an important industrial municipality, is 6 pst. of the full-time job-stick. More than 100 offshore service ships are in the bows, and until summer half of the Norwegian rigs will be in storage. We see in the West that the crisis in the supply industry is spreading to other industries and is affecting more and more. This is hard for those who are personally hit, it is hard for communities affected, and it is dangerous for the Norwegian supplier industry’s ability to deliver when the activity resumes. The competitiveness of industry is the industry’s own responsibility, says the Minister for Oil and Energy – while tens of thousands have to go. This is a position which is in stark contrast to the policy pursued by other governments, a policy which has been supported by the Norwegian supplier industry, and which has contributed to its taking a leading international position. Never before have we had such a passive and merciless government in a crisis period for the country's largest industry. It is obvious that the government's inaction results in a loss of competence and lost opportunities. Oil companies cut their costs by pushing their subcontractors, postponing projects and reducing maintenance. The result is a record unemployment rate and an industry that, day by day, loses both competence and capacity. Since accession, the government has said that it is following the situation closely. But 130,000 unemployed don't need spectators, they need a government that has power of action. When will we see an oil minister addressing the situation of the supplier industry and delivering measures that increase activity and ensure capacity and competence in the heavy situation that is for the whole industry during these days?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e711	I have to admit that I am getting a little stunned by the way you describe this. In its nearly 50-year history on Norwegian pedestal, the oil industry has always been a cyclic industry that has stood in and handled ups and downs. The activity level on Norwegian pedestal is higher in 2016 than in most of the years under the red-green government, without me remembering that someone at the time called out that now is the crisis. At the same time, the government has provided a package of measures, which has been the subject of several times today, but what is the basis for profitable jobs in the oil industry is just profitable production of oil and gas. Therefore, when the market situation is as it is, it is important that the industry now does a lot of good and sensible work to bring down the costs per barrel produced to get the oil up. On the part of the government, as the Minister of Finance has pointed out, some of the most important things we can contribute to are stable and predictable framework conditions. I want to use this opportunity to pay tribute to the Workers' Party and the representative Henriksen for finally deciding to contribute to the positive administration of the Johan Sverdrup field, which on Stord is now creating significant values and securing profitable jobs because the contracts could go out when they went out, and that that project was not exposed due to decisions in Stortingen, as many feared in spring 2014. In addition, for the first time since the Red-Greens took power, in 2015 we have increased the investment in research and development of new oil technologies by over 100 million this year. There are measures that allow more people to be employed directly in the oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e723	It's true that this is a cyclical business. In previous downsurges, labour party governments acted, as we did in 1993, when we set up Norsok, in 1997, when we took the initiative to set up INTSOK, and in 2001, when KonKraft cooperation was established – to mention some of the powerful measures taken in the time of the crisis. All these measures have worked, and none of them would exist without political initiative and will. In these last years we have been in opposition, in the Labour Party we have presented a number of proposals for measures that can increase activity and strengthen the Norwegian supplier industry. Industry calls for improvements in the permitting legislation and calls for incentives for increased extraction. From the government we have seen no measures in addition to land allocations in ordinary concession rounds. Even the government's own promise of changes to the petroleum tax system has not materialized in any concrete way. 60 years ago, Doris Day did success with the song "Que Sera, Sera" – what happens, it happens. Does the Council of State agree that this refuted in a good way sums up government policy in the face of the crisis in the oil industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e732	In no way – I note that the representative Henriksen is trying to devalue industry’s access to land. However, in the long term, access to new areas is just stable and predictable and determines whether profitable jobs in this important industry can be maintained. That is why I am pleased that we have set a new record – the two largest allocations in the TFO rounds have come while I have been Minister of Oil and Energy. It was granted in January 2016 and in January 2014. It provides the basis for long-term, high value creation on a Norwegian base. I am pleased that before the summer of this year I will allocate land in newly opened areas for the first time since I was Russian myself in 1994.This is the basis for profitable jobs in Norway in the long term. In the case of KonForce and the standardisation work, the industry tells me that this is the work they are doing. I don't belong to a party that thinks it's right that the oil and energy minister sit down and decide things that the industry, with the trade movement on the ground, is fully capable of deciding – without my direct involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e741	It opens for follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e744	No one disagrees that access to land is important, but that is not all. The petroleum industry has now established itself in the Barents Sea and has the potential to contribute to growth and job creation in the north for many years to come. Snow White and Goliath have contributed to growth and many new jobs in Finnmark. It is, of course, due to access to land, but not least to the fact that the Stoltenberg I government contributed a tax solution for Snow White, and that the Stoltenberg II government made very strict and detailed demands on land ring effects in connection with the Goliath project, which is now in operation. In other words, there was an active policy for industrial development on land. It's not that easy to get an eye on at today's government. I would like to ask what the Minister of Oil and Energy will do to secure jobs on land in the north, and quite specifically what the government will do to ensure landing to Veidnes in the North Cape municipality of the Johan Castberg project, which is the next project out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e751	I have just been through a line change with the representative Henriksen on the major challenges facing the industry, precisely because the oil price has fallen by almost two thirds in 18 months. This means that the industry now needs to take action to bring down the costs of the projects. As far as the Johan Castberg project is concerned, industry has taken great steps to ensure that it now looks as if it is possible to realise the development of Johan Castberg even with an oil price level that is far from what we saw when the design and planning of Johan Castberg started. Tax does not make a project more or less profitable. Tax only transfers financial resources between companies and the state. We've created a system in Norway that allows us to use the companies as agents for the state to extract oil and gas, and then you divide the values. But then you also protect about the values to be distributed. Therefore, cost reduction is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e758	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-30.ana.ud2203e771	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
