ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e36	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative of Oppland Christian People's Party, Olav Djupvik, has passed away. He died on 31 May this year, 85 years old. Olav Djupvik was born in Blaker on 5 February 1931. He came from a family of teachers and also chose the teaching thing for his working life. After working as a teacher in Oslo, Ashim and Rendalen, he came to Lillehammer in 1970. Here he lived for the rest of his life. He engaged politically in the Christian People's Party and met in the presidency in Lillehammer for two periods. In 1977 he was elected to the Stortinget from Uppland County. Upland has never been a typical Christian People's Party state, and with Olav Djupvik the county was given its first representative. As a schoolman, it was natural that he got a place in what was then the church and education committee. The party went back somewhat in the uprising at the election in 1981, and the Christian People's Party mandate in Oppland was one of those who were then lost. So there was only one period at the Stortinget for Olav Djupvik. When Olav Djupvik got involved in one thing, it was all about him. The fight against abortion was one such thing. In the 1981 election campaign, he was an uncompromising opponent of the Christian People's Party's involvement in a government that would not undertake to abolish the abortion law that had been passed in 1978. After the Right released its representatives, it was clear that such a change would not come, and the Christian People's Party was at first standing outside the Willoch government. When the party then entered the government in 1983, Olav Djupvik reported himself out of the party. Until he was retired in 1996, he worked as a pedagogical consultant, school principal and principal in the municipality of Lillehammer. In 1976 he published a debate paper entitled 'What does our children learn at school? Brief textbook for school and home» at Luther Publisher. Both as a person and politician, Olav Djupvik was a person who stood firm against what he thought was wrong, regardless of what it would cost him. There is respect for the commitment of a man who could rightly be called a warrior. It is with anger that we have received the message that he has gone away. We remember Olav Djupvik for his work in the Storting and shine peace over his memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e63	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Ola Elvestuen and Kenneth Svendsen on leave from 14 November to 18 November – all to participate in the high-level part of the 22nd Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the 12th Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, COP22, in Marrakech, Morocco by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on days 15 and 16 November to attend the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Ottawa, Canada These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under Eirik Sivertsen's permit for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For More and Romesdal counties: Steinar Reiten 15-17. November For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen 15-17. ==References====External links== November For Oslo: Guri Melby 15-17. November
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e138	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e151	The image of foreign policy is now marked by greater uncertainty – Brexit and President Trump, if we are to take the rhetoric seriously from the election campaign. Therefore I join the closing words of the Council of State in the statement: ‘We do not need less cooperation in Europe. We need a more cohesive and stronger Europe’. It is then reassuring to see that the European political institutions continue to work unrelentingly on important issues, and that Norway is taking part in this work. Strengthening the European crisis management capability: the development of closer cooperation on defence and security policy, even more important now with President Trump's words from the election campaign in memory enhanced police and criminal law cooperation; better preparedness for terrorist attacks, but also for natural disasters and other serious threats; improving the coordination of civil protection However, it is also strengthened by issues such as cross-border parcel delivery, audiovisual media services, consumer contracts – elements of a digital agenda that will create economic growth and make everyday life safer and easier for citizens. It's important in a future in which our European neighbours now live in the same borderless existence that we've enjoyed and enjoyed in the Nordic region for 60 years. Through Nordic cooperation, we have in fact been pathfinders and entrepreneurs of EU cooperation in many ways. The Nordic countries should continue to take the role of inspiration through active participation in European cooperation because it serves our interests. Common challenges best meet together. It is good news that we are now implementing the financial supervision packages, so that the Norwegian financial industry has full access to the internal market and that there appears to be a solution to the BEREC participation, so that the telecoms package can be included in the EEA Agreement. Fortunately, EU cooperation does not stop, although it faces major challenges due to events in the environment: the war in Syria, the collapse of countries in the Middle East and Africa and the banking crackdown in the United States, which many countries are still struggling with the aftermath. Norway participates where we can, but it is not without challenges from a form of association that does not involve political cooperation. We can meet it in the EU Energy Union. It is high time that the government presented to the Stortinget a matter of how it will affect Norway. We expect this not only to be planned, as the Council of State said, but to be implemented as soon as possible. Climate policy: the Paris Agreement has entered into force and is legally binding. The government has agreed that Norway will implement the commitments in cooperation with the EU. The task the EU gives us seems ready: 40 pst. cut in the emissions of the non-quota sector, even if the Commission has to count on the figures. The agreement cannot be concluded until the EU has adopted its legislation, which will also apply to us. That's how we're used to it. But that doesn't give the government any excuse to wait to start the job. But there's going to be another debate. The Minister for Europe said that the government is in favour of a bilateral agreement outside the EEA Agreement, while the Commission wants an agreement anchored in Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement. The Council of States should clarify for the Storting whether — and, where appropriate, what consequences the two different options will have in practice, other than the fact that EEA anchoring is easier to accept on the EU side. What is also unclear is the way in which Norway’s compliance with its obligations is to be monitored and by whom. Is it ESA and the EFTA Court, or is it the Commission? Will there be appeal mechanisms, as we know it from the EEA Agreement, or not? And will there be different mechanisms for the two contract options? It should be clarified by the Council of State for Stortinget. Brexit: It is important now to call about the EEA Agreement. It is the EU agreement with third countries that works, largely painless. The agreements with Switzerland are in crisis. The various neighbouring country agreements have major challenges. The EEA works well. The dream of a majority of Brixites in the United Kingdom that it would open up the possibility of getting what they called a better deal should be awakened as soon as possible. There is only one agreement that could better protect Norwegian interests than the EEA Agreement. That option has the Norwegian people said no to twice, and the mood for another answer now does not seem particularly promising. At the same time, there is a broad consensus in this room that it is important for Norway to ensure good conditions for trade with the United Kingdom, one of our most important trading partners. When the Council of State says that the ambition is ‘as good access to the British market for Norwegian business’ as today, she puts the list high, but I hope it will succeed. Equally ambitious is not the Council of States in securing Norwegian interests in the negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom when Article 50 is triggered. We have had an exchange of views on this both in the Committee on European Affairs and in the Committee on Petitions. But why does the government doubt the formalist approach that Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon should restrict the possibility for EFTA countries to have a place in those negotiations and that Article 127 of the EEA Agreement should not require negotiations? Article 127 states: ‘The other Contracting Parties shall convene a diplomatic conference to assess any changes which may be necessary to the Agreement immediately after notification that a Contracting Party intends to withdraw from the Agreement.’;» This is, of course, formulated in view of the withdrawal of one EFTA country. Does the Council of State mean that the diplomatic conference should then be used only to write about the articles describing which countries are party to ESA and the EFTA Court – and then to dinner? Of course not. The same problems arising from this network of obligations and rights in the internal market will have to be solved, as is now the case with the United Kingdom. And the solutions found must apply to the entire internal market, not just to the 27 members of the EU. In the statement, the Council of State says: ‘Norway will have an active approach to safeguard Norwegian interests in the light of the forthcoming call-out negotiations and in the light of the future EU-United Kingdom relationship.’ Why are you so modest in your ambitions that you just have to entrust this activity to the passages outside the negotiating room? The Irish Minister for Europe has called for meetings to be needed now, only among the 27 remaining in the EU, and also with the three EFTA countries in the EEA. This invitation should be taken by the government. There's an important perspective here. The Council of State says that the government is doing well to promote its views on the EU, London, Berlin, Paris, Warsaw and the Nordic capitals – well and well. But what are the government's views, besides that we want to ensure good trade relations with the United Kingdom? What is e.g. the views of the government on the status of British citizens working, studying and living in Norway and other Member States after the United Kingdom is out of the EU and they are no longer covered by the rights of an EU citizen? What status do we want the Nordics who live, work and study in the United Kingdom to have? What is the government's view and view of that? Since the government is assessing the impact, there are probably many such issues that are not fully understood today. But when they show up on the radar, I assume that the government will keep in close contact with Stortinget about what will be Norwegian positions and interests in the flooded by questions that will find their solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e224	27 years ago yesterday, the fall of the Berlin Wall marked the beginning of a united and democratic Europe. Today, we are facing a more challenging foreign and security policy situation than for a long time. We are challenged by the migration crisis, violent extremism, destabilization in our neighbourhoods and a more unpredictable Russia. We are experiencing increased vulnerability and a sense that the word we have built in Europe and globally in the last decades is brittle than we thought. In Europe’s southern neighbourhoods there are several areas of war and conflict. From North Africa and Sahel via the Middle East and Afghanistan, it is a belt of vulnerable states struggling with radicalisation and violent extremism as well as weak government governance, high unemployment and not least this among the young. When faced with a more demanding security situation, the need for close cooperation with the EU and European partners in foreign and security policy is becoming increasingly important. It is in our interest that the EU should be as united as possible and that Europe should take greater responsibility for its own security. Together, the EU and NATO have a wide range of instruments. There is no contradiction between European and Atlantic orientation in Norwegian foreign policy. On the contrary: Norway is NATO in the north. We need a strong EU, a strong NATO and close cooperation between the two. European countries have always been Norway’s close neighbours and main trading partners. Together with the United States, they are our most important friends and allies, and our main political partners to preserve and strengthen not only regional but also global values and rules of play. But brexit has been one waker too many. Strong flows in several European countries do not want closer integration, more globalisation or more European cooperation. Increased migration and the large number of refugees have put European cooperation and solidarity to the test. Horrible terrorist attacks in European cities have caused unrest and fear among the population. Political, economic and in most areas of society, what is happening in Europe has a direct impact on Norway. Therefore, Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. It is in Norwegian interest that the EU succeeds in developing its security and defence cooperation. Improved European crisis management capability is a strength for the international community and for Norway. The Norwegian input to the EU’s global strategy, presented in July, has four main messages: firstly, that the EU should develop its foreign and security policy in close cooperation with good partners such as Norway. This is not least important in relations with Russia. Secondly, we believe that the European Union's Arctic policy should be based on the law of the sea. Thirdly, the EU and NATO should coordinate their policies even more closely, and concrete steps should be taken towards closer coordination. It is important that Europe stands united behind the reactions to Russia’s international law violations and unacceptable acts in Ukraine. Norway contributes to European consensus by concluding restrictive EU measures. The United Kingdom is Europe's second most populous country and the second largest economy. It is very important that the government works to ensure that, after Brexit, we have as good cooperation with the United Kingdom as we do today. Norwegian businesses need stable and predictable framework conditions and as good market access as possible in the United Kingdom. It is good that we have been assured from the British side that they also want this, even after Brexit. At the same time, it is important to ensure the continued functioning of the EEA Agreement, even after Brexit. The EEA Agreement provides Norwegian industry with full access to the EU internal market in all areas other than seafood and may be the main framework condition for Norwegian business. We must not doubt this agreement and create further problems in an already challenging time. The Paris Agreement entered into force on 4 November. The Paris Agreement is the first global agreement that obliges all countries to set themselves increasingly ambitious climate targets to reduce emissions. The rapid entry into force of the agreement is a very good news, and it shows that the world is united to prevent dangerous climate change. Norway contributes heavily in Europe. Europe's challenges are our challenges. We contribute to everything from energy security through migration solutions and strategic use of EEA funds. Our efforts are to secure Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e249	First of all, I will be allowed to give honor to the Council of State for a very good and thorough presentation. It is very important that we maintain this precisely with the fact that the Council of States is coming and making a statement on EU and EEA matters in the Storting, because it is also involved. to trigger the debate we have today in these areas that are so important to Norway. The councils were in a number of areas, but with my speaking time, which is a small part of the council, there are a few areas I'm going to go into, which are important. Several others have also dealt with these issues in the past. I'll start by talking about brexit. What happened to brexit probably came as a surprise to a lot of people. Like the election that we just have behind us in the United States, it was probably not that many who saw the outcome of the election that happened in the United Kingdom. What is important for Norway is that we must ensure that we maintain our cooperation and not least our trade cooperation with one of Europe's greatest, and Norway's most important, countries. It is important that we make sure that we have a permanent agreement with the United Kingdom in place. Although it is most unlikely to be possible before the brexit bit is decided, as an Article 50 trigger has already been notified, it is important that we have as wide a cooperation as possible in the time that is now coming. Then you have to put the EEA Agreement as a basis at the bottom of that continuation, but here you also have to look at what opportunities you have to work bilaterally alongside this. There are clear limitations that arise from Article 50 on what can be done next. From Norway, you have to take advantage of all the opportunities you have. Prime Minister Theresa May has previously said that the British want a tailor-made agreement with the EU and that the EEA Agreement will not be up to date. Should this change, it is quite obvious that in that case the government will have to take an open position, and that has also been said, but there is little evidence that it will happen. What is important in the future is that we ensure that we eliminate any uncertainty about what is going to happen, because Norway has a number of agreements and cooperation with the United Kingdom. It's on the gas deal that we have with the United Kingdom. We also have fisheries agreements that have been concluded with the EU and that now have a completely different device. This will include, inter alia: in the pelagic sector, we will no longer deal with Norway, the Faeroe Islands and the EU. Now we have to deal with Norway, the United Kingdom, the Faeroe Islands and the EU. In addition, we have the Iceland issue related to the pelagic sector. These things we have to find a solution, and I'm very happy that the government has notified you that you're working on this permanently. The migration that we saw especially last year, which has declined this year, is important that we have control over the coming years. What happened when we got these migration flows was that the whole EEA and Schengen systems were not only put to the test, but it turned out that when it came to Schengen, the system collapsed completely. This is a system that is essentially robust and built for the future. It is absolutely essential, as I said, for Norway that this works optimally. We see, in fact, that migration flows into Europe have not stopped, it's just that they find other ways. Therefore, it is important that we are very clear here what Norway's position is, and that solutions are put in place, have the extended border controls that you have put in place and that you have the opportunity to do, and that you have to take care of them in the time that comes. I think it was the representative of the Workers' Party, Svein Roald Hansen, who was concerned about the importance of the EEA Agreement. It is very important, it is the one that governs our trade policy with the European Union, and it is also going to do so in the coming years. However, there may be individual elements in this agreement, including: related to the export of welfare benefits, which must be possible. Among other things, that when the United Kingdom negotiated Brexit, there were opportunities to move on there, for there are also some EU countries with the same interests as Norway. I hope that it may be possible to look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e266	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough distribution, where we received clear messages that Norway should bind more closely to the EU than today in more areas. Before the police and judicial area, before civil protection and before defence, the government wants to press the accelerator for further integration with the EU. What the Council of State said less about is how integration is to be done and how it is to be financed. Can the Council of State in its statement elaborate on how it sees this EU adaptation to take place and what its economic consequences are? Today it is far too many in Europe and in the United States, as it was in Europe the day after Brexit in the United Kingdom. One clings in his head and wonders what really happened: «What here us so hard?» With Trump on the way into the White House in the United States, far-sighted policies are replaced by uncertain ones, which also touch us in Europe. Although there are many different factors that have played into the two options, there is something similar. Experts, commentators and pollinators have taken a total error in their predictions of the result. They have not captured currents in the people, the dissatisfaction that has built up over a long time, and the lack of trust between the rulers and those who are being directed. When the United Kingdom decided to leave the EU, the Norwegian government was busy explaining that, of course, only the resistance to immigration was behind. That's wrong. I think Norway must have the most loyal EU government in Europe. First, warn a British against going out of the EU. So an EFTA refused to send letters to invite to cooperate after Brexit. So threaten to block any UK EFTA membership, and then, under strong pressure from Norwegian industry, the Norwegian hold was changed to Norway, of course, being positive in cooperation with the UK, but the UK itself had to find out what they wanted. But when the British wanted to set up a formal working group with Norway to prepare a new free trade agreement after Brexit, it was, on the contrary, no from the government, although according to today's business life there were different views and different advice from the government. So the government must be the closest one going to make Norway an audio empire in the EU. But what will the government do to the United Kingdom? What does the government want to do to meet the business community, to be a caretaker? Would you like to continue with the inactivity and point to various arrangements, or would you like to do something active? In both the United States and the EU, people have seen global and regional agreements shift power from populist to global companies – agreements such as the EEA, like NAFTA, as other major regional or global agreements. People are not stupid. When one has no growth in the number of jobs, while a small elite is left with almost the whole growth, the inequalities increase. People see that. The wage growth of the working/middle class has been on the scene for the last 20 years, and inequalities are increasing dramatically. It is the case in the United States, and it is also true in many parts of Europe, where unemployment is high in many countries. So I listened that both the Foreign Minister of the United Kingdom and the Prime Minister in the debate at the NRK showed that trade agreements have lifted millions or poverty. But if it was such joy over these agreements, why were the developing countries that stopped the Doha Round in the WTO? Because the rich would pull up the ladder and refuse developing countries to use the same mechanisms that have made us rich. The interrelationship of WTO negotiations continues in processes of regional trade agreements, such as TTP, TIP and TISA, etc. And it is not secret that the countries negotiating are so powerful that the developing countries will be forced to enter into the same agreements – without having a seat around the table and negotiating. It is not surprising that ordinary people in the United States and Europe are protesting, and it is not surprising that there is a right-wing populist party that threatens stability on the European continent. But the EU, the Labour Party and the Blue-Blue Government don't listen, either. And as the representative Svein Roald Hansen said, EU cooperation, fortunately, does not stop. The EU itself has the incentive to create the problems that the EU is now unable to solve. The EU was supposed to create a better life and economic security for its citizens, but it turns out to be an elite project. A few get better, while most people get worse. The EU has not taken stock of the industry. One has locked the EU country into a monetary union that is particularly dysfunctional. Still more people lose hope and believe in a better life. In the Central Party, we believe that a good society is a society with small differences and good social, geographical and economic distribution. It achieves us with good national governance and closeness between people and those who rule, and where one listens to them one is set to rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e289	The last day, I think it became clear to most of us that both the Nordics and Europe are going to become more important to us in the future – if we look at the signals that the American election campaign has given us, with a United States that is becoming both more protective, less concerned about putting up defence cooperation and more introverted throughout its rhetoric. I'm just going to get short on some topic -- there's not so much one get to do in five minutes of long reasoning about the challenges we're now facing. Governments spent a lot of time on the environment. The choice in the United States also creates uncertainty for the environmental effort and the living conditions of the Paris Agreement in the world in the coming years. Norway has been active, but in the environmental effort of the government, I believe that I am tracking a very high degree of patience in waiting for the EU. It gets both harder and much more expensive the longer we wait. We should start working now and not just wait for EU systems to leave. We should be active participants to get this in place. The second thing I notice is the EU’s commitment to digitisation, which is a very important area, and which also – sail if it seems like there are signs that EU cooperation is now weakening a little – is an important area of activity for Norway as well. Here we must not slow down; here we must adhere to the development processes that are in Europe. This is our opportunity for Europe to have together that position in development that we have had now. One sentence applied to the new Data Protection Regulation by the State Council. The Data Protection Authority says that this may be the biggest change in the law on privacy in 20 years. We see enough evidence here that much of what happened to the data protection regulation was a reaction to a completely misguided data storage directive, which perhaps one of the government parties – I will not take both of them for granted, because the Progress Party made a very brave effort – was much too, but that turned out to be a complete fallacy. Now we get a privacy regulation that is going to make a lot of demands on us, and that we have to work with in a proper way to get the good things into Norwegian law as well. So to the refugee situation. All the major challenges we face in Europe today are facing together, whether there are climate problems, the refugee situation or other challenges. Here we have to find solutions together. I think it is important that Europe should put together, that we should find solutions together and that we should share responsibility together. What amazes me a little bit in the government's attitude is the great optimism we find after the Bratislava conclusions. In my view, there is a step towards less integration and less sharing, while the government has a great optimism that the conclusions of those meetings will bring Europe far ahead. The last is an area I do not think I have included in an EEA assessment earlier, but that I want to raise in this debate. I believe that both the Nordic countries and Europe are becoming more important to Norway in the future of defence cooperation. If we get an American president who doesn't think it's important to stand up for Europe, much more of the Norwegian focus has to be linked to Nordic and European cooperation – whether I'm open to see if the new American president actually stands for what he has said through the election campaign. I agree with Liv Signe Navarsette in one thing: it wasn't just racism that was behind the brexit decision. The EU has been committed to agreeing on the small details, while they have had problems dealing with the major challenges we face. But the answer to that is no less cooperation, it's actually more cooperation. The United States and the United Kingdom with their two-party systems are showing more and more how the two-party system becomes a dysfunctional democracy where disagreements and frustrations do not come about through the political system. Then you finally make a pressure cooker, and when the lid snaps off, it is not a nice sight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e308	There were several interesting perspectives in the last article. I also thought it was in the distribution – and so far also in the debate before today. I thank the Council of State. To this morning, I wondered if I should criticize her for not taking the American election result sufficiently, but it might have been somewhat untimely when the deal came before the result. But I think we're at a time of change – perhaps stronger than ever since the wall fell and the cold war ended. I believe that all of us not only need to register it, but actually to take it over us and debate whether it should have greater implications for Norwegian policy and foreign policy than what we have put up to now. The changes we have now seen in the United States and in several European countries have differences, but perhaps also stronger common features. Firstly, it is obvious that we are in what I would call a crisis of inequality, with massive economic differences increasing. It happens in slightly different ways in the United States and Europe. In the United States, there is great economic growth, but a huge increase in inequality. The benefits are only a few. In many European countries, we have had a decade almost without economic growth and progress, but also an increase in inequality. Increased trade has open and demonstrable advantages in terms of increased economic growth. But it is also true that if you have a working life with too little regulation, weak trade unions and a tax system that does not provide income for well-being, it may soon be that ordinary workers lose massively on it. I think that's what happened in e.g. U.S.A. It has given growth, but no one benefits the majority of the population. The second is a very change in what society we are. Europe has gone from being a world of emigration to a world of immigration. Remember, we don't have to go back very many decades until we had a hundred years of massive emigration from Europe. In 1950, Norway was an almost completely white and Christian country. Many of the Western European countries in Europe were also quite homogeneous. It has gradually changed, and it will continue to change until we become diverse societies culturally and religiously. The way we handle it is extremely important. It has also opened up – as migration always has – a potential for conflict in itself. The third thing I think is a great crisis of trust directed at institutions and authorities of different kinds – most of the big ones that are far away. It applies both in the United States and in Europe. In the United States in 1960, trust in the authorities was as high as it was in Norway. In Norway, this trust has remained the same, but in the United States, he has shrunk in. There is no doubt that in American society the sum of polarization, colossal money interests and lack of trust created a crisis of confidence, but we see trends towards the same at European level. I think that brexit is also an expression for it. I think the sum of this is that we need to think through not just European policy, but in a broad way how we conduct a foreign policy to better value and interest. Norway is very different from what I and many speakers have described here, but what hits Europe finally hits Norway too. We're not immune. Finally, I want to challenge the government of one thing I don't think they've followed up well enough, that's what they did in the beginning of the period, about a more active European policy linked to the Storting. For the time being, they have met with several meetings in the European Selection Board – oral meetings without much preparation – we do not know what is going on, we get a review to ask questions and continue with the same statements. I think it is a very little satisfactory way to address major European policy issues. They themselves have opened up the possibility of submitting messages or brief cases to the Stortinget on Norwegian positions on important questions. It could be a way to get the Storting into just the big issues that we often discuss very sporadically from the Storting Speech. Will the European Minister follow up on what they themselves have put up to and warn early in this period, by raising major questions for the Stortinge as issues, where the Stortinge can discuss Norwegian positions in order to be more anchored when Norway goes to influence those processes in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e329	At a time when the environment, including the European Union and Europe, is changing rapidly, and where we and the continent face major challenges from more teams, it is particularly important that we take the time to debate Norwegian European policies thoroughly. I think that the contributions so far today have made the breadth of our EU cooperation visible, and I am grateful for both input and comments on the development and direction this policy should take. I would like to underline one of my main messages from the statement on Tuesday: A lot works well in the EU. Despite brexit, EU countries demonstrate both the will and ability to continue their efforts to find forward-looking and common solutions to current challenges related to refugees and migration, climate and energy, digitisation and regulatory simplification and security policies, including defence and counter-terrorism. I also feel that there is a clearer emphasis on the need for EU cooperation to be of benefit to citizens. Fortunately, the economy is improving in most countries, and the main picture is that European countries are integrating into an increasingly closer community in new areas. Europe remains a stable and peaceful continent. European cooperation helps to find solutions to the cross-border challenges facing the continent. We are close to developments in the EU, and we are seeking to influence the direction of European cooperation where we can. That is also why we want to strengthen Nordic European political cooperation under our Nordic Presidency until next year, so that we can make Nordic ideas and choices more visible in Brussels in areas of common interest with our Nordic neighbours. The digitalisation area is such an area. The EEA Agreement is the very bottom plan in our cooperation with the EU, and I am pleased that so many speakers have so clearly underlined the importance of that agreement. The EEA Agreement has served us and continues to serve us well. It ensures Norwegian business and citizens full participation in the internal market — perhaps more important than ever. The agreement gives Norwegian companies access to the European market under conditions similar to those of EU own companies. In particular, I have noticed Orkla's clear warning recently that cancelling the EEA Agreement is to risk playing with the Norwegian food industry. The NHO has been equally clear in its defence of the EEA Agreement, on behalf of the Norwegian business community in general. Nor should we forget that it is actually the EEA Agreement that ensures Norwegian citizens the opportunity to study, research, work and establish themselves freely throughout the EEA territory. These are the goods that many people now take for granted, but about which it is actually important to protect. The government is committed to ensuring functioning EEA cooperation even after Brexit. We want the same broad and good relationship with the United Kingdom as we do today. That is why we are constantly in contact with Brussels, London and other important European capitals to ensure that there is an understanding that we are not any third country, we are an EEA country, and that it is important that we are consulted in the negotiations now to be held between the United Kingdom and the European Union in areas relevant to the EEA and the internal market. All specialised departments in Norway are too busy to review their respective areas, in order to make it visible where we need to put in place new agreements on the day the United Kingdom is outside EU cooperation. It is fully possible to have this good dialogue without going into any agreement with the Norwegian interest. We have a large room for action for dialogue with the British, but we cannot, therefore, conduct regular negotiations on trade agreements until the British are out of the EU. That is quite clear in the EU Treaty. We have the opportunity, of course, to use the opportunity, together with our EFTA and EEA partners, to discuss and position ourselves in the dialogue that is important to us in the future. Finally, I just want to say to the representative of Navarsete: yes, it is right that Norway wants to cooperate with the EU in even more areas, and it is because we believe that it is in Norway's interest that we have a good and close cooperation with important allies in areas of great importance to Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e351	I gave the council a couple of challenges in my post that I feel she did not comment. She'll have another chance. One is how we deal with the forthcoming negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom. It probably starts once in April, I think, if the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom does as she has notified. In its statement, the Council of State spoke of the government’s active approach to the protection of Norwegian interests. Now she said that you remind the other countries that we want to be consulted, so there's some movement. But I still do not understand why the EFTA countries cannot contact the EU and ask to be part of the negotiations – whether it is exactly as an observer or what it is like, but you have to be at the table somehow. Why can't you make such a contact?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e359	I would like to stress that we are in close contact with the environment in Brussels, with those who are going to be negotiators, and with politicians, and we are using all diplomatic channels to be very clear about the interests of Norway and the other two EEA countries in EFTA. Feedback is also positive, it is recognised that these EEA countries are not just any third country, and that it is desirable to have consultation arrangements when it comes to negotiating. We have been very clear about this and also believe that the response we have received is uplifting in the sense that we will not be treated as any third country, but be among those consulted – something that will happen both from Brussels and from London.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e364	I feel like I'm getting the Council of State a little bit on the slip, so if we hold on a little bit more, then maybe she'll end up at the table – if not at the table, then at least in the chair at the back, and not at the hall. The second thing I mentioned is related to the upcoming climate agreement. This involves the two options: either a bilateral agreement or anchored in the EEA Agreement, which the Commission prefers. What difference will there be in practice between the two, mainly in terms of monitoring? I assume that Norway’s measures, i.e. Norway’s implementation of the agreement, will be monitored in the same way as EU countries will. What mechanisms, if any, do you have if there is disagreement? Is there a difference between the two options? And will ESA and the EFTA Court, as we know from the EEA Agreement, possibly be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e371	If the representative Svein Roald Hansen perceived that he got me on the slip, I hear that, but the point is that the government is incredibly concerned that we should take care of Norwegian interests in this area when it comes to negotiating between the United Kingdom and the EU. We use every option, and we've almost traveled in shuttle traffic both to London and to Brussels to make sure that we're being consulted, and that we've been made aware that we're not any third country. In the case of the climate agreement: We have notified Stortinget in wholesale communications that we want a bilateral agreement from the Norwegian side. Then the European Commission has replayed that it is more appropriate to use Protocol 31. Protocol 31 is a voluntary agreement outside the four freedoms and becomes exactly what we negotiate up to, what we agree on. Then the government has to consider what kind of agreement we think best takes care of the consideration we have to achieve with such an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e380	On 25 October, ESA opened proceedings against Norway on a breach of the Treaty in the so-called yardbag. The ESA believes that the travel, diet and lodging rules in the Norwegian Public Administration Regulations are contrary to the Posting Directive and the EEA Agreement’s terms and conditions for the free movement of services. At the European Committee meeting, the Council of State said that one has read the letter, one should reply to the letter – in a way one is satisfied with – so the Council of State said nothing. In the past, the Council of State and the Government have made it clear that one is determined by the fact that Norwegian Supreme Court rules Norwegian law. But I was insecure after hearing the answer from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, through the Council of State Elisabeth Vik Aspaker, in the European Committee. I would like to ask the Council of State: will one still stand firm by what our government and the Stortinge have in mind – what the Stortinge has been consulted on so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e389	It is correct that ESA sent the so-called opening letter to Norway on 25 October. What is also correct, and as I pointed out in the European Committee of the Stortinges, is that when one receives such a letter and has a reply deadline, the government will naturally assess it and answer it within the deadline. Besides that, I have no comment on the matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e394	In the past, the government has been very clear on this matter. It's a shift from ESA's opening of the treaty issue and what we've made clear from the government before, that one stands by what has been the Norwegian view. For this reason, I would simply like to ask one more time: is it such that one can still conclude that Norway is in the position of the government, and what has also been consulted by the Storting? We're not consulted about a change of opinion. Can the State Council simply confirm that one is going to stand up for what the Supreme Court has decided, and ensure that Norwegian Supreme Court actually has the image that most people in Norway would think that Norwegian Supreme Court should have over Norwegian law and regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e399	I refer to the opening letter that has arrived, that there is a process to this, and that the government will respond within the time limit set by ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e404	The representative of Navarsete did not get a long answer. I want a really long answer because I think it was a little dirty about privacy in the presentation. Here we are going to make a legislative change that according to the Data Protection Authority is the largest in 20 years, for privacy in Norway, and the Council of State mentioned it with one sentence. Now she's going to have the opportunity to spend a whole minute on it!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e414	There is little doubt that the privacy area is an important area, to which the government also attaches great importance. We need to come back and explain in an appropriate way how we are to take care of the concerns related to privacy in Norwegian legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e418	I think I can assure the representative Skei Grande that this is an area we do not take lightly, and that we are going to follow up to the absolute best of our ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e421	I thought maybe it was a little doubtful that the Council of State simply could not answer anything about the content of the questions from Skei Grande, other than that it is serious, and that one should come back to it. But I'll ask you another thing that I mentioned in my post, so I don't have to draw the whole reasoning. The government has previously opened up so that it could be possible – the previous European Minister expressed it here in the Chamber and elsewhere – to present issues to the Stortinge when it comes to particularly important and large processes in the EU, where one could discuss Norwegian positions at an early stage in order to get them anchored in the Stortinge. As far as I'm concerned, a mass accumulation was very positive to that idea, precisely because it could give more concrete debate anchoring here of some of the big processes, dragging us in earlier. But I feel that the distribution here and the meeting in the European Selection will be very springy and difficult to use as anchoring – and with little in writing in advance. Will the Council of State apply this to large processes where it is important that Norway fights for its interests and that there is a anchor in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e428	It is a dilemma that clarification of Norwegian positions, how to design Norwegian policies, are largely carried out through peer-to-peer reviews. In fact, we have assessed and examined whether it is possible for me, as the European Minister, to take things out of such a more specialized departmental context. It has proved to be quite demanding or difficult, and that is the background to the way we are consulting the European Committee today; that is the way we have found it most appropriate. There, the specialist councils meet in areas of interest. As regards the energy sector in particular, which was referred to by another representative, it has been announced that the government will come back with a communication related to the major changes, the proposals to be submitted by the Commission before Christmas, concerning the Energy Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e439	For most of us, if not all, post-war stability is the only reality we know. In my opinion, this is due to the many institutions that emerged in the wake of World War II. We have NATO, which is responsible for our security policy, and the European Union, which takes care of the economic part. In addition, we have the Council of Europe, we have the OECD, we have the UN, of course, and we have the WTO. We still have institutions, but they're being challenged. Paradoxically, it is possible to say that many of the changes are due to the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. It was the great breach of stability, really, after World War II -- very positive of course, but seeing the consequences of major obvious historical events in their own time is an impossibility. After 1989, many asked themselves the question of continued eligibility for existence for NATO. Today we see that we need NATO, and that Russia is different than many in Europe wanted and hoped. Europe was united after 1989 thanks to the EU. Enlargement to the east was correct and important, and our contribution is the EEA funds – quite large funds transferred to the countries of south-east Europe. This has led to economic growth and prosperity across Europe, including in our country because of high levels of labour migration, which we need. However, the fact that this would indirectly lead to Brexit, that the United Kingdom left the EU, was few who were able to predict. Then I think in particular of the resistance to labour immigration that we saw in the United Kingdom, which probably led to many voting for Brexit. We're going into a period of more instability. What brexit will lead to, and what will lead to in the United States, there are many who trace. I believe that the only sure thing to say is that it leads to more instability and more unforeseeability in the coming years. The answer is stronger institutions. Therefore, further EEA-linkage for Norway is essential and it is important that the EU operates as well as possible for Norwegian interests. But these political upheavals are also about the collapse of foreign and domestic policies. Globalisation itself has never been adopted as such in a national parliament, but it has consequences that are tangling up to something that is of course important: the fact that it leads to more trade is good, but at the same time it also leads people to feel that they are losing their job because of it. Therefore, labour immigration became a theme in the United Kingdom, and therefore trade agreements have become a theme of the United States elections. Trade policy is therefore becoming more and more a matter of concern not only to the NHO and a few others in particular. It concerns all of us. What's going to happen to the big trade deals is probably going to change after what's happened since Tuesday. Some of the things that were said in the statement on Tuesday may no longer apply. Nevertheless, I would like to comment a little on what was said by Vik Aspaker about the possible connection for Norway to the TTIP. The report from the NUPI points to certain economic gains in case we sign up to such an agreement, with all sorts of reservations because there is no agreement yet. But it also shows that it will affect our sovereignty, probably to a greater extent than EEA membership. That is exactly what I think is important to have as moments in the future possible debate, in case there would be an agreement between the United States and the EU. That's why it's also important to record the recordings from the Storting now that we have to look at the work around this particular thing, so that we get a democratic anchoring. The Labour Party believes that increased trade is good, especially if fair, and that is what these trade agreements should ensure. But they must also be democratically anchored, and they must be supported by ordinary people. That requires that we have a good distribution policy that ensures that growth is distributed. We must have a tax system that ensures distribution and prevents poverty. We have to make sure that jobs are actually created, and not that they are used as a false argument, and we have to ensure decent pay. We have to prevent social dumping, and we have to make sure that people have a salary they can live on. Then it is and becomes what former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland said: everything is related to everything. But for a small country like Norway, a well-organised world with strong institutions is important, not least in the time we are about to enter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e460	Those of us who enjoy participating in the Nordic Council on behalf of Stortinget have been able to see, in the last few years, how the Nordic countries and the political environments have become increasingly united. Of course, this also applies to the Nordic Council, where a sample of parliamentarians are involved. I thought I'd start with the joyous thing, because there are so many divisive trends, but it looks like the North is more coordinating and concording with what they say. Then we have to recognise that the main driving force for this is that the five Nordic states have developed a common policy in the light of the fact that they have also clarified treaty-based relations with the European Union. The five Nordic countries are linked to the EU either as a fully participating Member State, such as Denmark, Sweden and Finland, the latter also as participants in the single currency, or as Norway and Iceland, which have secured somewhat close full membership of economic cooperation. But more than this: Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, is part of the development of EU law through both directives and regulations, and it is this joint development of the formation of justice that also brings together the Nordic countries. So it's a little surprising that those who are now starting to play the EEA Agreement, usually don't have anything against Nordic cooperation – at least I haven't registered it – but they should be aware that with it they also distance themselves from our other Nordic neighbouring countries. During the Brexit debate in the United Kingdom, references to Nordic cooperation could, with some wonder, be seen as an alternative to membership. But the Nordic countries have just developed and established their cooperation, because we have a clear relationship with the EU, and because much of the dynamics that make countries converge are just part of general European cooperation. That is why we need to listen very critically to the demands now that Norway is going ahead in order to negotiate some form of free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. I think this has to be based on the fact that you don't have any knowledge of which works of agreement have to be clarified, and which order is therefore also logically consequential. Of course, it is in Norway's interest to have the best possible cooperation with the United Kingdom, no matter what kind of alienation the country chooses, and we need a new agency to replace when the United Kingdom leaves the EU in two or three years. If we don't want customs barriers. On the other hand, it will not be possible for the UK to negotiate agreements with other countries until they have established their own relationship with the EU. In the meantime, we must not risk or doubt our own EEA agreement. In any case, a free trade agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom will remove Norway from the close, well-informed cooperation we have with the United Kingdom today through our relationship with the EEA Agreement. A subsequent agreement with the United Kingdom will not contain the elements with Norway that the United Kingdom actively chooses in its contractual relationship with the EU. We will no longer be linked to joint monitoring mechanisms and courts, and that will make for greater unforeseeability than today. The UK government has made it clear that the UK will not be in favour of solutions involving the free movement of persons from the EU and that it will not accept EU courts and will not introduce common rules in the future. All of this is a breach of prerequisites for being part of the internal market. The country is heading towards a weaker connection to the internal market, and then we would of course have discovered the difference between a free trade agreement, which can give access to selling some products, and being integrated into a single market, which means that you can be fully involved at all levels. The great advantage of the EEA is that it provides a level playing field so that goods and services can be freely sold, and it is particularly important for a small country like Norway, with such an open economy as the Norwegian one. I have noticed that there are some people who believe that the Norwegian relationship is bilateral – yes, of course we have bilateral relations with the United Kingdom, but it is within the framework of a multilateral agreement that we have through the EEA Agreement, that is, EFTA, because we are a member as an EFTA country. So many of the negotiations also need to clarify what the EFTA contractual structure will look like as a result of the UK’s liberalisation negotiations with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e477	First of all, I would like to thank the EEA Minister and the EU Minister for a very good and useful presentation on current and important EEA and EU issues. There were many important issues that the Council of State mentioned. This was about two days ago. In the meantime, as several others today have pointed out and mentioned, it has been presidential elections in the United States, which may affect future free trade agreements. Nevertheless, just as there were many doomsday prophecies before the referendum in the United Kingdom on brexit, neither has it, to put it mildly, lacked judgment-day prophecies if the people of the United States chose Donald Trump as president. I'm not pessimistic. On the contrary, I believe in the many elected congressmen and senators and in the elected president of the United States. In the case of brexit, there were very many, especially Norwegian politicians, Norwegian journalists and so-called experts, who, before the referendum, were sure that it would not happen, and that if it did, most things would go wrong. They were wrong about what the outcome was, and so far we have not seen all the evil that was going to happen. On the contrary, the United Kingdom has been better off after the referendum in many ways. While the pound has been hard hit, for the UK export industry it has been largely positive, and it has been positive in terms of increasing tourism to the United Kingdom. The economy of the United Kingdom has strengthened. Most people and businesses also see opportunities. Many feared consequences, and some still do so, both for the United Kingdom, for the EU and for Norway. But there is little to suggest that European cooperation will be paralysed and will become worse. As the Council of State also pointed out, history has shown that Europe can be strengthened by crises. Yes, crisis means opportunities! I believe and hope that the government and the Great Britain have the goal that we get an even better relationship with the United Kingdom after Brexit than what we have had, and what we have today. The same with the EU: what has happened challenges us politicians to think new. How can things be done better? And, at least, is the agreement we have with the EU today optimal? Brexit gave a wake-up call to all of us: the EU needs to change. The 27 remaining countries in the EU must reform the EU. If I am not sure that more EU countries will follow the example of the United Kingdom. Most people don't feel that the European Union is for them, and most people don't see the big benefits. The same applies to Norway’s EEA membership. There is no doubt that there has been a dream for Norwegian businesses and very good for Norway. At the same time, the EEA Agreement is challenging in many ways, especially in terms of democracy and self-determination, and not least in terms of social security exports. I also feel that many Nordics, especially after Brexit, put more question marks with the agreement we have. There's something we elected people have to take seriously, and we have to be better at communicating what the agreement means to Norway and the Nordics. It is very important to have a good relationship with the United Kingdom, a country to which we have long and good historical ties. I understand that the British Government, in meetings with Prime Minister Solberg, Minister for Industry, Mæland, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Brende and EEA and EU Minister Vik Aspaker, has called for a good bilateral solution between Norway and the United Kingdom, that the British already want an even deeper and stronger relationship, and that the British want and have asked for closer dialogue than they have today. I think that's good news, and I think this government should accept this proposal with open arms. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has set up an internal working group at the level of the Office to follow the Brexit negotiations and identify how these would affect Norwegian interests. That's very good. But at the same time, I read that the Swedish government has recently asked for three external investigations on brexit. They will look at possible alternative solutions for Sweden’s trade relations with the United Kingdom and at strategies to attract investment to Sweden. I also hope the Norwegian government will do that, especially looking at strategies for attracting investors to Norway. It will be a very good follow-up to the business plan that the government presented last autumn, i.e. that foreign investors prefer Norway to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e494	In line with the previous speeches, I would like to thank you for a good presentation and for a Council of State that remains calm in what may begin to look like a rather complicated situation. Norway is in transition, we've discussed that a lot. The oil does not have the same drive as before, and the jobs that disappear have a value creation of between 10 and 12 million. kr per workplace. The jobs that we're going to replace, or the new ones that we're going to create, are not created behind customs walls. Trade is the very foundation of our well-being, and Norway is, like a small country in the world, especially worthy of us moving towards an even freer world and a more open world – just so it's clear. And then we see what happens abroad. Brexit is a major challenge. But – as the government also points out: Where does the United Kingdom go? What do they want? What does the EU want? How are we going to deal with this situation? There are many more questions here than there are so far. A few days ago, we got the election in the United States, which created further uncertainty. I believe that in this area, too, we should remain calm. You don't win elections in the United States on foreign policy. I've lived in the United States myself for five years, so I know the country well. At the same time, the United States knows what trade means as a driving force for integrating a world and for creating a more open world, so I have strong faith that any president who comes into office in the United States adopts the desire for a more integrated world, and thereby also safer. I think we should give the new administration time, when it enters the offices in January, to figure out which direction it actually wants to go. And let's cross our fingers so that they continue on a path towards a more open world, and that the United States is a driving force against good standards. At the same time, we have to assume that there are currents out there in the population that require the construction of the free trade of the future in the light that there are some biases, that there are some challenges in how the benefits of global trade have been distributed. But the basic thing is that in the last 15-20 years, large parts of the world's population have been lifted out of poverty through trade, and in that light, I find it strange that the Central Party chooses to mark the EEA agreement as having to be renegotiated. Because when the crime lakes come, as it is enough of us now, you don't incubate even more in the boat. And if not the Center Party will listen to the bulk of the population, I would have hoped that they would at least listen to the food and beverage industry. Håkon Mageli in Orkla was out with a strong warning in a two-sided look-up in the nation a few days ago, saying that it is naive to believe that Norway can get a better deal than the EEA Agreement. He's calling it a daring game. So this is an industry that benefits from a very special construction called RIKE. It is a design that allows the maintenance of a competitive Norwegian food industry in the Norwegian agricultural sector. If someone should be interested in it, it's the Center Party. If the Central Party had gone in and analysed and asked itself if the United Kingdom had the same interest as Norway in creating a ROK industry, I think the answer would have turned out to be a very blatant no. So Mageli meets very well in calling this a daunting game that puts national interests at stake, just to make sure that the Central Party shows that they are against the EU. We must accept that in the debate, but I find it very special that you go so hard on your own interests. I hope that the government will remain calm and follow very closely, as they have repeatedly said: follow the situation and position Norway as best they can. Then we take care of the Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e509	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e514	I think previous speakers had a very good point when he talked about how important trade is to our well-being. I want to add how important trade is to our security. When we know what the EU is all about – that countries dealing with each other do not fight with each other – I also think it is an important perspective to take into account in the debate we now have. In its statement, the Council of State referred to the last six months as being rigorous for the EU and Europe. I totally agree with her. She also stressed the importance of brexit in her presentation and the implications it will have for Europe are understandable. Today's debate in the Chamber has also been marked, so I'm not going to spend that much time on it. It is very important for us to have respect for people's choices, both in the United States this day and not least in the United Kingdom's no to the EU. I personally find it a pity that the European internal market is breaking up and becoming smaller. I want to focus on another point that was raised in the presentation. I'm a real Northman, born with a shin lua far down the ears. In this perspective, it is interesting to record the focus of the northern regions and the Arctic in international policy. The EU's follow-up to its own Arctic policy is both exciting and interesting. When we read the draft joint report, we see that the EU emphasises the Arctic as a geographical area governed by international law and agreements, including international law and maritime law. It just had to be missing that it shouldn't be. I am very happy that you focus on the important job Arctic Council has in this regard. It is important that the EU also calls for increased resources for research and infrastructure in its Arctic Communication. I know Norway is following up there, but it is very important that the EU also has that perspective. For those of us who live in the north, I would like to stress the importance and not least the importance of extensive people-to-people cooperation between the peoples who live in the north. It means once again that our relationship with Russia is important. People-to-people cooperation in the north shows that good and predictable forms of cooperation can be developed in all areas if you show a willingness to meet face to face. The keyword here is dialogue with our neighbours in the north. It should not only be expected to take place at regional level but to a much greater extent at national level. In any case, if it exists, it is well hidden from the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e527	The left side of Norwegian policy, with the Central Party at the head, has recently created considerable uncertainty as to whether our cooperation agreement with the EU, the EEA Agreement, will survive any government change in 2017. If Norway were to seek to scrap away our most important, deepest and most comprehensive international trade agreement, it would mean much more difficult times for workers, among other things. in Rogaland, who may have experienced our greatest crisis since World War II in the field of the labour market. In economically turbulent times in the South West, our access to the European market is more important than ever. On a daily basis, farmers, fishermen along the coast and the rest of Norwegian seafood feed are exporting more than 23 million seafood meals from Norway to the EU. Norwegian energy fighters such as Statoil and Gassco ensure that oil and gas are produced and delivered to European customers. Over 80 pst. of what we sell, goes to Europe, while 65 pst. of what we buy comes from Europe. Students from the University of Stavanger travel on exchange to European countries such as Denmark, France and Spain, while European students come here. These are thousands of workplaces, value creation and cultural and student exchanges with which the Left Party and the Centre play when they now want to scrap today's EEA Agreement. To the right, it is not appropriate to play a game of international agreements that are safe and give Norway and the Nordics the opportunity to trade with Europe, invest in Europe, take work, study and live in Europe. Only from my county, Rogaland, this year, 1355 young adults have travelled to Europe to take all or part of their education there. Nationally, we're talking about 14,000 young Nordics leaving and getting international experience in this way. Right will do something about our relationship to Europe. The need for cooperation and cohesion is obvious. Pure national solutions are short when we are faced with the threat of terrorism, when we are faced with common rules in foreign and security policy, and when we are about to undergo a difficult transition. We are going to stand up for the EEA Agreement, not because it is perfect, but because it is involved in creating new Norwegian jobs – in Rogaland and throughout Norway. If the forces that want us out of the EEA win, it becomes Norway's brexit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e538	We are in our fourth year with our own EU and EEA ministers. We've been a little excited about how that would work. We saw the reactions after Brexit. It was a very sad reaction from the government, from the Minister for EU and EEA Affairs. Based on the way she acted on behalf of the government this week and months after Brexit, we have confirmed our hypothesis: that Norway’s EU and EEA Minister has become the EU Minister of State in the Norwegian debate. We have not seen any government that has been more of a defender of European interests in Europe than the Norwegian government. Prior to Brexit, the Prime Minister and the Council of State decided to warn the British people against doing the same thing as the Norwegian people. What is the role of the Norwegian government, that when the largest export market in Europe leaves the EU, the Norwegian government chooses to complain actively and to act as a counterpart to the new government of the United Kingdom? I think it's amazing that it's the role of a Norwegian Council of States to always appear to be the strongest defender of a union that we ourselves are not in, in which the Norwegian people have fortunately said no to twice. The right should also be pleased that their own Prime Minister has not been able to see Norway joining the euro, as she wrote many speeches about around 2005, because she felt it was a giant plan. Thanks to the Norwegian people for our own currency, we have our own freedom – it has been a success for our export industry, a success for our country. Then there's another thing that I think is very strange in this debate, and it's that you don't see that it's new reality. Many people discuss the EEA Agreement as if it were real in 2005 or 2013. The point is that there will be a larger international trade agreement in Europe than the EEA Agreement is, between the United Kingdom and the EU. Then, as a country, we have to look at what opportunities it offers, and of course what problems it poses. To date, the Right Party and the Labour Party seem to be only concerned about the problems in this debate, but as a small country, we need to see to our closest friends whether this can provide new opportunities, whether it can ensure our national interests better – and not conclude everything in advance. That is the main problem with the government's approach to Brexit, that you just focus on the problems and don't respect the fact that there are also many opportunities here, and don't respect the fact that the British people have seen the problems of EU membership. So I encourage the Council of States, I encourage the government to be a little bit more open and not just focus on the problems, but also see the opportunities in the processes that are now going on in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e553	The North and Arctic regions have been shown to pay greater attention to the EU, and in April a joint communication entitled ‘An integrated EU policy for the Arctic region’ was presented. Norway has always had good dialogue with the EU Member States and institutions. For Norway, cooperation with the EU is important to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the northern sea areas and that management is consistent with Norwegian interests. Norway's position is that EU Arctic policy must be enshrined in international law and that the legal framework for the Arctic Ocean is the law of the sea. Norway also has a high interest in the development of climate, environment and research in the Arctic, and the EU is an important partner through EU programmes and investments in the north. Several of these support cross-border cooperation, including Russia. For Norway, it is important that Arctic Councils be promoted as the main body for cooperation in the region, where Norway participates as one of eight Arctic States. The formalisation of an EU observer status and the active participation of the EU in the Arctic Council working group provide Norway with an even closer cooperation and a greater impact on the design of Arctic policies. It is important to have a good dialogue at many levels and in different sectors in order to achieve maximum understanding of Norwegian key priorities. In some areas, such as: on the issue of the management of the northern seas, the EU communication on the Arctic shows that more Member States have a different approach to some issues than Norway, with a more focused focus on protection than on the sustainable use of resources. Formulating on the lack of regulation of activities in the Arctic and on the potential for increased tension due to conflicts about natural resources creates an image that we from Norway think is little fertile. Norway’s cooperation with the EU is comprehensive and good, and we will continue to work to ensure the optimum protection of the Arctic in terms of both climate and marine resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e571	We see a development in Europe where protectionism and isolationism are given greater and greater space. In too many countries, especially right-wing extremes have, in my view, become too large a foothold. I missed more of this discussion in the Council of State's presentation, although she so far touched Turkey in her post. From the Norwegian side, we have rightly criticised the human rights situation in Russia, and this criticism has been clear and marked against Russian authorities. But I think what's about to happen in Turkey, must well get so much space in the public vocabulary. We note that President Erdogan does not care about the harsh criticism that has come against Turkey after last week the parliamentarians and the party leadership of the Pro-Kurdish opposition party, KDP, were imprisoned. I think the Council of State was probably a little spat in its criticism of Turkey in its presentation, especially in the light of the fact that the country wants membership of the EU. Being part of Europe is about a common identity related to fundamental values such as freedom, solidarity and cooperation – important words that I embrace. This is why it is important to stand up for the fight for established rules and for inter-state interaction when challenged. Just as the Council of State was involved in the presentation, I am also concerned that our core values for modern Europe are being challenged in today's Europe. International law, violent extremism, xenophobia and intolerance are words that go on. There'll be a lot of 'we' and 'they' in these words. This weekend I visited the extermination camps Auschwitz and Birkenau in Poland. It made a strong impression just being there as a tourist. The thoughts go to the millions of people who faced a certain death, because they happened to belong to another ethnic group or had a different political thinking. They had to give their lives because they were 'the ones'. Europe is not in any way there today. But what happened in Germany in the 1930s began to find scapegoats for all the crazy things in society. The story can be repeated if we sit still without saying anything. It was also the guide's final words: Get out of here and tell the story of the fearsome thing that happened in the gas chambers, and the inhumane conditions in the camps. That's what I'm supposed to do from this pulpit today. Many criticise Norway for using its EEA funds in other countries. However, when these funds are used to strengthen civil society in the recipient countries, with particular emphasis on promoting human rights, freedom of expression and the protection of human rights defenders and minorities, this money – from that perspective – contributes to a safer Europe, and is thus a good investment in my and your security.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e586	Today's press image is full of messages about a country far west of us that now appears to be a divided country. That is why today we should be inspired by the 800 delegates from all over Europe who gathered at a convention in the city of The Hague in 1948. They discussed the possibilities for cross-border political cooperation. One of the results was the creation of a new Europe and only ten years later the European Community, as we know today as the EU. We should also ask ourselves today how the political leaders of the Second World War were able to build trust across the borders of the nation states. And then we should all in this room feel heavy responsibility for continuing to work in that spirit. As also the EEA Minister and EU Minister put it in this Chamber, we need more and no less cooperation in Europe. It was a very broad and good presentation provided by the Council of States, which also drew up a number of challenges that lie both behind and before the EU and Europe. I mention one of these. Schengen and Dublin cooperation are under pressure. It is almost not necessary to even say that it is necessary to find pan-European solutions to the migration challenges. Like the EU, Norway has an interest in ensuring a well-functioning European asylum system, which is sustainable, ensuring a more equitable distribution of asylum seekers and preventing undesirable secondary movements. Then we know that the temporary personal checks on the internal border will expire on 11 November 2016. I agree with the government – yes, both spring, Sweden, Denmark and Germany – that it needs to be extended, because the refugee situation is still challenging for Europe, and I expect the Council to adopt the Commission's recommendation to extend it until February 2017. The flow of escape has not changed in size, but only in direction. It is important that Europe now together find distribution keys to relieve countries under disproportionate pressure, and Europe must also provide protection to those who need it. Norway has received considerable recognition from Frontex for its participation in the joint operations of Triton and Poseidon in the Mediterranean with the ships ‘Siem Pilot’ and the rescue boat ‘Peter Henry von Koss’, and we thank the Norwegian police, but also our people from the Defence on board, for the valuable work they have done. Norway takes responsibility and both these contributions continue in 2017. Migration and integration are the major political, social and economic challenges of our time. A wide-ranging Nordic cooperation programme for integration is now being launched, and we also have common interests in the Nordic region. That's why the three pillars of our in-depth presidency in Nordic cooperation are so right and important: the Nordics in transition, the Nordics in Europe and the Nordics in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e599	It is a picture from the EU debate in the United Kingdom that has literally got stuck on the Internet, namely the video of the masked EU and immigration opponent who tried to light up an EU flag in protest. It was rather a failure to meet the EU regulation on combustible materials. There were enough people who thought that Telenor and Telia provided cheaper mobile bills in Europe this summer, but also because of EU regulation, and over the years the EEA Agreement has been in force, consumer rights and standards have been raised and harmonised – and vice versa. The 2012 European Survey concluded that Norway’s participation in the EU internal market has had a positive impact through the EEA Agreement on cross-border economic activity, trade, investment and labour migration, as well as on national economic regulation and industrial policy. The EEA Agreement has provided us with access to the market that receives around 80 pst. of Norwegian exports. The agreement has contributed directly to economic growth, increased employment and increased purchasing power. But it is not just access to the market that has been important. Free movement of labour means greater opportunities for individuals, who are given the opportunity to use their labour force where necessary. It also means that countries in need of labour do not stagnate in the lack of workable hands and heads. In the years following the financial crisis, from 2008 to 2014, a total of 260 000 EEA citizens were employed in Norway, which helped to keep the activity up in the Norwegian economy, but perhaps more importantly, 260 000 people could support themselves and their families through work rather than going unemployed in their home country. The free movement of labour, goods and services has served the Norwegian economy very well. We must now ensure that it does so in the future too, because it is scary to take advantage of the agreement for granted and only problematize about the challenges. The positive effects of globalisation, where technology and trade contribute to development and economic growth, can lead, without political will, to a certain degree of redistribution, to the exclusion of many people. It's a national task to make sure this doesn't happen. National populism we are looking for is a sign of internal political failure and disclaimer of challenges that, quite rightly, can be attributed to globalisation, but the answer is not closed borders and protectionism, but increased commitment to knowledge, innovation and competitiveness, which contribute to a growth that we must make political promises to all. One would think that we had learned to recognize dangerous traits in our recent history, but unfortunately we tend to repeat our ancestors' mistakes. The EEA Agreement links us not only to our most important market, but also to our most important community of values. The greatest challenges of our time — including economic growth, climate and migration — cannot be solved without committed international cooperation. This is not the time to doubt our main trade cooperation, and I am very pleased that the government is so clear on this. This suggests that they have support in this room, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e610	It was the post of the two central party representatives, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum and Mr. Navarsete, that made me take the floor again. I think we just have to admit that the United Kingdom needs to go through complex and, in part, very time consuming processes to clarify its relationship with the EU, if they then want to replace EU membership with a free trade agreement. When the Central Party joins in negotiating a new agreement with the United Kingdom, it is a complete adventure policy. Neither the EU nor the United Kingdom can involve Norway in the negotiations, nor can Norway itself say that they should participate as their own country. I think it is time to remember that our relationship with the internal market is regulated by our participation in EFTA, that we are part of an EFTA contract structure, and that it is EFTA that will then have to look at its contractual relationship in the light of the changed contractual relationship that will occur if it becomes so that the United Kingdom withdraws from the EU. And so, if you recognise these very basic prerequisites for international treaty accession and compliance and possibly the conclusion of the treaty, it also says something about Norway's place in that process. And I can't hide the fact that Liv Signe Navarsete's posts in particular were the embodiment of a mischievous mischief over the election results in the United States – I might not only say that it was a joy, but also an obvious joy. There are many who have recently signed up to be interpreters of that election result, but I see that this election result gives rise to clear joy in the Centre Party, at a time when division is what threatens cohesion in Europe and also in the West. I'm just noticing it. I also believe that it is on the edge of the intellectually honest when you stand up and say that we have said no to EU membership twice, as the representative of Mr Schlagsvold Vedum did, and then refers to the Norwegian export success. But it is precisely because we have an EEA agreement that saved our financial interests by having full membership, except that we do not participate in the political processes. That's where you wanted to sign out – that's what we've been living with. But the export success we have is precisely because we've had market access, because we've secured our own business by having an open access to participate in the liberal economy of world trade. And it's these assumptions that the isolationists -- who have got a face here today -- are now going to attack.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e621	When the previous representative claims that I had been ‘hidden away from harm’, I can, of course, characterize his post as being rather poorly hidden from bitterness that Norwegian society is still outside EU cooperation. It is well known that in EFTA several countries were ready to send letters to the United Kingdom after Brexit. When you're busy with facts on the table, you get to include them too. Norway blocked it. It is wrong that this representative has a lot of pleasure for the result, but unlike most people who have had the word here, who refuse to accept that the growing differences are the cause of the unrest, it is not just the Navarsette who sees it. A lot of people around us are analysing the cause. Of course, this is a composite image, but one reason is that the working class feels that their everyday lives are not better. They see wealth and growth. It is claimed that the cause of the loss in Ohio and Pennsylvania may be related to the NAFTA agreement, which resulted in the loss of thousands of jobs in industry. I don't know. I have no loss of happiness, but I actually dare to ask questions about the underlying reasons. And it's pretty interesting to sit and sit right in the plural in this hall, which celebrates trade agreements, but which refuses to take on the fact that there are a lot of people who have got a worse development just because of the same agreements. I have not said that it is just wrong. We're going to have a trade, but it's going to have to have a little bit of an open mind when it's a look around. The right – and perhaps still will – wanted Norway to join the euro area. There is, of course, the difference between EU and EEA membership. We can control our own economy, we can impose counter-cyclical measures, we can set interest rates up and down, but we see how dysfunctional that cooperation is in too many countries in the eurozone and in the EU. There are also a lot of people living in the EU. We're not the only ones who see it. I was actually going to talk more about yard business, because I thought it was alarming that the Council of State wouldn't say if the government was standing by what they had done. They sent letters to ESA, it is pointed out that it is for the Member States to determine the content of the ‘minsteløn’, and that it is argued that coverage of travel, diet and lodging must be seen as part of the minimum wage in Norway. Norwegian authorities have shown that public spending on just travel, diet and lodging is necessary for reasons of public order and tranquillity in the workplace – and the EU says that there is no reason. No, we see in some EU countries that there should perhaps be a reason – too many countries – to take order and order and order in the workplace a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e636	Only a few comments at the end of a debate that has shown that the EEA Agreement is under way. And I can assure the representative of Stensland that the EEA Agreement will also survive the government change in 2017. The representative Battle Violence Vedum pointed out that we are facing a new reality – Brexit, a possible TTIP agreement between the United States and the EU – and that we must then look at opportunities, not problems, and how we can better safeguard national interests. Yes, but what's missing from the Center Party is, what do they mean by a better deal? What is a better agreement in relation to the EEA Agreement? On which points is another agreement to be improved? It would have been useful to get defined in terms of the debate. The representative Jørund Rytman said that things haven't gone so well with the British economy after Brexit. No, but they are still in the EU! The major problem for the United Kingdom is: when they are out of the EU, they have no toll lines that are agreed in the WTO. They must begin there and propose toll lines that all the 162 countries of the WTO must accept. If they're lucky, they can take a copy of what the EU has, but it's not given. So they're going to start negotiating free trade agreements. So in the meantime, they're going to have a customs barrier. We'll see how it works. We get hope that doesn't mean that the British economy is going down, because none of us are worthy of it, but the problems are likely to arise then. So you have to negotiate free trade agreements, it took Canada and the EU seven years – between two parties where it should be reasonably easy to negotiate and agree. Then I agree with the representative, Bård Vegar Solhjell, who called for the government to launch it as a European message. I do not fully understand the Council of State's explanation that there is a problem between the Councils of State and the Minister of Europe. A Europe message that focuses on analysing how, for example: The Energy Union will have an impact on Norwegian policy, as it can be promoted by a specialist Council. Tetzschner pointed to Nordic cooperation. I have often wondered that in the case of Nordic cooperation, there are almost no limits to how far one is willing to go in order to plan down frontier barriers – far into fiscal policy, in family policy, in social policy. It is good, but if you go a little south of Denmark, almost any harmonisation is a big problem. Steps Skei Grande pointed to something I would like to stress: all the major challenges in Europe must be resolved together, and we must take responsibility for them together.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e651	I would like to thank you for a good debate and good speeches, but it is also clear that there are clear dividing lines in the case of a party that is very clear that one will do exactly what Orkla has warned against, play the risk of food industry and industry in Norway that need market access to the EU desperately. Many articles have stressed the importance of both the Nordic countries and Europe, and perhaps it is particularly important in these days that what can be fixed points in life continues to be so. How we might be affected by the election that has been in the United States, we don't know, because we don't know anything about the policy of the new Trump administration yet. But what we know is that we have a good, close and close cooperation with the European Union, which is very important for us to develop further. It is therefore the interests of Norway and Norway that are the prime task of the government, and we believe that this is done by further developing and building on the cooperation we have with the European Union today. To the representative of Solhjell, I would like to stress that when the new Roadmap Communication on Norwegian foreign policy comes to the Stortinget in spring, it will have a heavy European political dimension, which will allow the discussion of central European issues by that crossroads as well. Marianne Aasen is quite right that there is uncertainty about the TTIP agreement after the US elections, about when it may be completed. Norway has clearly stated to both parties that third countries should be allowed to join. We have recently received a NUPI report that has provided us with a good basis for assessing what kind of road choices can be possible for Norway if and when the agreement looks at today’s light. But I can't help myself: the centre party is now continuing its crusade against the EEA Agreement. I'm wondering about the interests of who the Center Party thinks they're looking after. This is not Norwegian interest. It is not the interests of Norwegian business. It is not the interests of Norwegian researchers. It's not Norwegian students' interests. There are no interests of Norwegian workers wishing to work in EU countries, within the four freedoms to which the EEA Agreement applies, to be safeguarded. So you are at a collision course with what is vital to Norwegian business, and what gives us access to our most important market – and which in turn helps us to take care of and further develop Norwegian welfare. So I don't stop wondering about the role the Center Party has taken on in this matter. To Kåre Simensen, I just want to say that, through the EEA funds, Norway is just helping to support civil society, to promote democracy and human rights. We have 15 major cooperation countries in Europe where this is a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e666	I would like to comment on an important EU issue on possible changes to EU regulations for the binding of CO 2 in forests. Today's Business had two weekends about this yesterday. The message was that changes to EU provisions could lead to a Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions of CO 2 being estimated to be 1.5 million tonnes higher since the importance of the forest’s CO 2 binding is to be reduced. I have to say that I find this slightly strange, because the fact is that the use of both wood and forest binds CO 2. Such a down-priority of forest importance in CO 2 accounting will be dramatic for Norway, and as the State Council of Helgesen itself expresses it in today's industry, this will have significant consequences for Norway. It is signaled that the main parts of these new cuts must be taken in the transport sector, and again the car it is pointed to. As a road policy and car policy spokesman for the Progress Party, I think this is very unfortunate, and I would like to remind you that the positive grips of the Right-Fremskrit Party government have already taken place, in fact, have produced very good results. In 2014, to use that reference year, just two years ago, the average CO 2 emissions from new cars were 110 grams. The climate agreement in Stortinget has an ambition of an average of only 85 grams in 2020. Already now the government's grip has led to emissions of only 88 grams. And in 2017, three years before what's the ambition of the climate agreement, we're going to reach the 85 grams goal. However, the EU average is much higher, now it is about. 120. So here Norway is far ahead of what Norway’s neighbouring country in the EU is doing, and Norwegian drivers are completely wrong to be charged with additional costs and further cuts. In Norway, we're going to do what we can and spend the tax money on people most efficiently and rationally, but I want to remind you that we don't have to be the best in the class all the time. Nor must we categorically and uncritically follow everything the EU says and everything it does. It is at least natural and important that Norway cooperates with its neighbours, both Sweden and Finland, both large forest nations, in order to help influence the EU and to make the EU understand the importance and logic of forest not having to be neglected in climate accounting. In fact, the forest should actually have been up-to-date and considered higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e695	The centre party, SV and some members of the Progress Party and the trade union movement wish to terminate the EEA Agreement. Together with the opposition to the EEA, there is a general scepticism about globalisation and international trade. It is not a strange phenomenon, but something that we see emerging across large parts of Europe and also in the United States, where Donald Trump's resistance to trade agreements and globalisation went home to many voters. Although the EEA Agreement has obvious weaknesses in participation, it is the most important agreement Norway has — not only with the EU but with some other country or international organisations. For more than 20 years, the EEA Agreement has ensured Norwegian access to the EU's internal market. It is for this market nearly 80 pst. of Norwegian exports. At the same time, about 60 pst. Norwegian imports from the EU. It makes the EU our main trading partner. It is a very well-functioning partnership, largely due to the benefits of the EEA Agreement and its predictability. Rejecting the EEA Agreement will not only have disastrous consequences for Norwegian companies that buy and sell goods in the EU. There will also be serious consequences for the Nordics, in the form of loss of rights, especially for those living in or living in other EU/EEA countries. This concerns the right of workers and students to be treated equally with residents of their country of residence, the right to establish themselves as entrepreneurs and the right to organise themselves and to claim their union rights in the same way as their own citizens – to mention something. Fortunately, the broad group of the Norwegian population is of a different opinion than the Centre Party, SV and parts of the Progress Party when it comes to the future of the EEA Agreement. A recent survey conducted by Response Analysis on mission from the European Movement found that 74 pst. by the Nordics either want to maintain the EEA Agreement or to become a member of the EU. Only 21 pst. wish to terminate the contract. You can't expect the parties that are against the EEA Agreement to change their positions, but I think it's very important to prevent their isolationist thinking from getting feet attached in several places. Norway and the Nordics are not worthy to stand alone in an ever smaller world. Fortunately, there is an opinion shared by a large majority of the population of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e704	The lot of the centre is for the national State. We believe that the nation state is a success, that the nation state has been the protection of the weakest and has created a community in which democracy has worked, that has allowed everyone to express their opinion, and that we have felt a community. It's a success story. That's right: we're strong opponents of the transfer of more and more power away from the main hall into multinational agreements. Because what we see is that if you take power away from the main hall, it's impossible to hold anyone responsible. We believe that in the long term it creates more frustration and more contradiction. That is why we have been critical of the TTIP agreement, because we believe that it will – as it stands at present – transfer power from national parliaments, from most peoples to multinational companies. That's not the way to go. Then there's someone who criticizes us for being concerned that most people should have the opportunity to participate and influence their own everyday life. To them I say, "Get your eyes up for what happens when too many are marginalized!" It's the prescription for more conflict. The recipe for less conflict is less difference, and people's interests are taken seriously. Then I understand that the European movement is going to find comfort in measurements. But if you look at the relationship with the European Union, there is no doubt that we who are on the no-side have had the Norwegian people in their backs again and again. Thanks to the Norwegian people and not the Right and not the Workers' Party, we do not have the euro in Norway and are an independent country. I am pleased – I thank the Norwegian people for that. Then it's said that we want to play gambling with Norwegian interests. Of course we don't. It's this government that does it. The first thing the previous European Minister did was go down to Brussels and say sorry, sorry that the government had previously stood up for the Norwegian food industry, Norwegian food culture and Norwegian agriculture. It is completely incomprehensible that a government could do that without any anchoring in the Stortinget. Fortunately, the Stortinget stopped it – and it for a food chain at the top of 150 billion. kr. It's gambling, it's just traveling down and giving concessions. What we are saying is that we need to look at what opportunities – and problems – Brexit provides for Norway, but today’s government is just going to look at the problems all the time, instead of looking at the opportunities. No one just wants to cancel an agreement without having a new work contract in place. But we need to have an attitude and see how we can strengthen ourselves. And then the government has to stop lying towards the EU, as they have done, especially in the food industry, especially in the agricultural sector. It has been a great benefit to Norway that we have had the freedom of action to use customs protection, so that we have secured a value chain of approx. 100 000 jobs in our country – around the whole of Norway – where we have secured Norwegian food culture and Norwegian industry and created many values.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e719	To the previous speaker, it is precisely the security that the Central Party wants to doubt by cancelling the EEA Agreement. The RAC Agreement is based on the EEA Agreement, and if it does so, much of the Norwegian food and beverage industry disappears, at least on the basis of it – just as has been said. The Centre Party and Navarsete are trying to balance the existence of agreements and at the same time to be positive to trade. You can't, because you have to commit, you have to write agreements. Our pluses are often the counterparty's minuses, and vice versa, but trading is not a zero sum game. Trade is something that makes countries specialise in what you're best at doing. So it gives a growth gain for the whole world. We saw that in the report that was presented on TTIP. It was estimated that the gain at TTIP for Norway was between NOK 2000 and NOK 6000 per capita per year in increased value creation, precisely because we can specialize. The world is a cool place, we have to agree on that, but in this debate we are putting the similarity between globalisation and all the problems that have arisen, including more inequality. I want to remind you that we have received the Internet. The three-processing industry can be asked about newspaper paper — and in particular Norwegian woodworking industry — whether there was trade that weakened those jobs. No, it was taken through a disruptive innovation called the Internet. The world entered a completely different phase that caused many workplaces to disappear. Automation and digitisation will face major challenges in the Norwegian industry. It's not trade that's the challenge alone, but I take it that there are challenges to trade as well. Conversion and change that the world is going through every single day are creating great challenges. Some lose their jobs, while others get completely new jobs. New jobs are being created. We don't quite know what the new jobs are, but Norway has had tremendous success in creating the new jobs that have the power to carry a well-being that makes Norway one of the best countries to live in the world. We have to trust that in the future. But do not blame globalisation and trade agreements for everything going on! There are challenges to development. We have to take that over. Distribution policy, inequality, everything – and maybe the Internet is the biggest driver behind it. I see at least signs that the Internet creates a 'the-winner-takes-it-all' society, and that's a huge challenge. These are major challenges, but if we get away from globalisation and trade, everyone will be poorer, and no one is worthy of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e731	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e736	I'm going to trust Tryggen Schlagsvold Vedum that I am also for the nation state, and that it has been a success, provided that the nation state has pursued a sensible policy. There are some failed states, so there is no guarantee in itself. The centre party is opposed to increasingly transferring power to international agreements and institutions. Yes, more and more – it's a balance. However, Norway has served very well to ensure that the world’s country has transferred power and responsibility to agreements and institutions — the law of the sea as a string — and that large and small countries respect it. The dilemma if we are not to transfer power to international agreements and institutions is how to address common challenges – climate policy, migration, refugee crisis, poverty challenges. That's what the Center Party owes us an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e743	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e748	With as many challenges as we get, I should almost have the word for a long remark! Of course, we in the Central Party are in favour of trade rules, and that we are going to act together, but development is now in only one direction, all the time, and it is that one should weaken the ability of national parliaments to take action to lift everyone in society, and that it should always transfer more power to multinational companies, to large capital, at the expense of most people. That's the wrong path. The GATT Agreement provides space for action by allowing different parameters to be used to secure the economy of a country. It has been a success that we have room for action. This is the space for action that TTIP and other agreements are now in the process of being removed. We can't support that, because it's a recipe that more and more people will feel marginalized, and it'll create bigger conflicts, not less. It's a task for all of us to mitigate the level of conflict in the world and make sure that we don't get the same thing in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e755	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e760	I note that the Council of State has not taken the word and come with some clarification in terms of ESA's case or the case that has been opened from ESA's side. The case concerns not only the one sector that is up in it, but also the cleaning workers, in the construction industry, it is actually a very difficult matter. We know that LO and NHO are on each side of that case. There is also another matter that has received little attention today. I was going to talk about her every time I was up, but then there was so much else. That applies to Article 19 negotiations. It's supposed to be mutually beneficial. Imports of dairy products into Norway have doubled five in the last 15 years, and it would be interesting to see whether the Council of State thinks we have something more to give, if that is the way that that agreement should be mutually beneficial. It may have to last another time – but we have no more to give in to that appointment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e767	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e773	These are comments from the representative, Mr Vedum, who almost produced the large capital, the large groups and the EU as two heads of the same troll. After all, there must be a serious lack of knowledge about the development of justice and the formation of justice that has just taken place in the EU. Cooperation between sovereign States has established a legal order allowing the EU competition authorities to impose billions of fines on those who abuse their market power. A natural question that must go to the isolationist centre party must be how they intend to discipline the rules of the game between the major groups, without having these powerful regional arrangements that will give us an international legal order.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e778	I will not extend the debate that much, but after a long and partly substantial debate, it is appropriate to note that after a half-yearly presentation, full and good, from the Council of State, we see that the Centre Party is isolated in the matter of the EEA Agreement and Norway's association. Even SV had a very careful article in this context. I think we should be very happy that this also applies to Norwegian business. Norwegian companies, Norwegian trade unionists and Norwegian workers are very pleased that this debate has given us the opportunity to see that the Zenterpartie is all alone in this matter. We are living in a very uncertain time, both in terms of trade, industrial development and increasing integration. We see an uncertain security situation. This is not the time to create uncertainty about Norway’s relationship with Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e785	The debate on the presentation is closed. The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters by the Minister for Coordination of EEA Matters and Relations with the EU be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e801	At the end of the 1990s and early 2000s, we often talked about how globalisation and technology development were going to change 'everything'. But what were we really talking about? We have a little bit of the answer today. We carry advanced computers in each of our pockets, which communicate with everything and nothing beyond the borders of Norway. We expect that when we sometimes have to contact some of the people who provide services via the advanced mobile phone or the computer we have in our pocket, we will call a call centre and get answers from e.g. the Baltic countries or elsewhere in the world. Or to take a last example – we can now extract medicines from the pharmacy without bringing us a paper recipe. Afterwards it is opened so that this can also be delivered in the mail at home. But we are still on the way in this development. Digitalisation is clearly a potential for better services, safer systems and better use of people working, for example: in the field of health and care. Even I'm still a technology optimist and am happy about the progress we're making, and about how Health Norway can become more accessible, more patient-friendly, better for the employees who work in the sector, and safer for everyone. Our responsibility as politicians is to make sure that the framework for the good systems is there, and then we have to ask some critical questions. A new way to organise health and care services requires inter alia: major investments in new infrastructure, long-term planning and good coordination between health services. We need solid ordering and operational skills and cooperation between trade unions that do not know each other. The question is whether we have this in place today. One of the important points at that time is the state overall governance, which is necessary to ensure full and progress in the digitisation of healthcare and to ensure adequate capacity. Government governance is also necessary in order to ensure the choices made in the various health businesses – choosing ICT solutions that ensure social security, privacy and the ability to communicate across regions in the long term, and that not least safeguard citizens’ confidence in healthcare. We're now making investments that are going to take health care into an increasingly digital future. However, many ask fundamental questions, such as: To what extent are the solutions currently being selected in the various regional health establishments taking account of changes? Are they scalable, can they be integrated, and are there sufficiently high standards that allow them to communicate with each other? One last question: is it the proper use of resources that the different regional health care companies develop different solutions in the digital infrastructure that we are talking about here? It is important to remember that the work now done is on the shoulders of past decisions and past work under different governments. For example, under the Stoltenberg II government, several ministers of health and care made a great deal of effort through proposals and decisions here in the ICT area, among others. through the EIC, one journal and a prepared and strengthened eHealth Health Directorate. One of the reasons was that the then health ministers saw a need for greater interaction. Several of these proposals often encountered opposition in some of today’s government parties. I quote from the debate in Stortinget on 16 June 2014, where the current Minister for Health and Health said: ‘The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen referred to some of my views in this type of question some years ago. It's absolutely right that in this kind of question, both I and Right have moved us. But in the context of Stortinget's treatment of the Stortingen Storingsmessageen One incorporates - one journal and in connection with the matter of nuclear records saw that Stortinget had a different attitude to this kind of question than it had in the pre-enlargement period. There is today reason to thank former Minister of Health Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen for having started an important reform work in this area.’ It was in the debate on the so-called Patient Journal Act in 2014, and the quotation was therefore from the current Minister of Health and Care Bent Höie. It was an important recognition, and the question is now whether the Council of State and the government have largely taken on board what will result from a change in practical policy in the years to come, if we are to take this further. It has recently been — and that is also why this interpellation arose — focused on the impact on security when Norwegian businesses outsource ICT services to suppliers in other countries, in the event of routine failures and, in the utmost consequence, vulnerable systems exposed to both data attacks and worst-case sabotage. This may contribute to increased vulnerability to the ICT systems used in Norwegian healthcare companies and thus to the safety and processing of personal information to Norwegian patients. I'm very concerned that we have a high level of awareness about these questions. In Norway, we have a unique trust in the authorities and health services. We largely trust that people who are going to help us will do well, and we trust that our health information will be stored in a good way. We have to keep this, because history has shown that there has not always been as good a reason to trust the health care system in the past, for example. paper records were sent by taxi, thrown in garbage or lay in rooms where many had access and no one knew who had been inside and looked. Digitalisation is taking this a step further, and I believe that this improves and ensures privacy to a greater extent than before. At the same time, there are particularly good systems for digital firewalls and access control in the digital sense, and a wide range of systems are connected so that when this information is stored, it shall not be possible for others to search or access sensitive data that is not to be accessed. To the case in Health South-East: We must have confidence that the responsible decision-makers have done a thorough job in discussing precisely these matters. At the same time, we have a wide range of examples of this not being good enough, even in things that should not be balanced, in Norway. Therefore, it is important to get the Council of State's view of what kind of assessments he more basically makes around this. Back to the Norwegian model: we trust each other in Norway, and that is also important in terms of the cost of launching ICT services. One of the arguments for the decision on this acquisition in Health South-East is that the cost picture in the short and medium term is lower than if it were done in so-called self-government. The problem is that many researchers — both in business and in public enterprises — are now asking questions about the long-term picture of costs around some of these types of transactions. Outsourcing often leads to increased control, more communication, more written claims, more reporting and more supervision. All of this costs time and money, and when you also know that in many contexts you have to be aware that you have a claim that you should be able to pick up this type of service ‘home’ if there is a situation where we are dependent on doing this in Norway because something is happening in the world, then often – that is what research says now – a good part of the financial premise for this to be beneficial. Therefore, there are no simple answers in the debate on the deployment of ICT services, nor in regional health businesses. In conclusion, however, I would like to point out that what concerns me in this matter, with this example and this fundamental debate, is the extent to which there are different approaches – and have been over time – in the various regional health businesses. I mentioned in the interpellation sent to the government, which is being answered and debated here today, for example. in the West, in the Health West, for many years, has largely chosen to do exactly what is now proposed outsourced here in the East in Health South-East, in so-called self-reliance. I look forward to hearing the Council of State and the government's principle view of doing the opposite when we have such good experience from, among other things. Health West, and look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e830	Health South-East has had over several years a project to modernise, standardise and harmonise the basic ICT infrastructure in the region. The project does not include the patient journal system. The Board of Health South-East decided on 8 September that further modernisation of the ICT infrastructure will take place through the use of external suppliers. They concluded that the modernisation of a common ICT infrastructure is essential for the further digitisation of clinical and administrative processes in hospitals. Health South-East has assessed that a contract with an external partner will provide better economic sustainability and faster modernisation of the ICT infrastructure in the region than if they were to implement it under their own control. Hospital partners are responsible for the acquisition and will continue to be responsible for the total supply of ICT to health businesses. Health South-East has briefed the Ministry that four of the Hospital Partner's services in ICT infrastructure are considered appropriate to be provided by an external partner. Common for these areas is that they are not specific to the health sector and can therefore be offered by external actors with no specific competence in healthcare. Modernisation of ICT infrastructure will facilitate further development of Hospital Partners in order to improve the quality and efficiency of delivery to health businesses. In order to provide the best possible support to health businesses, the Hospital Partners have focused on developing the close-to-life technology and services directly related to the main activities of healthcare companies – patient treatment, patient and related education, research and education. Health South-East has carried out a cost-benefit analysis that shows that the total gain from using external partners to modernise ICT infrastructure is about 1.9 billion. DKK over seven years and SEK 3.7 billion. DKK over 10 years in nominal kroner. These are gains that will provide health to the south-east more resources for patient treatment and investment in other areas. In addition, modernisation could provide additional benefits for operation and management. Health South-East is of the opinion that cooperation with external partners in the modernisation of ICT infrastructure will strengthen the health region's work on patient treatment and patient safety. The government's objectives are the most effective use of Community resources, and we are therefore open to the possibility that more private service providers can contribute to solving the Community's tasks. The government is also in favour of putting out non-medical services for competition. Health South-East has briefed the Ministry that the deployment of ICT infrastructure is a fast-growing market. This has now become an established and mature market and an industrial sector is established with actors providing standardised ICT infrastructure services to a large number of customers, including public enterprises. These actors are characterised by the fact that they provide services with a high degree of automation. By exploiting standardised and cost-effective ICT infrastructure, the ICT competence of Health South-East can be used more widely in the development of the business-related technology and services directly linked to the main activities of health enterprises – patient treatment, patient and family training, research and education. The action rooms of regional health enterprises in relation to ICT infrastructure are defined in the laws, statutes and requirements of the Ministry of Health and Welfare at the business meetings. The Government has not required the implementation of competitive outsourcing in this area. Governors have a separate responsibility to ensure the proper organisation of the overall business of the enterprise and to assess the need for external partners. The Board of Health of the South-East is responsible for assessing and, where appropriate, deciding whether to modernise, and assessing and deciding whether to do so using an external supplier. At the corporate meeting in Health South-East on 15 September, I agreed that part of the service agreement to modernise the ICT infrastructure of the group could be implemented using a financial lease. I underlined that the agreement on the modernisation of the ICT infrastructure of the enterprise group is within the responsibility of the board of directors to ensure the satisfactory organisation of the entire business in line with the Health Business Act, and that the Board of Health South-East decides that the modernisation will be carried out using an external supplier. Interpellant Mikalsen points out that «Health West and Health Nord has come a long way in upgrading digital infrastructure and services». I assume that he here believes that Health West and Health Nord has carried out the upgrading of the digital infrastructure and services under their own control. All four health regions have been developing and modernising digital infrastructure and services in their own right over several years. This is crucial for the further development and use by hospitals of electronic patient records, electronic patient management systems and general digitisation, including the modernisation and standardisation of clinical and administrative work processes in hospitals. To support this development, health regions depend on a modern infrastructure on which new digital services can be built. Health South-East, like the other health regions, has made significant investments to develop ICT infrastructure in its region. But technological development does not stop. All regions will continuously need to develop skills and capacities. Health South-East has chosen to cooperate on this with an external partner in order to maximise the benefits of rapid development. Technological developments in ICT infrastructure are moving towards standardised services provided with a high degree of automation and limited use of human resources – i.e. the industrialisation of this part of ICT infrastructure. In many cases, the services are provided from global delivery centres while respecting individual customer information security and privacy requirements. For Health South-East, this implies that all data centres and all patient information should be physically located in Norway. They are therefore also subject to Norwegian law and legislation. The rapid development of end-user equipment, personal computers and handheld solutions is a trend that has also reached the health sector. This further demands that ICT infrastructure be able to integrate increasingly advanced ICT solutions in hospitals so that clinics can put them into service. In Health South-East, this trend emerges through the solutions adopted at the new hospital in Eastfold. The development has demonstrated the importance of a modern ICT infrastructure to enable mobile solutions to be used for diagnosis and treatment – for the benefit of patients. These experiences shall be systematised, and it shall be ensured, by means of an external supplier, that the other hospitals enjoy the success of the Hospital Østfold as soon as possible. Technological developments will lead to changes for the ICT organisations of many enterprises and for the organisation of internal joint services. Today, resources and competences are increasingly used on the development and management of business-related solutions and are based on standardised infrastructure services provided by external suppliers. These are the competences of the major international suppliers, and the board of Health South-East has assessed this as an appropriate distribution of roles for its region.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e872	I thank the Council of State for the answer. For my part, I would just like to stress that private individuals can play a very good role in providing many types of services and many types of product series and supporting the work being done, including in the health and care sector. We have e.g. several private companies providing patient journal systems, both Norwegian and foreign. In other sectors, we have private IT/ICT providers that control everything from oil spills on platforms and ships to air traffic, and many other types of things that are also particularly important infrastructure in Norway. When I still think this is an interesting issue – that is, in Health South-East, as an example – it is partly about the government having a very unhealthy relationship to this issue in my view. For example, they write. in the Government Declaration that welfare services do not differ significantly from other types of services in terms of who can deliver them, and the Council of State now states in its reply that he has ‘not made it necessary to carry out competitive out’ in these types of deliveries in Health South-East. I believe him. The question is what to do about two and a half years ago – when this process was started in Health South-East – in the Owners' Dialogue with Health South-East. There I have said, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that in a Labour Party-driven Ministry of Health, we would have to make a greater demand that first, as a first choice, what possibilities and what kind of scenario you have, if you could do a part of the type of work that is now being proposed to the external supplier, under your own control. I am fully aware that the Hospital Partner HF as a supplier today is not satisfactory in a wide range of areas. That's a lot of reasons. But we would do it that way, and then we might have level B, what's now on the table, is the option. The reason for this is that when I say that the government has an unfurnished relationship with competitive outsourcing and outsourcing, it is because a wide range of independent professional and research-based reports now point out that these kinds of exercises, transactions, are largely underestimating both costs and complexity – it underestimates the importance of having closeness to the operating environment in many cases when things and problems arise with communication, and it underestimates the importance of having access to what I call ‘strategic competence’, including in the field of digitalisation and ICT services. So I would like to challenge the Council of State to make it clearer to what extent this type of outsourcing is in line with the government's basic position and policy, or whether, as he suggests, it is up to each service provider – in this case Health South-East – to make its own assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e887	It is clear that health regions are responsible for this task. It is up to them to choose the solution that they think is the best and that best meets the objective. At the same time, of course, I demand that the best possible use be made of society's resources, that as much of the resources as possible go to the primary tasks of health regions: patient treatment, research and training of relatives and patients. That's what your main problem is. That is why, from 2017, we are introducing neutral VAT for health regions, so that legislation and charging systems do not work against solutions such as: is not the most favourable from what serves the purpose of the health regions, namely to treat patients. When Health South-East has had this case, it is not necessary for me in advance – as the representative suggests – to say that they have to consider this solution against doing it in their own right. Of course they have. That's what's the alternative. That assessment has been made in Health South-East, and the solution is more costly in their assessment, has a higher risk and has a lower degree of modernisation in terms of ICT infrastructure. So that assessment is done. If there had been political governance signals from me that anyone would implement it in their own direction – as I understand it had been a management signal from the Workers' Party – then one could have risked having a decision that meant less money for patient treatment, higher risks for the ICT infrastructure and a delayed modernisation of the ICT infrastructure. It would be a political intervention that would have worked against what is the purpose of healthcare, namely to treat patients, conduct research and train patients and relatives. With regard to the work on ICT modernisation in general, it is quite right that the submission of the Storing Message One citizen – one journal was important for the setting of the course. But it was just a little start. One of the first jobs I did as a health and care minister was therefore to order three status reports in this area – one on the management system, one on the Norwegian supply market and one on the situation – and everyone was quite discouraging. I was also in consultation with the Control Committee on a national audit report which also gives a good status to what was the situation when I took over as Minister of Health and Care in this area. I would recommend the representative to read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e898	In 2014, an Indian IT job stopped the Mongstad gas loading as a result of a key error. That's how Statoil discovered that "outsourcing" to India had put security in jeopardy. The NRK detected 29 events in which Indian IT workers broke the barrier to Statoil’s platforms and landing facilities. The events include: led to the evacuation of production facilities, to the loss of weather data and to the collapse of computer networks. On 8 September 2016, Health South-East decided to ‘outsource’ large parts of its ICT services to an American IT company. Today, Hospital Partner HF has this responsibility. The Minister for Health approved the financial part of the Business Meeting on 15 September 2016. This means that Health South-East should ‘outsource’ a range of services through the establishment of so-called strategic partnerships. The Center Party believes that ICT is the highest contributor to the core tasks of hospitals. At the moment Health South-East outsources ICT services to an external partner, they at the same time report developments over critical infrastructure. Health South-East contract for the deferral of the modernisation and operation of ICT basic services to an external partner is quite extensive, and Managing Director Cathrine Lofthus in Health South-East pronounced to the NRK: ‘This is only about the core wall of the computer system.’ I mean, one of these statements isn't exactly reliable. The emphasis on short-term economic gains – that it should be important enough to put the Norwegian competence and work environment into play, while at the same time at risk of weakening security and losing control – separates the Centre Party. Today, the Hospital Partner HF – which is owned by Health South-East – is responsible for ICT and is responsible for ICT competence. In postponing the trade union environment, the competence will also be transferred to the US company through business transfer, and at a time when we are facing major challenges in another industry – we are going to fill the place for oil and gas. Then we must have a thorough political debate whether it is right to accept that so large-scale contracts in the field of ICT are being sent out of the country, or whether we should maintain and further develop the ICT industry in Norway. And with reference to Statoil's IT leaks, there's a difference between gas loading and sensitive patient information. In its 2015 annual report, the Swedish Data Protection Authority writes the following on health: ‘The data processed in this area are among the most sensitive and the population itself considers the data to be particularly valuable for protection.’ This has to do with the trust in the Norwegian health service, and we can't forget that. The Health South-Aust agreement shall require data centres to be located in Norway, but in Fagbladet on 8 September 2016 Gisle Hannemyr, who is a researcher at the University of Oslo, shall state: ‘Has an American company access to Norwegian health data, they have the same access to them as if the servers were in the United States.’ Senior researcher Per Håkon Meland at Sintef says: ‘When processing data, you cannot just think about where the data is stored. If a company supports the data in the United States or India, the data is processed there.’ So there's also reason to be concerned about security. The centre party fears that ‘outsourcing’ of Hospital Partners could lead to significant loss of competence and could increase the risk of leakage of sensitive patient data. We believe that the security of patient data and the preservation of ICT competence in Norway are part of the core tasks of public hospitals. Now Health South-East has made a strategic choice that can have national consequences. The Minister for Health said in his speech that he is really just busy seeing that the resources are being used properly, short-term economic gain. This is a much more intrusive decision than that, and the Central Party believes that this principle should be settled by the Stortinget. Nor can I see the big difference between the Labour Party and the Right in what is being said today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e934	First, thank you to the representative, Mr Mikalsen, who is raising an important debate in the Grand Duchy. There are both principal and obviously also political aspects here that we should discuss in the Stortinget. Several have been concerned with vulnerability to health-related information, which we can gain less control over from the Norwegian side. There's a rapid development here, where we haven't seen the big scandals yet. But the question is when we see them, and the question is also, which country does it come first? Health-related ICT skills are becoming more important and important. I understand the Minister of Health when he says that hospitals have other core areas, which are the most important – it is obvious – but the digital infrastructure is becoming more important and important for patient treatment, not least for the patient’s ability to understand, learn more and become better acquainted with his or her own health. To see this from a slightly different perspective: it has a political perspective, which has not yet been a major part of the debate, but – as the representative Kjersti Toppe was partly involved – if we put this in an industrial context, we can imagine that Norway is under construction of a health-related ICT competence that we can take with us into the world. DIPS is an example of this. They provide many Norwegian hospitals, are located in Bodø, they have developed a lot, and they may have a potential outside Norway — it may be in the hospital sector, but it may also be closer to primary health services and what we in Norway call the municipal health sector. But the capacity to lift them out of Norway, with current ownership mainly related to employees and a few county municipalities, it's not there. If we were to transfer it to Telenor, where would Telenor be if they had had a couple of small county municipalities as owners, and we had given them the mandate to have a global strategy, which we have kind of confirmed to Telenor and wanted them to have? This is digital infrastructure in the same way. I think it's a discussion it's worth taking now. We are not going to make it a discussion about DIPS, but about the extent to which we can create industrial actors in Norway with a larger geographical impact field than some of the Norwegian actors have today. If we also include the green data centres, which are partly under construction, and what opportunities Norway has to take care of, manage and use green energy, then we see great industrial opportunities. This is when it becomes important to have an ICT competence in Norway that is versatile but can be pointed out in some areas. There is one of the discussions that this leads to — to what extent do we brave Norway for competence and capacity when the head office is in the United States and many of the actors are in India to manage? It is also one of the important perspectives that I think belong to this debate, which has not been raised in the Stortinget, and which makes the role of health businesses primarily a question of how we can save and do this adequately. It may be okay that it should be their role, but some people have to take the bigger discussions about what we want with Norwegian knowledge capacity, and where the limit of vulnerability goes. They are obviously the role of the Biggest to take and not leave to a few in a health company.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e950	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising a very topical question. Then I'll tell the representative, Kjeseth, that I'm completely in agreement, and what the representative brings up at the end, I think I'm definitely part of this debate. I also mean that there has been part of the discussion about this. From the point of view of the SV, this is both a health policy loss and a loss of nutrition policy. When I come to the end of this article, I will say a few words about a whole new case that has arisen. This is about the Riksrevision, which on Tuesday produced a new report on the Hospital Partner that is relevant for this discussion. The backtrace here is that digitization has started so far, and we're just at the threshold of a revolution in the way we think and perform health services. We're just at the beginning here. If one agrees with that premise, one must also agree with the following two conclusions, which I think logically follow. One is that the old discussion about core tasks is just old. It must be put in a new light. This now interferes with each other — digital developments and the way in which patients are treated, slipping into each other. This will provide great, positive values for both society and the individual, and not least economic gains for the whole of society. The second is that ‘outsource’ ICT services are bad enterprise policies. It's negative both from a health point of view and when it concerns the development of the health care system in general, as we know it is for all other industries. What's happening internationally now is that bringing experts and ICT people together, the breaking point there, is the new thing that's happening. We also see that those who are currently at the forefront of health at international level, for example. Kaiser Permanente, has just invested in having a very strong ICT environment on the house and through it develop this together with health workers. So "outsource" this service means that one simultaneously shifts competence away from hospitals and to Silicon Valley. Maybe that's the most short-thinking thing we can think of in this room. One can understand the board of Health South-East and they decided to "outsource" this. In their situation – the government has seen them in a very difficult economic situation – they try to count on the buttons what in all the world they are going to lower of expenditure. And in such a situation, they may feel that they have no choice. But for us as societies, who want to develop the public sector, and who also want to build up an ICT industry in this country, it's time to get up and get through. And as mentioned, in the end: On Tuesday, the National Audit Board presented to the Control Committee a new report showing that Health South-East has not controlled the cost development of the Hospital Partner. This applies directly to this matter, because I would say that in all ideological feuds that can be between the right and the left, the consideration of taxpayers' money must weigh a little heavily. I also perceive that the Minister of Health made it very heavy in his speech — it was not that ideological to trace there. Let's just take a clean starting point on costs. According to the Riksrevision, Health South-East has not been in control of the expenses of the Hospital Partner. There has been no degree of transparency, and measures have not been verified for cost-effectiveness. This is talk about 1 billion. kr per year. The big question in this discussion must then be: Instead of getting the costs of own companies sorted into dialogue with a bunch of other foreign actors, so if the Minister of Health is only concerned with the cost picture – as he says today – shouldn't he first check whether better control of the Hospital Partner can provide more savings than moving the competence out of the country? I just have to add, because it was invited to a fundamental discussion here: in SV we see no contrast between developing public services and building up a strong ICT industry. We think this could be a win-win situation. Norway has a large public sector that is more or less the same in the whole country. This means that we have a quite unique ability to develop common, innovative solutions. But we think that the operation of these services, as the model of Kaiser Permanente adds, must be on the house, just in order to be a good and good buyer – but then developments can happen in the industrial complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e969	To my name brother Knag Fylkesnes: I haven't read carefully enough the report from the Riksrevision that he refers to, but I've seen it quickly, and that's very interesting. Some of these figures are to be followed and seen, and to what extent they are comparable to those established in the context of the new strategic partnership contract with external suppliers. I can't do enough about it, so I can't say it today. So I want to go back to the more general one. The Council of State points out that he is concerned that hospitals should only operate with what he refers to as the core competence or activity in hospitals, and I understand that when one looks at the current government’s track record. I referred to the government statement, how they refer to welfare services in general as very little different from any other type of service. They are now introducing neutral VAT in health establishments, which cannot be understood in any other way than to facilitate the provision by the public of more of the services currently provided by the public at large by the private sector. We have seen the health minister's attitude to OPS funding for hospital buildings, so hospital buildings cannot be said to be part of the core activity of a hospital – it can be paid by means of a so-called OPS contract, which has been hit hard by other countries, and from which all other countries are now running away. For example, a few other examples are: cleaning services, various commercial services in hospitals, which cannot be said to be patient treatment in the correct sense of the word, but which are very important for the interaction and interaction between different disciplines in hospitals. Other countries have tried this medicine. In the United Kingdom, for example, this is happening. now a violent debate – it has done so over a long time – on the future of the many mentions of Norway’s public health services, namely the NHS, where they have developed this type of thinking, that individuals enter and take on various tasks, in interaction, within the hospitals themselves. There are examples of private suppliers operating emergency facilities in hospitals – commercial companies owning and operating them. There are examples of how decision-makers have different funding systems in which they are rewarded in order to make some types of choices that need to be said to be more in a commercial context than in a health context. All of this has been driven under the tab that the interaction between private and public is erased – hospitals should focus on the so-called basics. I'm not saying that it means that it's wrong – except that hospitals in any case base part of their basic ICT competence on collaboration with private – but it says a little about the ideological and principleal attitude of today's government, which is very different from what many of us think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e982	I just have to clarify some issues related to the safety of patient information. The project does not include patient journal systems or other clinical or administrative systems where personal data are processed. Proper processing of personal data is a prerequisite for any use of technology in the specialist healthcare service. Health South-East has assured the Ministry that the external supplier has been required to comply with all information security and privacy requirements laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. It is an absolute requirement of the agreement with the external supplier and is ensured, inter alia, by: detailing the legal and regulatory requirements based on the International Standard on Information Security, ISO 27000. The agreement requires the risk assessment of all infrastructure measures and changes before they are realised as well as of the overall operational situation. As data controllers, health undertakings have a unilateral right to assess the adequacy of safety measures and also have to authorise risk assessments before changes can be implemented by the supplier. As mentioned above, the external supplier’s services are limited to ICT infrastructure, i.e. not patient journal systems or patient administration systems. The agreement with the service provider clearly requires all data centres to be located in Norway, including all the storage of patient data and requirements for the separation of health business data. Personnel operating the infrastructure shall not have access to systems with person-sensitive information, such as: the patient record system DIPS or other clinical or administrative systems where personal data are processed. Operation of these systems shall continue to be provided by Hospital Partner HF. According to Health South-East RHF, all personal data will remain physical in Norway, and access to them will still be from Norway and limited to the Hospital Partners and the healthcare companies themselves. This means that personal data are not to be transferred to other countries or to any cloud service. To the issue of ICT as an industry. One of the three reports I ordered as Minister of Health and Health was just a report describing the Norwegian supply market in this area. It was a rather critical report, and I said when the report came, that I hoped that the Norwegian suppliers would use this report to improve themselves. But at least there is one thing that I am absolutely certain: if there is something that the Norwegian ICT industry will not be able to develop, then it is an idea that the answer for the Norwegian ICT industry is to be protected from international competition. Sending an ICT industry that has been protected from international competition, out in the world to compete, is one of the strangest things I've heard from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e991	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-10.ana.ud235e1005	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
