ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e67	Representatives of Ingunn Foss, Abid Q. Raja, Jørund Rytman, Lise Christoffersen, Anders B. Werp, Kåre Simensen, Ove Trellevik, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Rasmus Hansson, Ulf Leirstein and Stein Erik Lauvås, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. By the Enlarged Group of the Progress Party, it is announced that the granted leave of the representative of Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen in the period from 1 to 3 has been granted. March, has been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Sveinung Rotevatn on study leave from 1 March to 3 March from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Eirik Sivertsen on 2 and 3 March to attend the Arctic Parliamentary Conference in Stockholm On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Nordland: Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Gunhild Berge Stag
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e142	Gunhild Berge Stag is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e150	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e153	On behalf of Åsmund Aukrust, Eirin Sund, Abid Q. Raja, Ola Elvestuen, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Rasmus Hansson and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for the extension of the national park plan and the process of establishing a national park in the East and Preikestolen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e158	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e174	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e186	We are facing a more challenging foreign and security policy situation than for a long time. Fortunately, the picture is not unique. We took part in important progress in 2015 with a new and ambitious climate agreement, nuclear agreement with Iran, progress in the WTO and decisions on new global sustainability targets. Several underlying trends are also positive: global poverty is reduced, more children receive education and better health care, and economic growth continues in both Asia and Africa. But at the same time, we are experiencing increased vulnerability – a feeling that the word we have built in Europe and globally in the last decades is brittle than we thought. In Europe’s southern neighbourhoods there are several areas of war and conflict. From North Africa and Sahel via the Middle East to Afghanistan, it is a belt of vulnerable states struggling with radicalisation and violent extremism as well as weak government governance and high unemployment — not least among young people. More than 100,000 people were killed last year in war and conflict. That's the highest number over the age of 25. Over 60 million people are fleeing the world, and that's the highest number since World War II. 125 million people in the world are in urgent need of humanitarian aid because of war, hunger and poverty. The ISIL terrorist organisation affects the civilian population in Syria and Iraq, most recently with several brutal attacks in recent days that have taken over 100 lives. ISIL is also strongly present in Libya. At the same time, ISIL’s deeds have hit civilians in Europe – from the Paris concert hall to the Copenhagen synagogue. We are facing a more self-reliant and unpredictable Russia, both in the east and in Syria. European cooperation is being put to the test of migration, economic crises, the threat of terrorism and the pressure on international rules of the game. Geographical distances are less and less remote from problems. 2014 and 2015 were demanding years in Norwegian foreign and security policy. But we have to steel ourselves to make 2016 even harder. The seriousness of foreign policy is therefore the guiding principle of the year’s presentation. The seriousness is also the background to the recent launch by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Choice project. It will analyse and stimulate debate on the challenges we face and formulate options for action in foreign and security policy. We need to be clear about what is in Norwegian interest. We have to distinguish between vital, important and other interests. We have to realize that we can't do everything. We have to search with others to find broad solutions. And we must have the will, the ability and the efficiency of diplomatic tools to pursue the vital interests. European countries have always been Norway’s close neighbours and main trading partners. Besides the United States, they're our most important friends and allies. Together with the United States, they are also our main political partners to preserve and strengthen not only regional but also global values and rules of play. Norway is part of the European Community of destiny. When young people were attacked in Paris last fall, in another senseless terrorist attack on our common values, we were also hit. We have clearly shown this in solidarity with France in the same way that the French clearly indicated their solidarity with us after the tragedy that struck Norway on 22 July 2011. Political, economic and most societal areas — what is happening in Europe — have a direct impact on Norway. Therefore, Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe — in a Europe that is challenged both from the outside and from the inside. In the past, the EU has proved itself to be strengthened by crises. It is essential that the European Union also succeeds this time. A weak and fragmented EU will weaken Europe's security. It is in our interest that the European Union should be as united as possible and that Europe should take greater responsibility for its own security. Together, the EU and NATO have a wide range of instruments. There is no contradiction between European and Atlantic orientation in Norwegian foreign policy, on the contrary. Many today demand a common vision of how to further develop the EU. Some countries want closer integration, while others focus on national solutions. The choices made by the Member States will have a long way to go in the future. It is a crossroads for Europe when a central Member State initiates a process that can end up withdrawing from EU cooperation. The new agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom could have implications for the further interpretation and development of basic principles in cooperation. It will also affect us. Norway is serving a strong EU with continued British membership. The challenges must be met with leadership, cooperation and solidarity. It is Europe's strength and in our interest. Let me address some of the key challenges facing Europe in the future: The waves of refugees and migration towards Europe challenge European cooperation. Last year, over a million people came to Europe. Inflows have also been high in recent months. The critical phase was not necessarily last year. The critical phase may lie ahead of us if the influx via Turkey and Libya does not slow down. The wear and tear has been enormous in those countries that have so far borne the greatest responsibility for the flow of refugees: Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. Turkey is at a crossroads. The country faces major challenges with increased levels of conflict and violence and pressures against human rights. Europe is completely dependent on good cooperation with Turkey – in the short term due to migration pressures and in the longer term because we need a stable Turkey as an important regional player in a very unstable area. Turkey is NATO's southern flank. Europe must engage and support Turkey in today's difficult situation, while passing on clear political expectations to Ankara. Greece has been experiencing deep political and economic crises in recent years, and the Middle East migration wave puts the country under increasing pressure. Europe must make clear demands, but also help to help Greece out of the crisis. We need to expand our perspective to find the roots of the migration crisis. War and collapse of state structures in the Middle East and North Africa and lack of international crisis management are some of the reasons. Demographic trends in the Middle East and Africa are also taking place – with population growth, poverty and conflict. The population in both the Middle East and Africa has quadrupled since 1950. According to forecasts, both will double again towards 2050. Then Africa will have two billion people. Already today, 12 million African young people enter the labour market every year. If these rapidly growing youth schools do not see opportunities in their own countries, more will be tempted to embark on a dangerous journey towards Europe. Many refugees from war and conflict, others seeking a better life. Therefore, the government gives economic growth, education and job creation top priority in development policy. The migration crisis affects the social debate, policy, budgets and economy of almost all European countries. Freedom of travel in the Schengen area requires pan-European rules for the definition of the country responsible for examining asylum applications. These rules are laid down in the Dublin III Regulation. Norway wants clear rules. Similarly, Norway wishes third-country nationals who enter the Schengen area without valid documents to be registered and fingerprinted and entered into European computer systems. This provides a basis for applying the common rules on liability and reduces the scope of secondary movements. This is in Norwegian interest. In recent years, the Dublin Code has not been applied mainly because many asylum seekers have not been registered in their previous countries. Norway supports legislative and policy changes that ensure that the Dublin system is followed up and that migrants are registered in the first Schengen country they arrive. A future European asylum system must aim to ensure a more balanced distribution of asylum seekers than is the case today, and that all countries take their share of responsibility. Norway and Greece have recently agreed to use another 31 million. EUR from the EEA funds to strengthen the Greek asylum system until 2017. The government wants a strict and fair policy to deal with refugees and migration anchored in effective international cooperation and the values on which our society is based. We must combat tendencies towards racism and xenophobia. It is important that we get common European solutions. Origin, transit and recipient countries need to cooperate on robust and long-term solutions. We need to strengthen the development and growth of countries of origin, measures against organised crime and trafficking in human beings and measures against illegal and irregular migration. Migration is a challenge that has come to be. Foreign policy plays an important role, and we strengthen our diplomatic efforts in terms of migration both at home and at a number of foreign stations. The development, security and stability of long-standing civil wars and brutal behaviour of violent extremist groups are threatened along the southern border of Europe. This is the second challenge I highlight today. Some conflicts have occurred for a long time. Norway has a long-standing commitment to a two-state solution to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, also through our Presidency of the AHLC donor country group. But it's the civil war in Syria that fires the region. It has now been here for five years. Over 300,000 people are killed. Millions are driven into flight, and millions of new desperate acids may flee if war is not replaced by peace. A few years ago, Syria was an intermediate country. Now cities are reduced to gravel eggs. What took five years to destroy can take five decades to rebuild. The agreement on the stoppage of the fighting that was launched on Saturday is very important, not least for the millions of civilians who have suffered during the brutal warfare of the last few years – not least the children. Three million Syrian children inside Syria are not going to school today. They can easily be a lost generation. It is the responsibility of all parties, not least the Syrian regime and their Russian supporters, to comply with the ceasefire and to contribute to giving room for genuine peace negotiations. There is also a positive consensus to allow humanitarian aid consignments to all parts of Syria, including those that have been excluded from this. The UN mission to Syria, Staffan de Mistura, has notified the United Nations Security Council that he intends to bring the parties back to the negotiating table on 7 March. It will be positive if the difficult work on a political solution can now be started seriously. Norway provides all possible support in this work. Especially ISIL, but also groups like Jabhat al-Nusra and Al-Qaeda, represent ideology and brutality that are inhuman. Norway contributes significantly to the fight against ISIL. We have deployed military personnel in Iraq and are an active member of the nuclear coalition against ISIL. Military efforts have produced results. In Iraq is 40 pst. of land areas controlled one year ago by ISIL, now liberated, including important cities such as Tikrit and Ramadi. However, military instruments alone do not resolve the underlying causes of ISIL’s existence as a state collapse and the lack of inclusion of the Sunni population in Iraq. The fight against ISIL must be fought on a broad front. We give priority to the prevention and management of threats from foreign fighters. We will continue our efforts to fight ISIL financially, and ensure that they are neither sold oil nor given new supplies. At the same time, we take great responsibility for the desperate humanitarian situation. The Norwegian-initiated donor country conference in London contributed to a great humanitarian uplift for Syria. Never before has the world community collected so much in one day. The last numbers that came yesterday show over 12 billion. U.S. dollars. The Prime Minister also announced during the London meeting that Norway would spend about 10 billion. Over four years of humanitarian aid to Syria and neighbouring countries. Never before has Norway given so much money to a humanitarian crisis. The extent of suffering and the absence of political will to solve it call for massive humanitarian efforts. The Syria Conference must also be seen in the context of the major conference on education last year in Oslo. Through the training initiative, Norway has taken a global leadership to ensure education for all children. Education is a key field of action, both in humanitarian aid and in other development policies. Our priorities include: education for girls and the most vulnerable children. We are about to reach the goal of doubling Norwegian education aid. We have also initiated a global Commission to make recommendations on how to provide more funding for education – through national resource mobilisation, more and better assistance, new partnerships and innovative funding mechanisms. Education is not only essential for combating poverty, promoting equality and achieving sustainable development; a schooling site also shortens the road back to normal life in today’s conflict areas. With access to education, children and young people will regain hope for the future. The third challenge is Russia. Russia continues to be oriented away from democratic and liberal values. We see a more unpredictable Russia, where the will to surprise and take foreign policy risks is greater than before. We have condemned Russia's violations of international law in Ukraine and will continue to be associated with our allies and like-minded partners on the reactions to Russia's actions in Crimea and Donbass. We expect all parties to contribute to the fulfilment of the Minsk agreements. And we support Ukraine's reform work politically and financially. In Syria, we are concerned about Russia's increasingly offensive military support for Assad. We experienced until the last weekend massive bombing of opposition groups, which have also given rise to great civilian losses. But we have seen fewer attacks on ISIL, which the entire world community agrees to fight. The situation is further exacerbated by the tension between Russia and NATO Turkey. It is essential to avoid escalating through actions or rhetoric. Russia is our neighbour, and the neighbourhood is a constant and important factor in Norwegian foreign policy. We want a good neighbourly relationship with Russia. This is best achieved by sticking to our Russian policy. Norway shall be predictable, consistent, firm and clear to Russia. We will promote cooperation and contact where there is a common interest, and we will continue to stand up for our values, principles and interests. We seek to maintain good practical cooperation and constructive dialogue with Russia, where possible. This is particularly important in the north. The influx of migrants and asylum seekers across our common border in the north last autumn posed us with a challenging challenge. Through contacts and cooperation based on previously concluded agreements, we found solutions. Both Norway and Russia have served with orderly and stable conditions in border areas. Like allies, we have suspended military cooperation, but cooperation on coastguards, border guards, fisheries management and search and rescue works well. The open line between the Defence Operational Headquarters and the North Fleet is important. In September, Norway and Russia signed a protocol on practical procedures for alerting nuclear incidents under our bilateral alert agreement. Good and open channels are important when meeting challenges that require common solutions. They're also important to be clear from when we disagree. There is no contradiction between maintaining proper bilateral interests in relations with Russia and at the same time – together with our allies and partners – upholding international law and defending important international principles for international relations. So to the fourth European challenge: economic change. Economic growth in Europe is still too weak and unevenly distributed. There is little room for economic action and lack of demand and investment. Unemployment is still high in many countries. The uncertainty factors are many. At the same time, significant changes are taking place in the world economy. We are closely following the economic development in China, the second largest economy in the world, in the hope that the country will not be in favour of a ‘hard landing’ that will have consequences far beyond Asia. Economic growth in most of the world's 20 largest economies seems to be lower than expected in the future. New figures show that world trade fell by nearly 15 pst. in 2015. We are concerned about high public debt and currency turmoil. The central banks have used up many of the established tools. At the same time, we experience major technological changes in energy, transport and communication. Increased automation and robotization, as well as the emergence of so-called ‘big data’ and the sharing economy, will both provide high growth potential and lead to significant changes in the labour market. The sum of these changes means major requirements for migration, and that Europe is increasingly facing tougher global competition, particularly from Asia and the United States. For Norwegian industry and employment, the health status of the other European economies is crucial. More than three quarters of our exports go to the EU. Globalisation has given us new opportunities and mainly served the trade nation Norway well. It is important that we seize the new space for action, transform our economy and increase our global competitiveness in cooperation with our European partners. We strengthen the weight and relevance of foreign policy for a globalised Norwegian business. The message to Norwegian foreign stations is that cooperation with the business community has the highest priority. Europe's challenges are also Nordic challenges. A polarised debate on migration, concerns about developments in Russia and concerns about increasing terrorist threat also characterises the Nordic region. When the European construction works are under pressure, cooperation in the Nordic countries is also affected, perhaps the densest integrated region in Europe and the very core of much of our well-being. We will use Nordic cooperation and our Presidency in 2017 to strengthen Nordic adaptability. This is about economics, about strengthening green competitiveness, and about social development, where cooperation on integration is now emerging as a new area of activity. In addition to security policy discussions, I want to strengthen cooperation with my Nordic colleagues in new and demanding areas – such as migration, global security threats and the fight against terrorism and violent extremism. Developments in the north are characterised by low oil prices, increased geopolitical interest and climate change. Nevertheless, the northern regions remain a peaceful and stable region. Cooperation in the Arctic is based on common interests, balanced resource management and smart institution building. Norway is and must be in a leading role. But the stability in the north cannot be taken for granted. Russian strength building and intensification of exercises in the north demand vigilance. The military strategic balance in the north is shifting in Russia's favor. This must be met with a fixed and predictable line from the Norwegian side. That's also why the government is working to draw NATO's attention to the north. Arctic Council celebrates 20 years this year. The United States is giving high priority to its presidency. Cooperation between Member States is working well. Russia is a very important player in the Arctic. International cooperation including Russia contributes to ensuring continued stability in the region. Norway and the other coastal states of the Arctic Ocean have special rights, responsibilities and knowledge of the Arctic Ocean. We will continue to develop cooperation with them and with all the countries of the Arctic Council. We have to show that we take responsibility. The same is true of our Arctic research promise. Norway must be at the forefront of climate, marine resources, new technologies and industrial development. The government's commitment is important in order to ensure well-being and jobs in the north. We will work systematically to develop the new shipping opportunities that open up in the north. The Arctic has a great potential for future generations, but it requires that we take into account where the boundaries go for the environment. Both Norway and Europe are facing a rapidly changing world. Globalisation continues, but signs of stagnation in world trade in recent years – which I was in the process of doing – make many people ask if we are above the top. Let me, however, begin the global view with a positive perspective. Foreign policy for a globalised world is about building on the great progress in the world over the last 25 years. Let's not forget that since 1990 global value creation has doubled. World trade has grown even more rapidly. The number of people living in extreme poverty is halved, while the world's population has increased by two billion people. International assistance contributes, but the most important is effective national construction, policy reforms, resource mobilisation and good economic policies in the countries themselves. The expectations for a lasting peace agreement for the Civil War Army Colombia are great. Sri Lanka also rises after a bloody civil war and has come much further than expected in healing the wounds after the war. The democratic process in Myanmar is not yet in the finish line, but the one that just five years ago had predicted today's situation would be swept away as naively optimistic. Political progress at national level is also reflected in important progress in international cooperation in the last year. 2015 was a good and important year for the UN in many arenas. The sustainability targets adopted last year were historical. For the first time, the Member States negotiated common objectives, and for the first time, the agenda is universal. The targets also apply to Norway. We also had a breakthrough in demanding negotiations on funding for development in Addis Ababa, on the WTO agreement in Nairobi, and on the Paris climate agreement – all the processes with Norway in an active role. Important reforms in development policy at home also contribute to the achievement of sustainability objectives. As part of improving the efficiency and performance of Norwegian aid, we have reduced the number of countries that can receive Norwegian aid from 116 to 85, and we also aim to reduce the number of aid agreements by at least 30 pst. Initially, we had over 6,000 aid agreements, and that was too much. It is important to maintain and build on the positive things in the world – to anchor the belief that policies are beneficial, and to avoid stagnation and decline after 25 years with spectacular results. At the same time, we need to take a keen look at how global developments today challenge Norway and the world community. Firstly, Asia's economic growth is moving the geopolitical pendulum. Brazil’s crisis and China’s growth pain show that development is not linear, but power is still shifting east and south. We're on our way to a more fragmented and multipolar world. The United States will continue to be the world’s leading superpower for a long time and the main guarantor of Norway’s security. No country challenges the role of the United States. Nevertheless, important countries point to a distance from Europe and the United States in issues of great importance for stability, democracy and human rights. It allows for major activisation which can quickly put international cooperation under pressure. Such rivalry makes it more difficult to agree on solutions to conflicts, from Syria to the South China Sea. At the same time, the shift of economic and political centre of gravity in the world is a natural and legitimate process. That emerging powers want more influence in the world is easy to understand. The multilateral system must reflect the world anno 2016, not 1945. We are also working systematically to get closer cooperation with regional organisations. In 2015, we entered into a broader partnership with ASEAN. We have also promised our strategic partnership with the African Union. It is also in Norway’s interest to normalise bilateral relations with China. Norway is served by countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America to see the multilateral order and the UN as relevant and beneficial to them. In the Norwegian-initiated project ‘FN70: A new agenda’, we are working to promote ideas and proposals for the next UN Secretary-General. Here we work with many countries, but especially with countries in the south. Our strategic work for a place in the United Nations Security Council for 2021-2022 continues. Norway's candidacy underlines our long-term commitment to the UN as an arena for the preservation and further development of international law. The second challenge is the gradual fragmentation of global trade regimes. The preservation and strengthening of the WTO is Norway’s primary commercial policy interest. Progress in the WTO meeting in Nairobi last December was therefore good news for Norway. But a more multipolar world makes it very difficult to create pooling solutions in the WTO. Powers use increasingly commercial policy energy in regional contexts outside the WTO, arenas where Norway is often not involved. A TTIP agreement can have major consequences for Norway, including: through the EEA Agreement. We are at risk of worsening the competition conditions of Norwegian industry in our main markets. Norway must meet the challenges of intelligence and commitment. The situation is not black and white. The growth rates of the major regional agreements are good news for Norway. Regionalisation is a logical response to global complexity. But regional agreements can quickly undermine global joint solutions if we only replace national walls with regional fortresses. Where the world is not ready for genuine multilateral solutions, we need to ensure that multinational agreements build bridges across regions – that it is not geography but the desire for cooperation, growth and development through open markets that define participation in new initiatives. The third challenge is the threat posed by global pandemics. We've made impressive progress in global health. Norway has been at the forefront of the last fifteen years of extensive investment and active political and professional work. Cross-political consensus and continuity at home have strengthened Norway’s influence globally. Child mortality is almost halved, primarily due to the strong progress in the control of HIV, malaria, and tuberculosis. But it has now become clear to all of us that poor health systems in poor countries pose serious safety challenges. Not only for the billions of people living in poor parts of the world, but also for us. Ebola was a serious alarm clock. The outbreak revealed significant deficiencies in global preparedness and capacity to deal with crises. Now it's the zika virus that challenges. Norway first contributed to the World Health Organisation’s appeal to strengthen its efforts to control the virus. Global health challenges require enhanced international cooperation. Norway is leading the way in many areas, not least in terms of setting up a global framework for the financing of research and development of new vaccines against pandemics as soon as possible. There is hardly a single major safety policy analysis that is no longer paying much attention to climate change. For low-lying countries, climate noise is existing. For the rest of us, it's a threat multiplier. The Paris Agreement of December last year was important and contributes to new delivery in international climate cooperation. Norway is leading many global initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Global forest activity remains a high priority. We are taking the lead in global projects to reduce flares and methane leakages from oil and gas production. Norway is also actively participating in global efforts to phase out subsidies to fossil fuels. As an energy and natural resource nation, Norway has much to contribute to global climate change work. We have to be predictable, we have to understand the framework conditions and the space for action for Norway, we have to be in the front line of research for new technologies, and we have to create good framework conditions for environmental and climate-friendly development. The basic tone of the year's presentation is mole vote. But it is important to stress that we meet the challenges with a strong starting point. There is consensus in the Storting on the main lines of foreign and security policy. Norway is facing global turbulence with a strong economy and a society based on trust and cohesion. It is crucial when economic downturns hit key industries along our coasts and drive forward in new sectors. We're going from specialty to conversion. A reason for optimism is the robust and agreed value base on which we stand together: freedom, democracy, human rights, equality and sustainable development. These are bearable values in Norwegian society and therefore also in Norwegian foreign policy. The more it storms around us, the more important it is to hold on to who we are and the values we build on. Therefore, it is also very important that the regional and global institutions built after World War II reflect these values. International law, including the United Nations Charter, the Law of the Sea, the Conventions on Human Rights, and environmental and climate agreements, are key elements of an international framework of fundamental importance to Norway. It is now 50 years since the adoption of the two central international human rights conventions. Unfortunately, protection and promotion of human rights continue to be at least as topical. We must be a clear voice defending fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of the press. Every government's main task is to secure our country and our inhabitants – to build security and wear and tear in the face of an increasingly unpredictable environment. The current situation shows how important it is always to prioritize defence. It's too late to do this when we really need it. Strong national defence must therefore form the basis of security policy. We must give priority to the most important thing; the defence of ourselves and our obligations in NATO. We also need to address the new global security threats. In a more demanding security policy environment, it is important that we stick to our friends and alliance partners. Norway's anchoring party in security policy is our NATO membership. At the same time, there is a broad awareness in NATO of Norway's contribution to joint security in the north. Through the basic link between the Member States — that one’s security is everyone’s — NATO is the most successful military alliance in history. The forthcoming summit in July will focus more on collective defence; NATO’s core task – how NATO needs to be broadly transformed into a new situation. It is symbolic that NATO meets in exactly Warsaw – the city where the Warsaw Pact was founded over 60 years ago. Given that Europe is under increasing pressure, NATO's cooperation with the EU will become an important theme in Warsaw. Towards the summit, Norway will call for an overall approach to security. The alliance may not choose between south and east, between land forces or maritime battle forces, or between deterrence or deterrence. The security needs of all allies must be taken seriously – and all allies must contribute. This, of course, also applies to developments in our part of Europe. Developments in the North Atlantic have implications for Norway and for NATO as a whole. NATO’s attention has recently been drawn to the north through allied exercises and training activities. This is important. The government will work towards the NATO Summit to strengthen NATO's maritime strategy, with great emphasis on the northern seas. In relations with Russia, clarity must be combined with actions from NATO to avoid dangerous incidents and increased tension. Here's Norway's a proponent. The most joyful thing about last year's disarmament front was the nuclear agreement with Iran. An important premise for the conclusion of the agreement was that Iran's lava-rich uranium was replaced by natural uranium. When we received a request from the United States to contribute, we saw it as a natural continuation of our work on disarmament and to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction. We provided technical expertise and contributed financially to the implementation of a central part of the nuclear agreement. Experts from the State Radiation Protection System verified and controlled the transport. The Norwegian contribution was important because it contributed to the implementation of the nuclear agreement earlier than would otherwise be the case. For several years, we have worked closely with the United Kingdom to verify disarmament. The work provides an important basis for future cuts in nuclear arsenals. Norway also has a leading position in the international cooperation on nuclear safety that President Obama in due course took the initiative. The Prime Minister will attend Obama's nuclear safety summit in Washington later this month. The government is systematically working to achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. Here we work concretely, long-term and along several tracks. The refugee crisis has increased the attention of the government to what we refer to as vulnerable states, in a broad belt of land from Mali in the west via the Horn of Africa and the Middle East to Afghanistan and Pakistan in the east. The development of these regions threatens European and Norwegian security. This requires action – courageous and innovative policy initiatives. It requires that we see all the instruments we have, in the context of diplomacy, security, military contributions, development and job creation, humanitarian efforts, the promotion of human rights and the assistance to build well-functioning institutions. Today’s challenges demand that we rethink development policies to reach the most vulnerable countries and to avoid the collapse of vulnerable countries — not at the expense of the poorest, but because this is the most effective way to reach the most vulnerable among the poor. Six out of 12 focus countries are vulnerable countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore now embarked on a separate strategy to collect efforts against vulnerable countries. Experience from Afghanistan to South Sudan shows that there are no plans for successful state-building in vulnerable countries. We must not believe that as outsiders we can create stable and peaceful societies. Everything we do needs to be anchored in national forces with the ability to control. The interaction between humanitarian and long-term aid needs to be strengthened. We need the economic muscles of developing banks. The United Nations has a particularly important role and Norway will continue to support a strengthened UN in vulnerable countries. Norwegian voluntary organisations are also key actors. Recent reviews of UN peace and security efforts underline that we need to improve conflict prevention and that women need to be involved. Norway is moving ahead to ensure that both men’s and women’s experiences and perspectives are taken seriously. Then the conflict analyses become real, and we ensure access to the breadth of possible solutions. – And in this work we must not forget the human rights: without fundamental rights – no stability over time. Work on stabilisation and development in vulnerable countries means higher risks than we experience in more stable developing countries. There is a greater risk of corruption and of projects failing. But we have to take the risk, because the risk of not doing anything is even greater. The Norwegian Peace and Reconciliation Policy is a priority area of policy which, with the new strategy, is given a fresh impetus – and an even stronger reason. At the same time, large resources will continue to be used to combat poverty and prevent conflict in other parts of Africa and Asia. The ambitious efforts in education, health, economic development and job creation continue and are highlighted. This is important in order to achieve the poorest and to achieve the UN's new sustainability targets. We must prevent poor countries that are currently stable and experience democratic development and economic growth from falling back into negative spirals of violence and conflict. Securing Norway and defending a multilateral order is not least about the ability of good diplomatic craftsmanship. Norway has a long tradition of making contributions – not only in terms of money but also competence – into important global processes, such as international maritime law, peace and reconciliation, humanitarian aid or efforts to create good international standards, such as climate negotiations. Norwegian foreign service and other Norwegian professional environments are often called on because we are known to be able to deliver. This competence is structured over time and contributes to making Norwegian foreign policy relevant and requested. I would like to conclude this year's presentation by pointing out ten specific areas in which Norway takes special responsibility: We're a solid alliance partner. The United States is Norway's most important allies. NATO is our security anchor. Our allies know they can trust Norway. We maintain our stable relationship with Russia. We continue to be a consistent and predictable neighbour of Russia. We sharpen the analytical tools and strengthen our Russian competence. We give priority to the northern regions. Our goal is that the northern regions remain a region characterised by cooperation and responsible resource management. We contribute heavily in Europe. Europe's challenges are our challenges. We contribute to everything from energy security through migration solutions and strategic use of EEA funds. We're preparing Norway for a world with increased economic focus in Asia. Continued well-being requires that we seize new opportunities and build relationships in emerging economies in the south and east. We are increasing the already extensive humanitarian aid and rates in vulnerable states. Never in recent times have humanitarian needs been greater. However, Norway has never contributed more. We are reforming and concentrating development policy. The number of beneficiary countries and aid agreements is reduced and the evaluation and performance requirements are strengthened. We continue the large-scale investment in education. Through the educational initiative, Norway has taken a global leadership to ensure education for all. We are further developing our active peace and reconciliation policy. Preventing conflict and war and contributing to the resolution of acute conflicts are cost-effective foreign policy. We continue to show way in international climate work. Norway was a driving force in getting the Paris Agreement in place, and now work on implementing it is under way. The primary objective of foreign policy is to safeguard and promote Norwegian interests – our values, our security, our well-being. The seriousness, the unrest and the unforeseeableness that I have explained today require clear thinking and wise action to promote Norwegian interests, invest in the values and the global framework to ensure that the right thing is ahead of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e452	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e470	The Arab Spring started in Tunisia. There you might say that the spring has become an Arab summer – unlike the other countries that had uprisings and upheavals: unfortunately you can talk about an Arab winter. It's impressive what Tunisia has done. It is a democratic process with active participation from civil society. Yes, four private organisations were in fact the driving force behind the process of creating a new and relatively very radical constitution — and provided the basis for stable, democratic institutions. In October we were informed that the four organizations, the so-called Quartet, had received the Nobel Peace Prize: the Tunisian LO, the employers' association, the Bar Association and the Tunisian Human Rights Organisation. The four contributed to the Constitution but, of course, made sure that the political institutions worked. The quartet itself was not out for political power. They contributed to Tunisia’s second republic having its first elected government on 6 February 2015. The national dialogue was established after the situation that arose after the first free elections in 2011. Three parties, the so-called troika, formed a collection government. The new Constitutional Assembly had one year to make a constitution and to implement new elections. Both the government's lack of experience in governing and the alarming blossoming of radical Islamist groups led to great unrest and new unrest in the country. The political killings of left-wing politicians Chokri Belaid and Mohamed Brahmi in 2013 resulted in the dissolution of the National Assembly. The quarter started when this extensive work started with a conversation round, and subsequently presented a road map requiring the government to leave as soon as a constitution had been passed, and a government had to take over until new elections had been completed. The new elected government was formed after Beju Caid Essebsi became the country's first free president. He was a Bourguiba man in his time. The same is true of both the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament. These are people who have crashed before and who have political and administrative experience. Everything looked pinkish. Foreign politicians and the media were impressed by the democratic process that had contributed to a new and radical constitution, a new parliament, a new president and a new government – the Arab summer. But the danger was lurking. The challenges were – and are – very great. The terrorist attacks against the Bardo Museum in the capital on 18 March and against a tourist hotel outside the town of Sousse on 26 June marked the first months of the new government. I was, on behalf of the presidency, in Tunisia and visited Parliament at the beginning of November last year. In addition to the meeting, including: I visited the Bardo Museum, the President of Parliament, women parliamentarians, the Prime Minister and the Quartet. I looked at the bullet holes centrally inside the museum and was reminded that Tunisian democracy is very fragile. In the east there are over a million Libyan refugees. They are relatively well integrated into the community. ISIL and other Islamists don't like the radical constitution, which gives women equality and Tunisia democratic rule. Now it should be said that already under Bourguiba in the 1960s, 1970s and part of the 1980s, women in Tunisia had a completely different position than in the countries around them, so this is to the extent of tradition. In the two terrorist attacks, 21 and 38 people were killed, respectively. All but one were Western tourists. The mandate of the security forces became more robust. That's what it's like -- and it's going to be. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said something like this: without human rights as a basis, there will be no stability in a country or region. That's true, but you can turn it upside down, because most countries also need growth, economic development and jobs. Tunisia needs jobs and value creation. Everyone I talked to, underlined this. Certainly, both private organisations and the President of Parliament were interested in the new national human rights institution established by the Stortinget. And I signed a joint seminar with the Norwegian Children's Ombudsman and UNICEF on equality and children's rights and a possible representative. But two things dominated the conversations. In addition to work and value creation, it was the security situation. This is related. Tunisia needs assistance, but they need foreign investment first and foremost. They need to stabilise the country in the region. The country has 40 p.m. youth unemployment, and these are very much newly educated academics. We have recently seen demonstrations in the streets of the capital — organized by impatient young people without work. Tunisia is still in a critical phase. They are now the country that operates democratically after the Arab Spring, but both in Tunisia and beyond the borders of the country, many work so that they do not succeed. We have a responsibility, the European Union has a responsibility – Europe has a responsibility at all. Tunisia needs jobs for her impatient youth, and they desperately need tourists to come back after the terrorist attacks last year. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what policy the Ministry of Foreign Affairs currently has in giving advice on tourism to Tunisia. It was almost touching to be taken out to some of the most important Celebre places to show me that Tunisia has so much to show up: a great cultural heritage to exploit. Here lies Carthage, here's history from the Roman Empire. Look at the map – the country is not many kilometres, not to say meters, from Italy and the centre of power of the Roman Empire. I know that the EU has growing cooperation with Tunisia. We should be able to be drivers here. Tunisia is on its way to an inclusive and democratic society. It's great to see how Tunisian civil society, the political parties, employers and the labour movement have come together to create a new democracy. Tunisia's progress is a bright spot in a gloomy image in North Africa and the Middle East following the political upheavals in 2011. The neighbouring Libya is currently without a central state formation and has become a paradise for human traffickers. We heard in the Foreign Minister's presentation the descriptions of the unstable region, the civil war in Syria and the dissolution of many of the states of the old Ottoman Empire. What initiative has the Minister for Foreign Affairs taken and will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take, possibly in cooperation with the EU, to contribute to the stabilisation and strengthening of Tunisia in the region? In addition, since we in the United Kingdom are currently dealing with a very central and interesting report on industrial development in development cooperation: use strategic partnerships to stimulate Norwegian industry to become increasingly established in Tunisia? I know about companies that are about to establish themselves in Tunisia. Not least companies are working with new energy to generate climate-friendly energy. There are also institutions, such as the Children's Ombudsman and other public bodies, which are trying to contribute to increased democracy and not least to the creation of development, growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e509	First, thank you to the representative Nybakk for putting Tunisia on the agenda and for her commitment over several years in the case of Tunisia. As the representative had said, although Tunisia is now in the midst of a very difficult situation, the country has succeeded in many ways where others have failed, at least if you compare with some other countries in the region. But the country is still in a frantic phase, and it is in a particularly demanding and troubled neighbourhood. Tunisia has a lot to be proud of: a new and modern constitution, a successful implementation of democratic elections and not least a well-deserved peace prize, where the Quartet showed a whole world that the road to peace is going through dialogue. Tunisia is an example of including all population groups in a democratic reform process – including those with whom you disagree. Tunisia has shown courage by choosing dialogue and compromise rather than polarisation and continuing conflict. Cooperation between secular and moderate Islamists is a model that should inspire others. So far, Tunisia has been the country that has been most successful in continuing the process of democratization after the Arab Spring. But much is at stake, as the representative Nybakk was involved, and the impatience is great. The road ahead poses significant challenges, both political, economic and safety. The tasks are in line with the Tunisian Government. The right balance must be found between security measures and instruments that stimulate job creation and economic activity. The main tourist industry suffers from brutal and widespread terrorist attacks. Progress must be made in legal settlement and reconciliation and in ensuring further democratic and fair development. It is vital that the youth of Tunisia do not lose faith in the future. If Tunisia fails, it will have consequences for neighbouring countries as well as for Europe. Norway supports Tunisia in this transition process, and we want to strengthen our commitment, among other things. in cooperation with the UN and the EU. The weakening of state control and the emergence of extreme movements pose a serious threat to stability in the Middle East and North Africa. Norway and the EU have a common interest in sustainable stability in Europe’s southern neighbourhood, based on a good partnership between countries north and south of the Mediterranean. We are following the EU neighbourhood policy with great interest. Norway will do more with the EU. We contribute to the EU fund for North Africa, where the aim is to contribute to stability through concrete projects. The migration and security challenges in the Mediterranean region need to be seen in a close context with the need for a long-term cooperation and development agenda in North Africa and Sahel. The government has recently launched a reinforced effort to support vulnerable countries. It is natural that Tunisia is part of this work. In the wake of the Arab Spring, Norway entered early with support for democratic transformation in Tunisia. In 2015, we doubled our support for the country. Norwegian contributions have concentrated to a large extent on democratisation measures, rights work and support for inclusive economic growth and job creation, which the representative Nybakk was also involved in. We have supported the Council of Europe's important work on Tunisia's new constitution. It is recognised by many as the most modern constitution in the Arab world. This is a type of support that gets good advice from Tunisian partners. We have therefore decided to continue our support for the work of the Council of Europe. We also contribute to the Mediterranean Union, one of the very few organisations working regionally in North Africa. For example, the Mediterranean Union has supported female entrepreneurs in cross-border projects. This type of cooperation is also important for regional stability. We have recently concluded an agreement with the United Nations Development Fund on support for Tunisia's work on security sector reform and transitional justice and the follow-up to the constitutional work. Over the years, we have contributed strategic support to civil society in the cultural and media sectors. Norway should use its resources to support areas of society in which we have experience and competence of special value and interest to the recipients. An example is our support for the ILO's efforts to promote social dialogue and strengthen employment policies in Tunisia, in cooperation with the social partners. The NHO and the LO have been involved in this cooperation. Cooperation has played an important role in the design of the social contract between the Tunisian authorities and the social partners. It was an important milestone in the overall democratisation process and prepared the basis for further cooperation between the social partners and other civil society organisations in the now well-known Quartet. Norway has recently supported several Norwegian actors, such as SINTEF, ILPI and the Sahara Forest Project, to support Tunisia with capacity building and job creation. In this way, we hope that Norwegian institutions and businesses will be able to help create new solutions in Tunisia and contribute to knowledge transfer and new, forward-looking jobs, as the interpellant also called for in his article. Together with Norwegian business, we want to contribute to local value creation in the country. Tunisia needs more than assistance. Tunisia needs peace in Libya and the other neighbouring countries and stability in the region. The United States’ last air raid in Libya, which primarily hit Tunisian foreign fighters, shows the complexity of Tunisia. A further deterioration in the situation in Libya is the greatest threat to stability in Tunisia. Therefore, progress in the UN-led peace process in Libya is crucial. Norway supports the work of Special Representative Kobler. We are ready to contribute to stabilisation and institution building. This will not only help Libya, but be a valuable contribution to the stabilisation of Tunisia and the rest of the region. It is important to stress that Tunisia itself must take its many reforms further, not least the important work in the area of anti-corruption. The international community can support the reforms — as Norway does — but Tunisia must implement them. The country has achieved a lot, but is facing a demanding balance. A key message from the international community is that stability is not opposed to democracy – stability and an inclusive society are two sides of the same coin. It is a mistake to believe that you can have stable states without a good governance. Security and good governance seem mutually reinforcing to each other. This is a crucial message throughout the Middle East and North Africa, and it must continue to be repeated against Tunisia. This important premise will be used as a basis for the new government's commitment to vulnerable countries, which will also include support for Tunisia.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e541	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. That was a very good answer, and I am very pleased with the measures that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken both in terms of contributing to stability, in terms of development, in terms of aid, and in terms of providing support to women entrepreneurs. All these are measures that are very good, and for me, it is important that Norway has growing economic cooperation with Tunisia. The Nobel Committee said about last year's peace prize that the Peace Prize winners would spread the glimpse of hope and development into a flamed region. Yes, she can. It presupposes the strengthening and stabilisation of Tunisia in the region and, once again, requires a will in Europe to contribute to such stabilisation, which in turn contributes to both jobs and well-being. I heard in November that the announcement – and after each distribution – of the Peace Prize would focus on Tunisia both in Europe and globally. That was the great hope, and it was the expectations of the results of the peace prize – that more investment and more assistance could then be provided. In January, the country experienced riots and demonstrations from impatient unemployed young people. Many were injured in clashes with the police, and unfortunately there was a night ban imposed throughout the country. In fact, workplaces are the best weapon against chaos and terror and to prevent Islamist groups from progressing. Democratic processes and progress in democracy are always fragile and vulnerable. Democratic institutions, a popular assembly and independent courts are important and necessary pillars. But daily people are going to have food, the children are going to be allowed to go to school, the mothers are going to have the right to sexual and reproductive health, to safe births and to the dignity of a human being to have a job to go to. This is important for the development of a society. It's easy to forget Tunisia in a region where the focus is on Syria, on countries in disintegration and on an almost unmanageable refugee situation. But if we don't make economic progress for Tunisia, it can easily get even worse in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e554	As I also underlined in my reply to the interpellant in my previous post, we have also increased our investment in Tunisia aidably – it is actually doubled – but it is going to happen strategically, not least through entrepreneurship and women, by strengthening democracy, human rights and anti-corruption work. Then, as the inter-pellant also pointed out, it is essential that we now use that investment and partnership with the private sector in Tunisia. Tunisia is a country with a huge potential for receiving investment, and encouraging more investment that creates jobs, and providing incentives for this through good Norwegian aid schemes, is something we come back to when presenting the strategy that is linked to vulnerable countries. Tunisia may not by definition be a vulnerable country, but it's at least surrounded by very vulnerable states, and we have to prevent it from leading to Tunisia too in the same category. Tunisia is one of the countries where most have travelled as foreign warriors, several thousand, to Syria and Iraq, and several of these have returned. It has contributed to the demanding safety picture in Tunisia, which in turn has led to many countries issuing travel councils, i.e. has initially refused to travel to Tunisia until the safety situation improves. These are all the questions we now need to look at in the future, how we are going to manage assistance and possibly further escalation to Tunisia in a strategic way, and I also welcome the different input of Stortingen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e561	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question about Tunisia. It is now five years since the beginning of the Arab Spring – the Middle East and North Africa were sent out in a popular uprising with demands for reform. It began in Tunisia and spread over weeks to Egypt, Yemen, Bahrain, Libya, and Syria. Authoritarian leaders such as Mubarak in Egypt and Ben Ali in Tunisia were appointed. We were many who hoped for new governance that would create political reforms for a better future in the countries of the region. Today, unfortunately, the reality of the region is quite different. Political unrest, economic decline, popular frustration over corruption and power abuse and migratory flows prevail. The unsustainable humanitarian situation in the civil war in Syria has still not been resolved, the war in Yemen as well. The conflict is driving people on the run and has led millions into exile to neighbouring countries and to Europe. At the same time, the situation attracts foreign fighters. Terrorist groups such as ISIL, the Al-Nusra front, Al-Qaida networks and Boko Haram have brought fear to the region, and the authorities in many countries have problems preventing them. The Minister of Foreign Affairs presented this picture in his presentation earlier today. He also presented the historically large Norwegian humanitarian effort through the Syria Conference and Norway’s efforts through contributions to the nuclear coalition against ISIL. Tunisian legislators were able to avoid abusing the violence that has thrown other Arab Spring countries into major crises. Tunisia is in that context a leading country. The country has progressed most in the democratic process in the region and has taken the necessary steps. Freedom of speech, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly are in place. In 2014, free elections were held and local elections are planned this year. Tunisia has established itself as an important partner in the development of the neighbourhoods, in the Mediterranean region in general and up towards the Arab world. With strong ties to the EU and as one of NATO’s dialogue countries, Tunisia has the tools needed to promote trade and peace in the outside world. Tunisia's new constitution, unlike most Arab states, does not give Islamic law precedence, even though it notes that the country is Arab and Muslim. It guarantees religious freedom and confirms Tunisia's commitment to universal human rights. At the same time, Tunisia's future is fragile. The country is at the forefront of its new future and deserves all the international recognition we can give it from the international community. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned in his statement which investments and cooperation Norway has entered into with Tunisia. Support for civil society, trade, investment and education will be central to Tunisia and to the region. It will be important to consolidate and strengthen this work in order to ensure the progress of countries and democratic pluralism. There are many actors in Tunisia who have made a great effort to take the country through the Arab Spring. The dialogue prompt has been brought up in this process. The Nobel Prize was a support to those peacemakers who, through consensus and in a critical phase of Tunisia’s history, succeeded. It was a support to Tunisia's civil society, to the common man and woman for their struggle against the political elite. For the Tunisians, winning the Nobel Prize was a great honor, while worrying about where the political transition was going. Throughout history we have seen many dictatorships fall, but we have seen few democracies rise. The closest thing we're going to do is Tunisia. Now dialogue and compromise are at the heart of the process. That is why I would like to join the inter-pellant and the foreign minister's support for Tunisia and its democratic future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e580	First, I would like to thank the interpellant, Marit Nybakk, for raising a very important and topical matter. Tunisia has achieved important democratic milestones. At the same time, the country is challenged by a deep economic crisis and is vulnerable to security. The left considers that Norway should step up support for Tunisia, in particular as regards measures contributing to economic growth, security, strengthening civil society and good governance. Such support is in Norway’s interest and in line with a foreign policy that promotes countries that respect human rights and democracy. In a short time, Tunisia has achieved a stronger democratic development than any other country affected by the Arab Spring. Reforms include the introduction of a new liberal constitution, more free elections and peaceful transfer of power between elected governments. At the same time, there is a gloomy backbone: the IS has carried out a series of terrorist attacks in Tunisia, the economy is at odds, and unemployment, especially among young people, is increasing sharply. Tunisia is vulnerable to safety. As we have heard earlier in the debate, over a million Libyans have fled to Tunisia, and weapons and terrorist networks are relatively unhindered across the border between the two countries. Several thousand have joined IS and other terrorist organisations, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. The terrorist attack in the tourist town of Sousse in the summer of 2015, where 20 tourists were killed, caused enormous damage to an already difficult economic situation. Many countries, including Norway, have since abandoned their citizens to travel to Tunisia. This has resulted in a loss of income for the tourism industry. Further economic decline may detract from Tunisia's belief in the democracy they have just introduced, and the government's security and anti-terrorism measures can bring it back to more authoritarian governance. In the shadow of the acute humanitarian crisis in Syria and Iraq, Tunisia's challenges are very likely not to be prioritised by the international community. But leaving the country to itself can turn out to be a big mistake. Investment will be seen as a recognition of the reforms that have taken place. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to several areas where Norwegian institutions and organisations contribute positively in Tunisia. That's good. Private sector partnerships are important. Concrete cooperation and increased trade with the only country in the region that has so far been strengthened through the Arab Spring will be noticed far beyond the borders of Tunisia. Europe is the main trading partner for Tunisia, but it is struggling with high customs barriers when exporting, among other things, olive oil. By providing Tunisia with duty-free and quota-free access to the Norwegian market, Norway can contribute to supporting the reforms. In addition, Norway should work towards extending the current negotiations on EU-Tunisia free trade agreements to EEA and EFTA countries. The Left believes that further efforts should be made to give Tunisia the same trade status as the 90 low and medium-income countries that currently have duty-free and quota-free market access for all its products to Norway through the so-called GSP scheme. It is necessary to provide assistance to improve the safety situation in the tourism sector in order to allow Norway and Europe in the long term to lift the advice to travel to Tunisia. It is also important that Tunisian authorities are offered broad cooperation to strengthen civil society and that funds and transfer of competences are provided in the work towards radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e599	The Roman senator Cato the elder must have finished all his speeches by saying: otherwise I think Carthage should be destroyed. Carthage in present Tunisia was seen as a threat to Roma. It is said that the city was a lively and powerful port town surrounded by fertile agricultural areas. The Romans destroyed Carthage up to several times. Let's now contribute to the destruction of today's Tunisia. In the fall, I had the pleasure of attending a trip to Tunisia under the auspices of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. We also visited the remains of Carthage on the outskirts of the capital of Tunis. Tunisia can play an important role in the region. That is why it is also interesting in a security policy perspective. I agree with all those who say – both in the debate here today and in general – that Tunisia has done a lot of good in recent years. The transition from one party state under, I think we can say, the direct leadership of President Ben Ali – it was probably over 20 years – to democracy with new constitution after the Arab Spring is impressive and an example of the succession of other countries in the region. At the same time, however, we must realise that the country has major challenges. So when we say that it's going well in Tunisia, because it's doing it in many areas, it's probably one of the reasons why we're comparing it to neighboring countries where things don't go so well at all. For example, Tunisia has a very high unemployment, it also mentioned the interpellant, and when I visited there in the fall talking to people, many said they had only one dream, and it was getting to Europe. A lot of young people said that. And it's not a good sign to a country that the youth wants to go away. Tunisia has a long way to go, but at the same time it's uplifting, because they're on the go, and they've made some very important and right choices. It is in the interest of Europe and Norway that Tunisia should succeed. They should therefore be based on their progress. It is quite obvious that in some areas they want to look at how we have developed our governance, especially in areas that have to do with cooperation between the social partners and the kind of issues to do. It's complicated to build a democracy. We have spent a long time, many decades, in Norway building our country. Perhaps we can help Tunisia on their way. Cato got what he wanted. Carthage was destroyed. Let's help Tunisia not to be destroyed. Let's support Tunisia on their journey.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e614	Five years ago, the eyes of the world were directed toward North Africa and the Middle East, toward young people who flowed to the streets and peacefully demonstrated for justice, democracy and work. Dictatorships fell, and the region was filled with belief in the future. When I traveled around with the Workers' Party and AUF that year, I said that this was going to be our time's Berlin wall: the weeks and months when the world was going to change most, the moments we could look back at and think that history was being created. And in many ways it turned out to be true. The world was very changed, but quite the opposite of what we hoped. The people hoped for democracy, optimism and peace, but we have got the opposite. Now we see a Libya where there are stateless states. We see that the assault continues in Bahrain. We see that the generals are back in the Presidential Palace in Cairo, and in Syria we see the worst situation since World War II. The world's eyes must be aimed at these: the victims of war, those who are being attacked in the region, all those who are fleeing in Syria, in neighbouring countries and here in Europe. How can we help them as best we can, support them? And most importantly, how can we help create a political solution? We have to be there for those who have the worst, but we also have to be there for those who have the better. That is why I am very pleased that Marit Nybakk has taken the initiative in this debate, and for the work she has done as Vice President, where she has had contact with politicians in Tunisia. I also welcome the answers given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on how we can support them in the future. Because it's so easy to just be present where it burns the most. We must continue to be there for those who have had a positive development, both because the challenges are many and because the risk of it going wrong is still so great – but also in order to curb extremism, and to join in and support democratic forces in neighbouring countries that are at war. Supporting neighbouring countries such as Tunisia must be part of a comprehensive plan in the fight against extremism and violence. Norway should do more to support Tunisia. We should do more so that they can contribute and secure growth and work for their young people. We should take the initiative ourselves or support others. We should also discuss how we can be more involved and support the political processes that are taking place – Norway as a country – but also how we can support the civil society cooperation that has emerged. Norwegian LO has had a close relationship with the Tunisian trade movement for many years. In December, the NHO signed an agreement with the Tunisian employers’ organisation. In the Workers' Party, we want to connect more closely with our Tunisian sister party, Ettakatol, because civil society plays a crucial role in creating democracy and ensuring stability. That is why I am pleased that last year's budget debate, the Storting rejected the government's proposal for a large cut to civil society organisations. Support for civil society should not be reduced. We should do more for Tunisia because the road to stability is still long. There are many factors that can destroy. But in addition to supporting them, we should also take the initiative to discuss how we as international societies can learn from Tunisia. What can we learn from what has happened? Why did they get it in Tunisia? What have they done on the road from dictatorship to democracy? That's why I, along with my colleague Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, nominated the dialogue Quartet at the Nobel Peace Prize last year, because the world should honor and learn from those who have earned it. It was the civil society organisations in Tunisia that received the Peace Prize. Civil society is perhaps the most important factor in developing democracy. History has taught us so much too well that democracy is something very different than the absence of a dictator. It wasn't new in Tunisia. We saw the same thing in South Africa, where the trade union movement and church organizations were the ones who stood clear when apartheid fell, and in South America, where the trade movement was central when military dictatorships were developed into progressive democracies. I would like the Foreign Minister to say something more about what we can use as learning experiences from Tunisia. How can we use the positive development in Tunisia for inspiration for neighbouring countries and for the rest of the world? It's impressive what Tunisia has done. In December the whole world looked to them during the Nobel Days and honored the Quartet or really the entire Tunisian people. It was great, and it was important. But much more important is that we continue to be there, helping in our way, according to their needs, to strengthen democracy and stability. Several countries should do this. Norway should be one of those countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e629	I would like to thank you for a fine debate and not least for a great interest in Tunisia's success. It means that we keep focusing on Tunisia, so it's also important to take such a debate in the main hall. Thanks also to the representatives of Åsmund Aukrust and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås for nominating the Quartet at the Nobel Peace Prize. So to what Åsmund Aukrust said, about what we can really learn from Tunisia. Can we learn something when we also work with other countries? What can you learn from being able to go from a dictatorship to a democracy in a calm way and get a constitution, a parliament, a elected government, a elected president, so hopefully to move forward? The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech that Tunisia must continue its reforms on its own. Yes, that's right, Tunisia has to do, but what we can contribute to is that we can support and facilitate both welfare development with assistance and other measures, and also by facilitating the establishment of Norwegian industry. We can provide support for framework conditions to assist with democratic institutions, such as: children's representations, human rights institutions, etc. We can not only strengthen women's rights as they are actually enshrined in the Constitution, but may not always be respected in daily life. One thing is the capital city of Tunis, or, for that matter, Carthage, but there are communities in border areas where the situation of women is considerably more difficult than in central areas, so this with women's rights can be something that should be given priority in assistance to Tunisia. When it comes to developing renewable energy, I know that there are Norwegian renewable energy projects working in Tunisia. Here, Sintef is involved, along with private companies. This is a cooperation I think can work very well, but that also requires framework conditions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Shipyard took up trading, and he even mentioned the GSP scheme. All countries with economic development, or economic development, also need trade to assist with it. Farstad also said that there is a danger that Tunisia will not be given priority to the challenges in the region. Let's keep the debate on Tunisia alive, so they won't be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e643	I agree with the inter-pellant's conclusion that this has been a good and important debate, not least in order to avoid a situation where Tunisia is forgotten. Tunisia still has major challenges, but the fragile democracy and the positive development we have seen after all, we must also help in the continuation. As I said in my previous post, Tunisia is also an important part of the strategy that we want to put forward, to strengthen the Maghreb bet, that is, the whole of North Africa, the Sahel belt and the Levant. As I also insisted, we have doubled the effort in Tunisia, however from a low level, in recent years. To the last time the representative Nybakk was involved, last year we supported concrete economic actors such as SINTEF and The Sahara Forest Project. The NHO and the International Law and Policy Institute, ILPI, have also received support, and we have used the UN Population Fund to work with not least a women’s crisis centre – and the ILO, which plays an important role in promoting social dialogue and strengthening employment policies in Tunisia. I agree with Mr Nybakk that this issue of women's rights is also important outside Tunis. Tunis is much more developed and is the engine of much of the economic development, and we also have to look at the other areas. We must also continue – as the August representative was involved in – to ensure democracy and rights. There, I believe that this cooperation with the Council of Europe on both a new constitution and other work that contributes to increasing capacity in the areas of human rights, compliance and social stability becomes essential. As I made clear in my speech, and which is important, stability is not opposed to democracy. Stability and an inclusive society are two sides of the same coin. With the discussion I've seen going on today, it's very important for me to stress that at least that's the government's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e656	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e670	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, up to 5 minutes of speaking time is proposed to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the political groups and from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e683	Today, we are going to deal with a very important message, a message that concerns public broadcasting and media pluralism. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee and all those who have been involved in the discussions around the communication, and who have contributed to one's achieving unanimous consolation today, with some additions and reinforcements, most of them also unanimous. Why is this message very important? Well, as the subtitle – Open and Enlightened – is concerned, this is about one of the fundamentals of our democracy. I used to call it general programming and media pluralism for democratic infrastructure, and that's what it is -- an infrastructure we use over 7 billion. kr for each year. There are a little over five million people who speak Norwegian, there are a little over five million people who feel like part of Norwegian culture, there are a little over five million people who need information and news, who deserve debate and analysis, and who are going to be sure that power is being looked at in the cards. We have a bigger media diversity than ever. Never have we had more channels to choose from, never has it been easier to get information, and never have so many fought for our attention. But it is no longer just a national competition for attention. Providers are also international – HBO, Netflix, Google and BBC. There's nothing wrong with any of them, but they'll never offer every time we meet, the debate, or the new one. The Norwegian market is challenged by giants, and the one that gathered us before, for example. Barn TV or Sportsrevyen, is now just a small fragment in a jungle of offers. The Norwegian market will continue to provide quality entertainment and news. But a good part of the open and enlightened conversation is under pressure. It is not a market for it, in the proper sense of the word, advertisers or buyers do not bring enough money into the marketplace to carry out the search for languages, the dissemination of culture and the analysis. Here, maybe a few stalls, but fortunately, there's a broad consensus that we need media diversity, that there's a need for offers to narrow groups, and offers that don't necessarily translate into heads and ears directly. We spend billions of dollars on this media diversity in Norway today. There is direct support over the government budget of a bundle of selected media, which is required in so-called licensing by sending an invoice to those who have television sets, given in discounts on distribution in pig-grown strips, given to institutions for further training or to other institutions for discretionary distribution, and given in the form of a neutral deduction, so-called zero VAT. All in all, it's over 7 billion. kr. Some of the schemes are over 50 years old and have not changed much. Others, like the zero-moms, are smoking fresh. The question is, if we think we're going to sit down today and start over with 7 billion. kr for distribution to media diversity – would we do it just the way we do it today? Would we choose a bunch of publications and give money directly to them? We would spend 150 million. kr to send out invoices and check and knock on the doors and ask if people have TV in their houses? I don't think so. Or, I'm pretty sure we didn't want it. I think instead we had sat down and thought in principle and neutrally. We hadn't become ownership, channel, media or platform. We'd instead have thought, how can we, for these seven billion dollars? kr, few diversity and quality that takes care of our language, mediates our culture, gives us the debate and analysis and ensures that power is looked into in the cards? And yet another perspective, which has become very topical in recent years: media pluralism and public broadcasting are also an important element of integration. We need to facilitate the media diversity of the future, without political interference in the form of budget negotiations in late night hours, without bureaucracy, without costly collection mechanisms, without hanging ourselves in the name of TV2 or NRK and concepts such as paper newspapers or online newspapers. For many decades we have been patching up and developing existing support systems, something that has been done for years with the DOS operating system – for those of us who remember it – before one day you found out that it was actually better to scrap that system and start it again. Today's many public money schemes for media pluralism are somewhat similar to the old operating system. It's starting to approach ready for scrapping when we get the new one in place bit by bit. With this message, we have taken a first step towards a more principled approach to media pluralism in Norway. There is another job that needs to be done, but binding to the old models is hardly the way to go. Who knows what the providers are called in the future? Who knows what the next platform is? Our task as politicians is to facilitate media pluralism, not to facilitate individual actors. The notification concerns many important elements and is a snapshot of the current situation, while pointing forward in some areas. One also gives clear feedback to the government about which specific issues the Storting believes it is important to put extra pressure on in the future. In some areas, there is also a reinforced communication, with the additions agreed on, both in terms of making sports events of national interest available, strengthening the understanding of Nordic languages, universal design and presence across the country, to mention something. These are the results of good talks between the various parties in the process until we stand here today, and this policy area also deserves broad consensus. It is, as the democratic infrastructure it is, too important for us to spend a lot of time arguing about trifles. The notification points to the work undertaken also with regard to the future financing of a public broadcaster, as well as the importance of having a commercial provider. There is a consensus that having two actors together to make each other better, such as the reality of the day, is a good thing. by means of news media. Today, the NRK has a special position and is Norway’s main media centre. It might be like that in 10 years, too, and maybe in 20 years. TV 2 is the commercial generalcaster today and has delivered quality for more than 20 years – perhaps in 20 years. But we, the Storting, must in any case have a principle approach. We want a publicly funded public broadcaster, we want an advertising-funded public broadcaster. Today they're called NRK and TV 2 – what they're called in 20 years, we don't know exactly what they're called. The term ‘public broadcasting’ may also be deleted. The traditional broadcasting concept is originally linked to signals sent from one antenna to another antenna. In the future, we will continue to consume text, sound and image – it will be produced, it will be disseminated – but the old and new media and the old and new distribution methods are increasingly melting. So it's becoming increasingly important to talk about media pluralism rather than the concept of public broadcasting. Our task is to facilitate that in our small language area, we get a quality offer that preserves diversity. If we keep thinking about newspaper, radio and television and believe that's what the future looks like, we're already making a loss there. Today's message is a small step on the way. We need to ensure what we have today, while putting further pressure on processes that are already in progress. But it's important that we don't believe that we're getting rid of the solutions today. We've started this far. Tomorrow's media diversity should also include the campfires we gather around, which gives us common references in a world of very rapid change. We need what's gathering. We need to feel the swelling pride we did when Bjørn Dæhlie waved over the finish line and finally won a five-mile. We have a lot of the madness we're getting loose when little Norway beats Brazil in football World Cup. We have a good feeling of shame, but a little enlightened when Trond-Viggo taught us intimate details about our body – also the things we don't dare ask adults about. Norway is a small country. The media diversity costs. We have to make the best possible arrangements. And rarely has the conservative idea ‘change to preserve’ been more relevant. We need to change our media policy to preserve diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e721	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e724	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good cooperation on the agreement reached in this matter. In the agreement, the batches agreed on two tracks for commercial public broadcasting. One is that a temporary agreement must be put in place immediately, and the other is that the government must take the initiative to ensure commercial public broadcasting in Bergen for the future, by the end of 2016. Meanwhile, the Minister of Culture has been visiting Bergen and has created uncertainty about how the government wants to deal with this matter. In a chronicle in the Official Journal of Bergen, the Minister of Culture writes that all members of the Grand Committee, except the Labour Party, refer to the Media Diversity Committee and the Expert Committee, and that the majority believes that ‘we should wait for the samples before concluding’. Do we have an agreement, or do we not have an agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e733	Thank you for the question. I think it is important to deal with the text that we are dealing with today, and there I feel that we agree, and have agreed. It is important, as a unanimous remark says, that a temporary agreement be put in place as quickly as possible, and it is important, as the proposal for Decision VI of the Agreement and the Communication say, to ensure that an initiative is taken to set up a model for a future commercial broadcasting model. And I'm absolutely sure the government is going to work on everything that suits and clothes can hold to sign out what the Storting is ordering today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e738	I thank you for your answer. It is quite obvious that the Minister of Culture must have misunderstood what is in the position, because it is quite clear from what the Minister of Culture writes that she believes that the majority in the Committee has expressed the need to wait for the two selections, i.e. for the media diversity committee, which is the last selection to be put to the vote – on 1 March next year – before concluding. It's no wonder, I think, that the parties at Stortinget and the Bergens environment are worried about what signals this sends. I am pleased that the rapporteur now states that it is the text of the Stortinge, including that of the Minister for Culture, that it must be the Minister for Culture who has misunderstood. I just want Kårstein Eidem Løvaas now to confirm that the dialogue with the Minister of Culture has been established, so that we can avoid future uncertainties about these two issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e747	Thank you again for the question from the representative of Grande. In the media, there is also the fine thing that politicians in between get a little annoyed about, that journalists write and interpret — sometimes by their own head and sometimes by the influence of their sources. I think that there is a consensus that the text we are discussing and adopting today in Stortinget is the text that underlies. There is nowhere in the message to wait for anything. What it says, on the other hand, is that you have to see things in context. I think that is important – it is important to look at both the work of the Committee of Experts, the work of the Committee on Media Diversity and the proposals we are adopting today in the context. I am absolutely sure that the representative of Grande agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e756	I fully agree with that. And I can agree with this that you can often feel drawn in both the one and the other direction after editing from a journalist – sometimes you may also appear better than you initially were. But the starting point was the Council of State's own chronicle – it's in the Council of State's own text it says that the majority of the Stortinget therefore believes 'that we should wait for the samples before we conclude'. That's what makes us uncertain. Once again, I just have to ask, so that one does not talk away from the problem here: Is the contact with the Council of State established, so that we do not get more signals from the Council of State spreading uncertainty about the progress of this crucial part of the agreement we have concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e761	I appreciate the fact that the representative of Grande refers to me as if it were me who had written the chronicles of the Council of State. I think it will give the representative the opportunity to ask the Council of State these questions a little bit later. I think the representative Grande and I agree. There is a text in the form of a note – both a majority comment and a unanimous committee comment. In addition, there are 12 proposals for decisions in the vote. Eight of these are unanimous; the others are a broad majority behind. And they're very clear: there's going to be a temporary agreement. Thereafter, an initiative on how to ensure a future commercial public broadcaster in Norway is to be brought back, and it will come by the end of 2016. So I don't think there's any doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e768	I thought this was reasonable clarification. Some of the backstops of the discussion we've had lately have been a series of games from different politicians in the Right and the Advance Party, not least about the future of the NRK. The representative Eidem Løvaas was one of those who contributed to a wide-ranging debate in the months prior to the presentation of the public broadcast message, with his reports on the future of the NRK. So I was tempted to ask the representative Eidem Løvaas what he thinks in the spring of 2016 about Eidem Løvaas's performances in spring 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e776	I think – with the risk of talking about myself in the third person, I don't think that's very dressy – I can do very well for the message and what we're presenting today. At the same time, I don't remember any playoffs in the past that it won't be possible to defend. Among other things, as far as I remember – if that is what it is referred to – it was a highly thought about future funding of the NRC. It is a work that still needs to be done – it is an expert committee that will bring a case to the Stortinget. With the exception of one of the parties at Stortinget, I have the impression that no one has concluded in this case. So discussing this and thinking loudly about this I didn't think that was problematic then, and I don't think that's problematic now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e783	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e786	When Marit Bjørgen takes to the tears after having asked in to OL-gold, when the joiners wave to the ‘Summer boat’ from every nest along the coast, or when major news events are covered with vivid images and thorough analyses on both NRK and TV 2, then we are gathered. When you create applications that don't reach so many, but that means a lot to those who watch, everyone is included. And when people throughout our long-term country get news and entertainment from their local environments, Norway connects. The public broadcasters are our main common meeting places. One of the reasons Norway is today one of the most open and functioning democracies in the world is media pluralism. Public broadcasting plays an important role here. There was therefore a great deal of tension associated with the big message before it was submitted before the summer last year. However, the downturn became great. The government left the two main issues in the field of public broadcasting in the future, namely future funding of the NRC and new agreements ensuring commercial public broadcasting in Bergen, unsolved. There were two samples put down, and our fear has been that the government wants to push both of these two things into the next big period. We believe it would be a big chance game, especially in terms of commercial public broadcasting, and have therefore wanted to contribute to faster progress. I am very pleased that we have reached a comprehensive agreement on public broadcasting that ensures that the NRK is making the economy do all the tasks that we expect from a public broadcaster, and that there is still to be a commercial public broadcaster in Bergen. I would like to thank all the partners for their constructive and good work. Only the Progress Party has chosen to say no to joining the agreement. Norway is a long-distance country. In order to maintain living communities in all the country's crickets and hooks, it is important that there are journalists where people live. For this reason, the majority of the Committee states that the NRC should also be present in all counties in the future. We refer to today's NRK poster and want the following adjustments: ‘The day’s access to online advertising should be eliminated and the importance of performing the public broadcasting mission on the network should be elaborated and clarified. A requirement to be present in all counties should be included and an independent responsibility to contribute to media pluralism should be underlined. In addition, the NRK’s preparedness responsibilities must be specified in the poster.’ We therefore ask the government to make a new proposal for the NRK poster where these principles are respected. The Norwegian music industry faces several challenges that could potentially affect the exposure and consumption of Norwegian music. The NRK is today a dominant player on radio, and the NRK radio channels are very uproaring among the listeners. After the closure of the FM and the transition to the DAB, it's only NRK we can in the future raise cultural policy expectations. We support the Communication's proposal that the obligation to send Norwegian music be increased, and we believe that a proportion of this should also be considered as Norwegian-speaking music. We want the NRK to be obliged to take greater responsibility for raising new talents and local artists, for example. in the district consignments. And in order to take care of some of the things that gather most people, namely major sporting events, we have agreed that the most important sporting events will continue to be broadcast directly by a public broadcaster or another open channel in the future. The fact that we also have a commercial public broadcaster is a strength for Norway. Since its inception in 1992, TV2 has contributed to diversity and competition, and to the building of a large and competent media environment outside Oslo. The media town of Bergen must be built up and not weakened, and in the agreement we state that a commercial public broadcaster should have a head office and news editorial office in Bergen. We now expect the Ministry of Culture to announce an agreement that TV 2 and possibly others find it relevant to apply for. «Mammon», «Friendly», «Skam» and «Occupert» are examples of Norway's full height in making series with other countries. Norway is also world class when sports events are to be produced on television. The competition between the two major public broadcasters means that what they make is getting better and better. But sports rights, self-produced and purchased TV series, documentaries and other major bets cost. It also costs to have a nationwide network of district offices and to be ahead of development. It is therefore necessary to have a predictable and good economy. The NRK will be compensated for price and salary increases, and we also ask that it be more predictable by setting the licence and the contract for four years at a time. The fact that people like to watch TV on a mobile phone or on a tablet as on a TV sets means that the broadcasting fee will become an out-of-date financing model in the long term. A sample is in the process of finding other solutions for how the NRK will generate income in the future. In the agreement, the majority agree, we say that the new scheme must: ‘– ensure the independence of the NRK — be long-term and forward-looking — provide predictability for both the NRK and the licensees — be unbureaucratic — maintain a social profile to a greater extent than today’. In the case of commercial public broadcasting, we ask the government to set up a model in which parts of the additional costs associated with the obligations of a commercial public broadcaster are compensated, and to propose this by the end of 2016. Critics claim that it is wrong to support a commercial public broadcaster financially. They then disregard the value of having two general-purpose broadcasters in the country, and they ignore the fact that it costs money to be a general-purpose broadcaster and to assume this responsibility. That these are tough times for the media industry, we recognize and see every day. But it won't be solved by weakening NRK and TV 2 – no one wins. Instead, we need to continue working to ensure the media diversity. The working party is working hard to strengthen media pluralism in Norway. We did it together with a total expansion, which got the government to expand the zero VAT. We have proposed to increase the production grant to the local authorities, and we are doing so now through the Stortingen Public Broadcasting Agreement. We're going to continue working to ensure media better framework conditions, and stone by stone we're building the future media policy. I am very pleased with the agreement we have reached across the parties. It was talking that was from the government parties when they joined after the roll call in 2013, about cutting the NRK or removing significant parts of NRK’s online offerings or weakening the NRK’s economy, it’s at the very end of it. The breakthrough with what the Storting decides today is that there's almost full excitement about having a public, strong public broadcaster in the future, and that we also want a commercial public broadcaster with head office in Bergen. It's a pleasure. Then we have great expectations and demands on the Council of State for implementation. Today, we are promoting a number of proposals for decisions, and we expect a rapid clarification from the Council of State. I recognise, and the majority acknowledge, that many of these questions are demanding. There are legal challenges, economic challenges, and the models chosen, if any, need to be clarified with ESA. However, we believe that at the moment that the expert committee on NRK funding is presenting its investigation, it will become clear to many which models should be looked at and that it is a relatively simple task for the Council of State to propose it. There we have good faith that progress is being kept, and that we can get a case and perhaps a decision in Stortinget during the first six months of next year. There are also several challenges to commercial public broadcasting. Just to be clear about it: although it is an ambitious timetable, we have expectations that a temporary agreement must be in place immediately, because it should have been in place long ago. We challenged the then Minister of Culture Widvey at the time of the announcement. No solution came then. We have challenged further over the six months that have passed, and we now expect the Council of State to come on the track immediately with a temporary agreement. Then we are clear when the Council of State has the opportunity to promote an initiative towards the Stortinget, before New Year's, on how to secure commercial public broadcasting in Bergen for the future, and we are committed to good, constructive discussions in the Stortinget to find solutions in this important area as well. With that, I address the proposals we have made in the vote and look forward to continuing constructive work for the media diversity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e838	The President assumes that the proposals to which the representative Arild Grande refers are the one to which they have been duly presented. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e843	Just as the representative, Grande, needed some clarifications, so I have the same need. The outline of the challenges is very well described at the end of the post to the Grande, both on the economic aspects, on the legal aspects and also on the ESA issue, but although the representative Grande verbally was relatively clear in his reply to me, it is written in the proposal something more both to deal with and something more to solve in the fish than the Grande presented instead. So I wonder: does the representative of Grande think it's most important that we have a date to work after, or that we find a system that is sustainable and that is both economic, legal and in contact with ESA in terms of a future commercial broadcasting model?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e850	I don't think the two challenges are different. I think it's quite obvious that there's an ambitious timetable, but I also think it's quite obvious that there are solutions here. A total expansion now expresses that we want to have a temporary agreement with a commercial general programming immediately, and that we want to have a case on how this can be handled for the future – by the end of the year. There is no one in this house who expects that there will be a verdict in the 2017 government budget proposal, but we would like to present a case on how this can be resolved, the legal implications it has and how this can be achieved in order to avoid the possibility that money that might be put into place from this house does not go to dividends. So there's a lot of issues going on here, but it's been well known to the Council for a long time that it's a challenge that's pressing forward, and we make that clear through an ambitious timetable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e857	I am pleased that the representative of Grande agrees that this is an ambitious timetable, and I have full assurance that the department and the government are working hard to get this in place, both because the Stortinget is asking for it, and because there is a need for it. One of the major challenges is precisely what the representative, Grande, was about to send Norwegian taxpayers' money to well-funded owners in Denmark, which will be a major challenge to solve, and also a new policy by the Workers' Party. In addition, there is another element that the representative has not been involved, namely the competitors here at home in Norway. We see in today's Business today that almost an overall Media Norway now sees that this is a major challenge, and even some of the major central actors are stretching so far that maybe we're all going to go together to apply for a similar scheme. In the post to Grande, it seemed as if the conclusion was that this was going to TV 2, so I would just ask the representative to clarify whether there is a commercial public broadcaster or TV 2 we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e866	To take the first element of dividends: there are many here that refer to the dividend policy so far – there is an agreement with the state. The key issue then, which was distribution – it is no longer a scarce asset – was the agreement with the State, which meant that a commercial public broadcaster could be awarded with great success. We will have to create a new solution for the future that ensures the same consideration, namely commercial general programming and in Bergen. This may mean that government funds must also be found for the purchase of such services. Then it has to be hit in such a way that we prevent such funds from going to dividends, but that they actually go for the purpose they are going to. Whether that will lead to a wide range of other stakeholders coming on the track, who want to become a commercial public broadcaster and broadcast from Bergen, it is a joyous development and a joyous result of the Storting consensus. And in that case, we have succeeded in what was the ambition, that of commercial public broadcasting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e873	I heard the message from the representative and I still understand that it is the NRK who can do the big task in the field of public broadcasting. Then I also heard that the license is out of date, which has been a sacred cow for the Workers' Party for a long time as the only solution to finance the NRK. What makes the Workers' Party change its view of this area overnight? It was referred to as ‘date out’. Does this mean that you have to finance the license to NRK from color television that you want to tax people who live in a dwelling in Norway, i.e. after a Finnish model? What makes it more up-to-date, to say that, the Finnish model, taxing people in the household, rather than color television?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e880	If it would be a challenge to change meaning in this room, perhaps the replicator can take a deep dive both in the Progress Party programme and in various media releases from the representatives of the Progress Party in recent years, and he will see that there are several who have adjusted their view on some key issues. The working party has been committed to ensuring a continued media diversity in the future. We have been concerned not necessarily with the technical solution for the funding of the NRC, but with a system where the community owns and finances the NRC, and that there is a system that ensures the independence of the NRC. Then we see that technological development makes today's system of all probability out of date within a few years. Then it is the responsibility of the Storting to see in what ways we can ensure that the community's property is also financed by the community in the future. So here we haven't changed our vision, we've, on the contrary, wanted to be in front of a development that we all see coming, and it's a pleasure that the Progress Party has also joined the need for a strong public circle in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e889	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e893	What are we going to do with a public broadcaster? What are we going to do with a media diversity, and how do we define media diversity? Is it that we spend 4-5 billion. public crowns for funding the NRK, which were designed 75 years ago with a monopoly on radio broadcasts? Is media corruption that the NRK is increasing the number of television channels from three and up, as they want? Or is it that the NRK also increases the number of radio channels in addition to 14 channels that they have today? Is that what's media-diversity? Is that what public broadcasting is? That's my answer, no. Media and media policy have changed dramatically in the last ten years, many say. I want to say media policy and the media have changed dramatically in the last year. There's so much happening from day to day. A year ago we talked about linear television, and someone talked about streaming. Today, at least the youth, who is the future, is talking about streaming all the time. From this point of view, the development and regulation of the Internet service of the institutions has been characterised by low-principal solutions from Stortinget. Not that we have knowledge of it, but we can't see into the future either, and that's why we have to create a media policy that makes it a game room out there, without us going in and out. For example, the NRK has: has had relatively free play to experiment and develop without the Storting having any knowledge of what is happening. Thus, the licenced network offers of the public broadcaster have been made in this way – in competition with private operators or also as a supplement to radio and television, which works very well, from the NRK, but it may be difficult for new players to claim. With such a media policy, I think it is difficult to see the social value of the diverse online services of general programming – a challenge. How can these institutions better fulfil their community missions on the Internet, more people are asking themselves. Rather than simply thinking of networks as a complement to radio and television, public broadcasters should take advantage of the possibility of new types of services that can make a contribution to the societal mission independently. It's an exciting challenge that I think this hall doesn't have the knowledge to challenge. The Progress Party believes that there has been too much change in the role of NRK as a public broadcaster. They have a dominant role, which I have been in, in several areas. I am not so concerned with the big message itself, but with what the two samples have been put down come, and not least with the mandates we have given them. It's important that we now take time to see what comes out of them on March 1st, 2017. Out of the mandates, I am reading major changes for the future of the public broadcasters, and that is something we should look at. The majority do not have time to wait for this, a majority who have nailed an agreement for the future without waiting for the experts. There seems something amazing to me, not least when we see that the agreement that is stuck between all the other parties is very dominated by what's going to happen to the NRK, and not by what's going to happen to other actors. It's good we have knowledgeable politicians who can see into the glass ball, who don't have time to wait. It's not ironic, but I think we should have sat down and waited. There's a lot going on in the media. There's a lot going on inside the TV. There's a lot going on in newspapers. There's a lot going on within linear television, or is it on the spot resting? Not least, there's a lot going on within currents. When the government presented the broadcast message, it launched a sample to review the funding of the NRK, and that it would get a public investigation into the media diversity, which I've been in for. Both samples will have an impact on Norwegian media policy. How the NRK is financed has much to say about the competitive situation against the commercial ones. What are the consequences? I'm excited about what alternatives to the license selection will provide. New taxes have been introduced in this agreement, which has been concluded between all the other batches. There is now a desire to move away from color television funding to tax people living in a household – a Finnish model, a personal tax. A broad public investigation of the media diversity will also have implications for today's NRC. Now we could have had a thorough debate if we had had time and opportunity to wait on the samples, but we don't, and we're limiting our own opportunity. The Progress Party is not convinced that the NRK is the only one capable of operating in general broadcasting. Many were skeptical when TV 2 was sent from OL. Who could make good OL broadcasts outside the NRK? In fact, TV 2 could do that, even with advertising. Everyone saw that it had a positive effect, and that also others could solve the problem. It's possible to raise your eyes and look forward. Or that TV 2 is the only one that can send news from Bergen – why do we lock ourselves to it? We have seen that a major State actor affects the ability of the other media – possibly also of commercial operators – to show up. For the Progress Party, the overall media supply to the population is more important than protecting today’s NRC as a government broadcast. It's actually the diversity out to the population that's important. I'm glad that the government is tightening up the NRK's ability to conduct commercial activity, and that you also look at the efficiency that it is possible to do in the NRK. The working party is willing to look at the license, and they say it's out of date. I'm glad you put it down, but you also have the opportunity to go further. I understand that this is a lost cause for the Progress Party. The Progress Party has clearly said that we want to remove the license; we want new ways of financing public broadcasting. The majority have now concluded that the Finnish model is the best, so I can read the agreement. The majority have also guaranteed the income of the NRK. The majority, consisting of the Left, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, SV, the Green, Right and Workers' Party, have said that every four years they will look at how to solve the funding for the NRK; four years predictability is to be achieved. It has to be compensated for price and salary increases, i.e. a guarantee, which they don't guarantee for any other public broadcasters, and I think that's strange. That's what I'm looking at. There is no doubt that TV 2 is and has been a quality in Media-Norway, in TV-Norway, and has been a contribution to the media development we have today, along with many other private actors funded by advertising. Why is the Progress Party not part of the agreement that has been signed? It's because we want to wait for the work of the reduced samples to look at the media diversity. We'll wait and look at how we want to finance all the public broadcasters, not just the NRK, and guarantee those solutions in the future. We'll listen to the experts on how to solve this. Of course, we are in favour of eight out of twelve proposals for decisions in the case, but we will not commit ourselves. We don't want to commit too early. We want to see what the experts come up with. We have time to wait until 1 March 2017 to assess this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e932	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e935	The representative Thomsen confronted the representative Grande in the change of line and claimed that the Workers' Party has adjusted the course. And here's an expert talking, because when it's going to be not just to adjust the course, but to make total turns – even run from election vows – then the Progress Party is the experts themselves. There was no lack of promises from the Progress Party about what a new media policy would bring if the party came into government – not just the license would be removed; the NRK would be part-privatized, advertising would be sent to the NRK, and the representative Thomsen has previously said that KORK should be shut down. Fortunately, there is a long way between the electoral promises of the Advance Party and the media policy of the Party and the Right in Government. Fortunately, it is not a single sign of penetration for the Progress Party. What does the representative Thomsen think about the impact of the Advance Party on their electoral promises now that they are in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e942	I was a little bit into my post what I think about the agreement that was signed, between all the other parties, and then I referred to that we should at least wait and look at the expert committee's answer regarding funding. Maybe they can come up with good solutions, without us nailing it here today. The shut-down media diversity committee may also provide good solutions for the overall public broadcasting sector. Then we don't have the clear vision, the ability to look into a glass sphere and know what's going on, which I have the impression that the Workers' Party can, in terms of media policy ahead. So why not listen to experts instead of taking this up at the group meeting in the Workers' Party? There may be some knowledge there, but waiting for the experts is our policy now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e949	I still wonder if it is such that the representatives of the Progress Party have enjoyed and benefited from the adult training given when they are finally in government, and have realised that previous policy in this area has been a wrong step, or whether the representative Thomsen still believes that the licence should be removed, that the NRK should be partially privatised, that advertising should be distributed on the NRK, and that CORK should be shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e954	The floor will be given to the representative Ibsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e957	The policy of the Progress Party remains firm. When all the parties at Stortinget have agreed that the NRK will be financed according to the Finnish model – because it says it quite clearly – and that the NRK will be guaranteed a income for the future, when the majority say it, then I realize that the battle is lost in Stortinget. But I think it's short-sighted to be so bastful while waiting for some sample settings for the Storting, especially when there are experts in the area sitting there. So yes, this is a lost cause for the Progress Party. The policy does not change. I see that the Labour Party has changed its licensing policy and will now at least assess it, and I think it is positive. So I have a small victory, because this is actually a challenge for the Workers' Party in 40 years, at least to assess the license, but we have not had any impact on that – until we put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e964	The fall of 2013 was according to the Progress Party the last year the voters had to pay the license, and we all got a new giro a short time ago – fortunately, I would say, because the Workers' Party believes it is the community that is going to finance the NRK. There is little doubt that many voted in the Progress Party because they were promised that the license would be removed. They were clearly tricked. When Minister of Culture Widvey announced this big message that we are dealing with here today, and a review of the media diversity, the representative Thomsen was quickly outside and said, among other things. that the NRK has to make less entertainment on the television in the future, i.e. less competitive with the commercial ones. Can the representative give an example of a programme at the NRK that goes too far in entertaining the Norwegian people and that should therefore be taken off-screen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e971	I think you're referring incorrectly. I think it said "less funny," that Thomsen thought that the NRK was going to be less funny, to be absolutely accurate. That's not what I said. I said the following that it's not safe for the NRK to be good at everything. And I still mean that, because we see that TV 2 was actually good at making OL broadcasts, we see that other crews can play well, in addition to CORK, we see that others can produce good productions in series, also in Norway. That's what I said. It is not certain that the NRK should be good on 14 radio channels, or on 3 television channels. I still mean that. Less entertaining? No, I think the gold bar might be one of the best things to watch on TV, so I want to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e978	CORK is not a corps. To be diplomatic: I think I'm feeling a little confusing – I might say double confusing – for the slogan that now we have to sit down and wait and see, seems very strange. Firstly, for decades after decades now, the Progress Party has been completely against the NRK. And then, when there's starting to be a little bit of a need for some changes after many years of stability, then the Progress Party will sit down and wait and see. The second thing is, the representative himself described in his article a number of the changes that are happening right now, and as I think we are experiencing around us, which means that there is a need to make changes to the license. But meeting changes around by sitting down and waiting and watching is at least an unusual strategy. So is it really now that the main media political slogan of the Progress Party is to sit down and wait and see?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e986	To be diplomatic, too: I believe that the expert committees that have been set up should look not only at the funding of the NRC, but actually at the funding of all public broadcasting. And in order to be extra diplomatic, I expect the expert committee and the media diversity committee to also look at the entire Media-Norway and the entire TV coverage and all the broadcasters together. So it's not just a NRK question. I'm glad that we've now put down these samples, and that we're not just focusing on the NRK, but actually can also see the whole and not least listen to the experts, as I was inside my post -- knowing what's going on in the future, and who's having the expertise on it. I know that the representative thought that DAB was a very good solution for sending radio signals around the country, but Norway is still the only country in the world that has chosen that solution. But that competence certainly has the representative!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e991	We have to wait for the expert selection before we move on. But what's done now is that there's been a run and a plan to move on quickly after the expert selection and to get on with commercial public broadcasting, because both are issues that there's a hurry to solve. But if I ask you one more thing that I feel a little bit confusing: I have noticed that the Progress Party is now summarizing it as one says that the license should now be evaluated, and that it is being opened for a license to be paid by everyone, not only by those who have a TV. Could the representative Thomsen explain to me in what way it would be a saying to the Progress Party if it goes from the fact that those who have a TV pay a license that everyone pays a license? Is that what our objective is?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e998	There is no doubt that the agreement that has been written between all the parties on the Storting minus the Advance Party does not just show how you want this, but there are clear leads towards the selections that have been reduced, how you want the solution, when you have been so detailed that you have shown the Finnish model. But it's clear that when the funding of public broadcasters is a topic, we want to raise it from the NRC, as I understand that many people believe that only the NRK is going to be financed by the tax or licensing bill. We want to get a total assessment of that. When you think that the funding of the NRK is out of date, as you say, because you have color television today, and you want to raise it to tax in the households, I don't see it as a novelty to look to Finland in that area, but see that we actually find another solution that allows us to fund more public broadcasters who can also do a good job. And then I also referred to TV 2 today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1003	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1006	In front of the message, a lot of balls were thrown up that made us excited about how the content of the public broadcast message would be. It wasn't just CORK you discussed, or if the NRK was going to get a little more boring, it was probably also yr.no that was the theme. But I have to say that, fortunately, when the message was submitted, the focus was a little different. There were many who lowered their shoulders and gave their support to the message in very many areas, something the Christian People's Party also did and was very happy about. For the Christian People's Party, securing a forward-looking and predictable funding of the NRK has been important, but also the grip that has been taken to keep a commercial public broadcaster based in Bergen, has been important. We've seen how the competition between a commercial public broadcaster and the NRK has made the NRK news release much better, it has made the commercial public broadcaster better, and not least, as news consumers, we have received an even better offer. Therefore, it has been important for the Christian People's Party that we also safeguard commercial public broadcasting in the future. A lot happens on the media front, and it happens quickly, as it has been pointed out. The size has already taken a grip by getting to a zero-zero-VAT. It's been important. We have avoided the large cuts in production aid. But I think there's going to be a need for more action in the future, and the broad agreement that we've reached here is in many ways an answer to that. Then I'm very happy, too, and I want to say that as a representative of a district party, that we've been so clear in the agreement on the NRK's district profile. I feel it is well taken care of in this agreement. We need a strong and innovative NRK — a NRK that offers common insights and experiences, linking Norway together, and a NRK that also offers a variety of specialised services that may not be available in other media. For the Christian People's Party, the goal is to lay the political foundation that the NRK can still be there in a new era. It is important for media policy that we preserve both strong newspaper editorials and strong NRKs in response to international competition on television, on the Internet and not least on social media. But with the strong position that the NRK has, I am very pleased that the announcement and also the majority on the Stortinget are clear that the NRK will have an independent responsibility to contribute to the Norwegian media diversity. For the NRK, it must and must balance its competitive relationship with other media. And here, of course, we expect the government to follow up and continuously evaluate how the NRK is working to strengthen the media diversity. We've been to the NRK poster. Like the message, we want a more general NRK poster, not as detailed as it's been now. However, we have been clear – in a new NRK poster – that today’s access to online advertising should be removed, that the importance of performing the public broadcasting mission online should be elaborated and clarified, that a requirement for presence in all counties should be included, and that self-responsive responsibility for contributing to media pluralism should be emphasised. With regard to the financing of public broadcasting, it is clear that the licence, as it is today, could possibly provide the NRC with predictable funding for some time to come, but because things happen so fast in the media everyday life, i.e. on the day-to-day experience of the NRK, it is not certain the way we finance the NRK today, is bearable in the long term. That's why it's very important that we look a little bit into the glass ball and evaluate other ways of financing it, and we've run for it in the broad consensus that has emerged. We are also clear on the need to continue an agreement with a commercial general broadcaster with head office and news editorial in Bergen, and we ask the government at the end of 2016 to make a proposal on how to achieve this. It's a shame that you only have five minutes at your disposal, but we just have to make sure that we grow as a party, and then we have to take it back on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1027	That's good! It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1032	I just want to say that the post might not have been that far, but it was good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1037	So do I! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1042	In the agreement you have made with the other parties, you have guaranteed the funding of the NRC over four years – a long-term guarantee. One has also said that it should be price and wage growth, that one captures it, which is a way of guaranteeing income in the future. Why did the representative not mention other public broadcasters for whom he wishes the same guarantee and wishes to equate with the NRK? My question is: can TV 2 expect the same guarantee, that they get predictability, by sending from Bergen over four years and getting a guarantee of price and salary growth that captures it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1049	Yeah, having a predictable funding of the NRK, I think that's important, not just for the NRK, but for me as a licensee. Having a funding and looking a little over a four-year period, I think that's good for all parties. What we're saying about commercial general programming is that we're asking the government to take an initiative to secure a commercial general programming with headquarters and news editorial in Bergen by the end of 2016. Then the government has to come back to show you how to take care of this, and also compensate for the expenses you have for, among other things. the dissemination of news. That's the task that the government has been given. I expect that the agreement and the points of agreement and the points of proposals will be followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1056	I have read what is in the agreement, and the representative refers correctly from it, but it is not clear that you want to guarantee this with income in the same way you do to the NRK. It must, of course, be so important for Becquerad to guarantee competition in public broadcasting – within the media diversity – that can compete with the NRC. Just what you're doing is you're pointing to NRK as the only one. What does this separate? This is a little bit unclear to me. What assessments does the Christian People's Party make in this area regarding this bias or bias, as it might be?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1062	We ask the government to make a proposal on how to compensate TV 2 or the commercial public broadcaster for the obligation they have to send news. That there will be competition in this area is great. That's very nice. We point to Bergen as a manufacturing site. Otherwise, we're talking about commercial general programming. Then there will be competition on this, and then I think we have achieved a great deal. We asked the government to come back with a model to get this done. Then I would like to stress that I do not have expectations that the government will be able to deliver this as early as 2017, but that they relate to the agreement to come to Stortinget by 2016 with a proposal for a model and suggestions on how to solve this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1069	Only one possibility of clarification as the time did not go by for Bekkedvold when he kept his post. It concerns the post-famous chronicle of the Minister of Culture in the Official Journal of Bergen, where it is claimed that the majority of the Committee, meaning the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party, is of the opinion that the Council of State should wait for the Media Multiplicity Committee before concluding on the issue of commercial general broadcasting. Is it correctly understood that the Christian People's Party has that attitude, or will Becca violence contribute to the possible misunderstanding being cleared up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1074	Yeah, I'd like that. For it is a misunderstanding if the Christian People's Party has been involved in a comment that gives the impression that this is something the government can only postpone, even after the media diversity committee has made its position in March 2017. We're on the deal. We are at the point of agreement where we ask the government to come to Stortinget by the end of 2016 with suggestions on how to solve this. There must be no doubt about what the Christian People's Party has meant in this matter, either after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1081	That heart is full of, running its mouth over. It may be difficult to distinguish between TV 2 and general commercial broadcasting, including for the representative, Bekkewård. I want to get to the point number. 6, that the government should take the initiative to come back to Stortinget on how to ensure commercial public broadcasting in the future and that it will come by 2016. Shares the Confederal Representative Grande's description of the reality of the legal implications, the economic implications, the clarifications around ESA, etc. And see that it's important that things happen in order, and that we get all of these things in place, so that we don't adopt any throat over our heads and get it back maybe six months later?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1090	We are concerned that this with which the government will come to the Stortinget should be water-tight, not least in the case of ESA and competition rules. We nevertheless believe that the timeframe we have set should be possible for the government, but I would like to stress that I do not expect the government in its draft budget for 2017 to have found a solution to this. If, against assumption, they have found a solution and come to Stortinget with a solution in the budget, I cannot promise that the Christian People's Party will be against it – but I have no expectations about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1095	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1098	The English concept of public service broadcasting precisely describes the social task of providing the public with information and entertainment through the media. The role of universal broadcasting is based on a democratic perspective in which informing and informing the population is the fundamental principle. A diversity of independent and free media is a prerequisite for democratic governance and for the development of a living democracy. For many years, the broadcasting media, both radio and television, has played a key role in the formation of opinion in society. The centre party is therefore pleased that the Storting Group has gathered on a settlement that defines objectives and ensures predictable framework conditions for the public broadcasters in the coming years. The overall importance of the Centre Party has been to ensure a continued high level of public service broadcasting in Norway, with clear programming obligations towards broad and narrow groups and with a country-wide presence. The role and framework conditions of the NRC are, of course, a central element of the general programming policy, for seas, if we have been given an increased uptake of new channels, this has not reduced the importance of the NRC's role as a public broadcaster. Rather, new channel offers in themselves provide some guarantee for an increased media diversity. There will continue to be a strong need for a credible and non-sponsored source of information and entertainment in Norwegian based on Norwegian culture and tradition. In this respect, I have to say that the government has chosen an unnecessarily complicated process. At first, a big message was received, where important questions were not answered. Then a total of two samples were set up to explore alternative public funding models for NRCs and economic instruments to ensure media pluralism. This has done something backwards, and it has made it necessary in the agreement to add clear leadership and a faster schedule than the government provided. Without going into detail on all parts of the deal, I will briefly draw out two points of great importance: If the NRK continues to play an important role in the Norwegian media landscape, its editorial activities cannot be limited to so-called narrow and commercially uninteresting concepts or reduced presence on the Internet. Then the NRK will risk falling out of many media habits and with it losing its relevance. The centre party is therefore satisfied that in the message, and reinforced by the agreement, it has been established that the NRK must be able to be present on all media platforms and that the NRK must have full freedom to make continuous use of the platforms they want. In the last three budget debates, the central party has criticised the government for cutting the NRK economically by not fully price and pay adjustment of the licence. Unfortunately, the impact of government policy has been that district division has been reduced. Given the NRK’s general broadcasting mission, district offices may not remain the balancing item. It has therefore been important for the Centre Party that, in addition to providing guidance for the foreseeable and forward-looking funding of the NRC, it is also unambiguously stated that a new NRK poster should contain requirements for the presence in all counties. New efficiency requirements must not conflict with this. There is a broad consensus, both politically and in opinion, that today's licence model is out of date. With that said, at the same time, there is a great deal of excitement that the NRK will continue to be publicly funded and free of advertising. The central party is therefore satisfied that the agreement so clearly states that the need for a predictable economy needs to be met and that a new financing model will ensure NRK public revenues for further development, with strong regional anchoring. After the closure of the broadcasting monopoly in the 1980s, we have had two public broadcasters on television in Norway. There has been a positive competition for the NRK and an enrichment for the media diversity. The centre party takes seriously the signals that have come to light that there is no economic basis for operating commercial public broadcasting on television with today's framework conditions. This puts particular pressure on competition in news coverage. It is imperative that the government quickly arrive at a model where it is still economically interesting to produce news outside Oslo, and I am pleased that we have agreed in the agreement that this must be prioritised. In this way, the centre party is open to assess financial compensation for the general broadcasting mission itself, where news production is central.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1121	On behalf of the Left, I would like to thank the other parties, both within and outside the Committee, for the cooperation that is still in the plural agreement we are discussing today. To the left, as a liberal knowledge party, we want to preserve the NRK as a strong and advertising-free public broadcaster, with special responsibility for public information and dissemination of knowledge and culture to all, and that the NRK is a main player. Then it has been important for the Left that the Storting should give a clear message to the government that we must also ensure a commercial public broadcaster outside Oslo as an alternative to the NRK, and that the NRK should have a self-responsive responsibility for Norwegian media failures. A meeting sometimes meets the argument that the NRK is about to be out of date. It is not. I'm among the great-grandparents who are happy that NRK Super offers high-quality content, and not least a high-quality content for children, which is actually a preferred alternative to Netflix and Disney Channel. I also have to boast that NRK Super is the channel that best meets the requirements for a new nostril. For my children, it's important for language and identity skills. Although the NRK is not out of date, it is obvious that parts of the NRK are about to become it. The NRK licence is the foremost example. The license is old-fashioned and out-of-date as long as it is connected to the television set, and the Left is pleased that the Storting today points to more forward-looking models. It's not the first time we have exactly that discussion in this house. When the Left put forward proposals for second and more timely ways of funding a public broadcaster in March 2007, only the Left and the Advance Party voted in favour. The proposal got its left and right votes in 2009, and the Christian People's Party came into being in 2012. I find that there has been a dispute, but that there is now a broad majority who realize that the licence must be changed. The size indicates today that the funding of the NRK is to ensure the independence of the NRK and that it is to be unbureaucratic and more socially equitable than the current NRK licence. This means that ordinary financing of the State budget is out of date and that the licence model has to be replaced. We hardly find a model that is more bureaucratic, and there is also reason to point out that a fee per household is deeply unsocial and actually quite 1950s. The use of both TV sets and NRK is strongly changing. The left is therefore pleased that the Storting is with us in particular to point to a model where public broadcasting is funded over the tax haven, but in a way that is arm's length away from political governance, balancing posts and changing pluralities. Finland has such a model today, and I am overestimated that this is also a good model for Norway. At the Left's initiative, the majority also asks that the Media Disaster Selection assess whether such a Finnish model can be used to finance other parts of a vital democracy and a lack of public awareness. There may be public broadcasting missions on radio and media facilities currently funded by the State budget, such as press support, support for local broadcasting, Sami newspapers, etc. I record the discussion of the settlement text on the agreement and financing of commercial public broadcasting and how to interpret it. I would like to be very clear on this. The left assumes that the mission of the government is to ensure that we still have a commercial public broadcaster with daily news broadcasts and head office outside Oslo, even after 1 January 2016. Then we ask the government to set up a model where a commercial public broadcaster gets compensated for parts of the extra costs that it involves having a public broadcaster concession. This release should be in place as soon as possible and may not be done by the Media Crash Selection. The media selection must be extended in the same way as the majority indicates, and the Storting should be able to discuss different models when it is in the lead. But the present concession agreement with TV 2 had initially a duration of only five years. It is natural that a new agreement for permanent solutions is in place, after the Media Disaster Selection has agreed on a holistic media funding, and it may take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1136	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1139	Thank you for a very good contribution from the representative of the Left. I just want to have a clarification, which also the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have so far been involved in their posts and in the successions: When, after working as quickly as possible, the government comes back with a model for future commercial public broadcasting – we look forward to it – is the Left also aware that this is neither practical nor should it have any budgetary implications for 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1146	The left does not expect the government to introduce compensation for commercial public broadcasters in the draft government budget for 2017, i.e. during this large-scale period. And I don't think those who are applying for a concession will expect it after this day. But you might think that you should have an opening so that this kind of compensation for services such as Stortinget and the State would like a broadcaster to deliver will arrive later in the concession period. That's why I would like to stress that the distribution should be put in place as soon as possible, and it's important here that there be a commercial public broadcaster with daily news broadcasts and head offices outside Oslo, that's in Bergen, as the comparison says, even from New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1152	In order to clear up all doubts about the position of the Left, the details are very important: in the agreement, the parties agree that a temporary agreement for commercial public broadcasting should be in place in Bergen – it should be put in place immediately – so that an initiative by the government will be promoted within the new year on how this will be ensured for the future, and then the Media Multiplicity Committee will look at the whole of the landscape for example. public broadcasting on radio, new forms of media support, etc. I just want to hear a clear and clear yes from the left that this is how we perceive the agreement, everyone, so that no questions are asked about whether we have adjustments to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1159	That's how Left also feels.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1164	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1167	Let me start by thanking the case-speaker, who in time took the initiative in the talks that later, over a few rounds, led to the broad agreement, and thanking all the parties in the committee for taking the wise choice in my view that we made it a conversation between all the parties, which makes this here an almost cross-political settlement. What makes Norway a country with high trust and very strong community? Many things – small differences, value creation and welfare state, but there are also things like common language, common references and experiences, common knowledge base, that is, we don't get our knowledge from completely different sources, but can become some things about reality. Public broadcasting is a very central part of it, in Norway and in a number of other countries that have done so. Strong communities, with which the public broadcaster is involved, must be balanced by a lack of ability in order not to be totalitarian. We have a variety of ideas, interests and tastes. Therefore, NRK has since been supplemented with other providers. But many of them are not just different providers, they're different content as well, and so the public broadcaster's idea is both the broad and all sorts of strange things, which make it possible to find an interest: rowdy music, television theaters, B-films, philosophy and jazz – yes, even in the same program. So the core idea of the general broadcaster model is the general, the big, the people's information about a wild, and the narrow. It gives security to try out many of the strange things. Let me take an example: could you imagine that any commercial actor would bet on something as strange as the Bergensbanen minute by minute? That concept has proved to be a huge commercial success, but security to take something that's rightmost narrow and small out, and try it out in a smaller format and then make it big, is part of the special NRK, as public broadcasters, has offered us. I start this way because the background of the very good message that came, and it's even better compared now, years with some times quite a powerful attack on this, on which several speakers have also been involved – from both government parties. The party of progress has had it over time, with its idea that we should have a privatized and advertising-funded NRK, which would give a NRK that is more like commercial, but in the last few years primarily with a different tanker, i.e. a NRK that will be more like a residual dinner, where the NRK will cover it as others in the market cannot. The attacks have been quite concrete over the last few years: one should limit the platform, remove the services, it was a cut in the budget, and it has also been uncertain about the commercial public broadcaster, now the last years of TV2, which has been a very important part of the overall public broadcaster supply. I think that the most important thing about the agreement and what is agreed today is that all doubts about the broad dissension about the Norwegian public broadcaster model are feia to side, and that there is an unusually wide majority in the Stortinget that is behind him. But there's a need to take the public information in it into a new era and renew it in important areas. A number of important processes have been initiated, but they have not been resolved. I'll mention the two most important ones. The point one is a new license, which is necessary. I have three children between six and ten years of age. We have a TV hanging in a room in our house. They hardly ever look at him. It's a PlayStation monitor. They watch TVs on their iPads and phones, in cops, in clips, when they want, on God knows what programs, and the stupidest thing is that I take over their habits more and more. I think that when this starts to turn, it can happen very quickly, and the habit of having in the youth, sees itself. Therefore, it is necessary to make good and knowledge-based changes after the expert selection comes. We have put forward some premises about the thinking – that it should be more socially fair, that it should be technologically robust and so on – but we must wait and look at the model. The second point concerns sports rights. Sports are incredibly important to many of us, and it's hugely important in my view, as part of the public broadcaster idea, that the big things can be available through a public broadcaster or another open channel. Now the government is going to put forward a matter of how we can better secure it, in what can become a very big and challenging market in the years to come. Thank you for working with the other party, it has been a great pleasure to work on this matter here. It's not a media issue, it's a matter of how we build a society, and I think we've made a good contribution to it through the collaboration in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1184	One of my most important tasks as a media minister is to facilitate media diversity. For informed citizens and a well-functioning democracy, we need high-quality independent and free media. In this, public broadcasting has a very central place. I am therefore pleased with the broad agreement, which provides a good basis and starting point for further work on developing a good public broadcasting policy. People's media habits are changing rapidly, and changes are taking place as quickly as possible in young people. More and more people pick up the TV content from the Internet, which challenges today's broadcasting fee. This is why the government has set up an expert group to carefully evaluate different models for future funding of the NRC. In line with the committee's position, I have already made it clear to the set-up group of experts that one of the models that now needs to be explored is a financing scheme based on the Finnish model. I look forward to the recommendations of the expert group and the further work to find a model that will meet the need for editorial independence, legitimacy of the population and financial stability over time. I am pleased that by the end of 2016 the government will come to Stortinget and present a proposal for future funding of the NRK. Next to a strong NRK, we also need a viable commercial public broadcaster. The government will therefore during the spring publish a temporary agreement in which requirements for self-produced news content and location in Bergen will remain firm. Then I record that there has been some confusion about what has really been agreed in Stortinget. I really don't think it's that hard to understand. Both the representative Solhjell – whom I think had a very good speech from the pulpit in place – and representatives from the Christian People's Party and the Left are very clear about what this is. I fully agree with them and could maybe keep those posts myself. One that is a little uncertain, however, is the representative of Grande, who has asked the same question in each line to confirm what has actually been agreed – they are a little more uncertain about what is being tried and tested. The representative of Grande from the Workers' Party says that the government will now set up a model by 2016 at the latest and come to Stortinget with it. I read that in newspapers and I hear it being said here. If you read the setting, it says that during 2016 the government will take the initiative to ensure commercial public broadcasting. Of course we're going to do that, so it's in the setting: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to ensure commercial public broadcasting with headquarters and news editorial in Bergen by the end of 2016.’ I look forward to doing that, I will take these initiatives. I am also pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left clarify that this should have no budgetary implications for 2017. It is, as I can read in Today's Business today, a difference from what in the Workers' Party – according to the newspaper – was clearly the starting point for the formulation, that a model should be put in place, to what the other parties are now clarifying, namely a desire for the government to launch an initiative during 2016. Of course, I will follow up and deliver on that. TV 2 has demonstrated the importance of a viable commercial public broadcaster in Bergen. The continuation of such an offer is of great importance not only for Bergen, but also for the Norwegian media diversity and for Norwegian TV viewers. Compensation for the public broadcasting mission raises several complex questions, such as:: How much support is there? How is this to be financed? Are we able to ensure that the funds do not disappear as dividends to the owners? What part of the commercial public service broadcasting activity is to be supported? Is it only linear broadcasting, news production only, or should Norwegian language content and drama, debate and documents be counted? How are we to ensure that an aid scheme is in line with the EEA Agreement? All these are questions that I will go into thoroughly, and that I must be absolutely sure have been assessed and investigated, so that when I come to Stortinget with a proposal for a model, we know that there will be a system that will stand for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1209	Now, as far as this is concerned, with a plan of progress, but in view of the fact that the Christian People's Party may have contributed to creating the impression that the Council of State can well wait to come to the Grand Council with a proposal on how to run a commercial public broadcaster, it is important that what is in the proposal, and what is in the agreement, is what the Council of State will work on – and that we get a response from the government by the end of 2016. So I would say that even though the Christian People's Party has stressed that we have no expectations that we should be able to solve this already in the 2017 budget, the Council of State must, of course, look at what she will deliver in the 2017 government budget on a free initiative. I have said that then it is not certain that the Christian People's Party will be against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1216	That's good to hear. I am dealing with what is in the position, what is written by the Committee, and what is in the decision of the Storting today, namely that the government is being asked to do so. ‘investigated a model in which parts of the additional costs associated with the obligations incurred by a commercial public broadcaster are compensated’. And on the other hand, ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to ensure commercial public broadcasting with headquarters and news editorial in Bergen by the end of 2016.’ That's the mission that the government has been given, and that's what we're going to deliver on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1233	Let me first congratulate the Minister of Culture on his appointment, I haven't had the opportunity to do so before now, and it's really nice to meet the Minister of Culture for debate on such an important theme for media pluralism and also for Norwegian democracy. I am also pleased that the Minister of Culture is clear that she is dealing with the agreement that the majority of people have reached, and that she will follow it up to the point and point. I can promise that there is something that I signed – and I think more people in this room – will follow closely how it is followed up. I do not believe that for the Council of State there is any reason to be unsure of the Labour Party's position on this matter. I believe I have been quite clear about quoting from just the agreement when I have asked questions to the other parties to clear up any uncertainty about the state council's progress in this. Can we then state once and for all that the Council of State is taking this initiative by the end of 2016? I have to ask that way, because now rant the time away from me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1240	It's very good that everyone gets the same question, because then we're going to go back in the minutes and see that we're getting behind what the parties have written in the setting. To the representative of Grande: Of course, I follow up on what is in the setting that states that the government will take the initiative and come to Stortinget during 2016. I also hope that the representative of Grande agrees that the government needs an in-depth assessment, also because this is a matter that should stand in ESA. We know, for example. that in Denmark you were not as lucky when you made the model. It helped Danish TV 2 to repay illegal State aid. We don't want to get into this situation, and I hope that's an understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1247	I believe that from all parties involved in this agreement, it has been clear that we do not expect any budgetary impact on the 2017 budget. But it is clear that if the government has managed to promote a draft budget for 2017, I think the vast majority of parties are more than ready to deal with that issue – if you get that far. We're asking the government to keep progress. A temporary agreement on commercial public broadcasting should have been in place a long time ago – as we have underlined in several contexts. I now expect this temporary agreement to come into place, and I see that the Minister of Culture has said it will happen before the summer. Then there is the question: the uncertainty that the Minister of Culture himself created during his visit to Bergen, and the later after each famous chronicle that the majority is alleged to be asking the Minister of Culture to wait for the Media Diversity Committee – can we then once and for all establish that this does not matter to the Minister of Culture anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1257	I hope that I do not have to wait so long to express an agreement as the Minister of Culture from the Workers' Party, who made sure that TV 2 was without agreement for a whole ten months because a temporary agreement did not come into place. I hope that I will be more effective than the Minister of Culture of the Workers Party at that time. I would say that I have not spread any uncertainty at all. I noticed that some have been in contact with the media and tried to make the setting differently from what it actually is. What I said to Bergen’s Official Journal – and as I wrote in a chronicle that I actually thought was quite good, and I’m glad that the representative Grande refers to – was that in a totality I think the Stortinget would also think it would be useful to look at both the report of the Committee of Experts and the Committee of Media Diversities before finally concluding. This does not mean that the government will not make an initiative towards Stortinget in 2016 – which I have now clarified several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1264	To this point, I would say that all the settlements I have been away from, lead to a little squabbling about the interpretation afterwards – as in a marriage, there will be a little squabbling afterwards. If the quarrel starts on the wedding day, it never looks so pretty in a way. And what bothers me a little bit about now is that the Minister of Culture is talking down the outline of 'initiative' to as little as possible. No one thinks it's coming into the budget for next year. It's the budget conference next week, and the deadline for recording was February 1st or something like that. But I don't interpret the word 'initiative' as calling an official and saying that now you have to set off like that in Rome. Initiative means taking an initiative towards Stortinget, which has presented the agreement. Can I confirm that the Minister of Culture agrees that her interpretation is that she will take an initiative, that is. present a case, come to Stortinget and discuss matters with us during 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1269	I can sign that my interpretation of an initiative is the same as that of the representative Solhjells.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1274	That I thought was such an initiativeful answer that I would not take my second line!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1279	Then the line change is over, also for the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1282	I sat Saturday evening and found the setting for this matter we are dealing with today. That's what I did in the couch hook. I read on the iPad, rolled me through the notes while listening to the Norwegian Grand Prix final that I streamed from online via AirPlay to my floor floor audio board. It's not particularly impressive today. Many people might say that it's not a particularly impressive use of a Saturday night either, but we can leave it. The point is that for my grandmother it would be quite unthinkable to imagine that you could watch TV on anything other than a television set, that you could have the TV in your pocket, on the phone. Yes, just being able to look at the Dayrevy when you want, and not just directly there and then or via a recording on a VHS cassette, didn't seem very long ago as completely utopian to most people. Even I don't have a TV anymore. It's been a long time since I needed it. This development has gone faster, faster than we thought, and it's going to move forward faster. Globalisation, technology, convergence and commercialisation mean that our media consumption is spreading on more media, on more platforms and in new ways, and it is becoming more and more fragmented. Online provision is taking more and more of our attention, and all these changes mean that we need to rethink media policy. Yesterday's solutions have not been given to suit the reality of tomorrow's media. The technological changes and competitive conditions that lead to marked changes in our media habits and opportunities only confirm the need for a strong public broadcaster and an owner and a magnification that follows in time. Public broadcasting is a public good; it is a prerequisite for a democratic society of cultural diversity, but it is also a democratic, social and cultural instrument in our society. The NRC is the country's most important cultural institution, and is crucial for the dissemination of culture, language, discourse and construction of national identity. It is a pleasure that we in this country have such a great deal of excitement about the most important generalcaster, both politically and in the population. I don't think we'll find the husband of uproar in any country, and that trust we have to manage well. We need a strong NRK with clear commitments and leadership both to cover city and country and wide and narrow cultural interests. The importance of maintaining district offices only increases in the time ahead. A good deal of work has been done on this communication at the committee reading here in Stortingen, and on the fact that a broad majority, all with the exception of the Advance Party, have gathered on important leadership for the decisions that the government is now going to take and come back to the Stortingen with a view to the future, has been absolutely necessary. I agree with the representative of Grande and the representative of Solhjell that there would have been an advantage if the Council of State had been a little clearer about the ambition to be able to reach a temporary agreement for a commercial broadcaster, and is also clear that she is going to follow up the decision to make a matter of funding for the NRC by 2016. I am pleased that today we are asking for an investigation into the Finnish model, and that we are already giving the Council of State and the government the leadership of some of the main principles that a new model of funding must respect. If we believe that freedom of expression, legal certainty and a living democracy are best ensured by the diversity and quality of the new media everyday, then the policy must take the necessary measures. That is why it is a good day for the media diversity when we today establish the need for a commercial general broadcaster with head office and news editorial in Bergen, and that we ask the government to put in place an agreement to ensure this as soon as possible. The fact that the government is now also required to determine a model in which parts of the additional costs associated with such obligations may be compensated is also a necessary step in order to maintain just media pluralism.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1295	«General broadcasting» is a term that is constantly used and that has a long tradition as a descriptive and precise word for an enterprise carried out primarily by the NRK, but I am afraid it is becoming an unpresist concept. It does not immediately create a common understanding of what and who is being mentioned. The world has changed, and it continues at a speed that challenges us. What does this look like in 2.5 or 15 years? Or – do we remember what it was like ten years ago? Ten years ago, the reading board hadn't arrived, and on the phone you couldn't flip money, get up info about the items you're passing at the museum, or follow up on the app if your plane is on the route. What's in front of us? What media universe are we going to make policies for? We're doing the best we can, with the knowledge and the ability of foresight that we can recover. Report. St. 38 Open and enlightened take into account the more principled aspects of Kringcasting-Norway. The issues of funding have been raised by the government in a new case after the government-appointed expert committee and the diversity committee have provided the best possible basis for a good decision for the future. When an aggregate increase does not fully comply with that plan and yet raises funding in this process, it comes from a very complex and justified desire for predictability. I'll come back to that. I am pleased that the Storting Message has received such support both from the industry and from cross-politics here at Stortinget. Thinking so much about the important principles provides a basis for predictability and long-term leadership. The Storting Message, with full support from Stortinget, strikes among others the fixed importance of public broadcasting as a central player in an informed and open society. It shall contribute to an informed and accessible societal debate and shall ensure that we are kept up-to-date at all times on important events both domestic and foreign. It is very good that the Stortinget today determines that we should have a strong main player in this work, free of advertising and with important tasks on behalf of Norwegian language and culture. The NRK has managed this task for a long time, and nothing suggests a shift. However, it is important for the Right to think in principle, as it is also in agreement that we should have a commercial public broadcaster with some of the same tasks: full news coverage, office outside Oslo and opening up for some limited tasks to attend to Norwegian language and culture. Others have thoroughly reviewed the content of the joint agreement on the basis of which the Committee was set up. Thank you to everyone, and in particular to the case-rapporteur, too much work and for the result we have to deal with today. As I said, it is important to have an agreement that creates predictability in dealing with such a case. I must nevertheless have some comments on this with funding. The lots couldn't wait for what's coming later in that area. It's not that weird. As committee members, we have repeatedly been invited to debates where this has been the subject long before the notification came. In addition, it may be challenging to think of a principle approach without automatically enclosing that solutions require funding. I guess we're actually trained to think through whether proposals have a financial and budgetary impact in the short or long term. The third element that also challenges us is the coincidence that the contract for the commercial public broadcaster expires this year. Discussions on a further agreement have also naturally included discussions on any partial financing. I am therefore pleased that the timing points to the need for clarification for the commercial generalcaster as quickly as possible, and at the same time asks for some concrete models for future generalcaster funding to be further explored. It'll be exciting to see where this lands. I have to say, however, that I am surprised when some representatives go out later in the press conference and interpret the position as a concrete promise of support for commercial broadcasting. It must also be allowed to point out that this comes from parties which in this room in repeated cases have referred to the group of commercial actors as selfish and greedy businesses that bottle up public and build up their own wealth. Whether or not a commercial public broadcaster should receive support in the future is not decided. It requires a thorough assessment and any clear conditions. Promises that are unprincipled and without a factual basis cannot be seen as anything but momentary populism.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1310	Today, we may be debating the most important cultural policy issue of the year. The role of universal broadcasting is important for a society. In cooperation with other media, public broadcasters will play a role that only they can play – a role that is still evolving over time, but which has clear policy objectives and values. Of course, the size has an opportunity to say clearly and loudly what direction we want for the public broadcasters. This weekend I saw, like the representative Trettebergstuen, the Norwegian Melodi Grand Prix. It is very pleasant to record that some young people also followed the shipment. It says something about the NRK's success safety and not least the responsibility of a demanding and large production of music. The Nordic largest talk show, Skavlan, is another example – a Nordic cultural meeting. We are exposed to Nordic languages, we meet new and famous cultural personalities and people with different skills together with the rest of the world – inspiring and absolutely of great cultural value, as opposed to what the representative Thomsen says to Dagbladet 25 November 2014: «The NRK must become more boring.» He says that NRK must make less entertainment and less entertaining television in the years to come, and: ‘They sit and glorify themselves with good audiences up there in the broadcaster’s house and distribute diplomas to each other for high audiences.’ In stark contrast, this is not about amusing things, but what's going to be funny is the representative Thomsen's answer in the debate earlier. I would also like to highlight Skavlan in connection with the exposure of new Norwegian music and, for that matter, new Nordic music. It is essential that we show the political will to facilitate a high proportion of Norwegian music. I am pleased that the setting facilitates the demands of public broadcasters to increase the proportion of Norwegian music in NRK P1, P2 and P3 from 35 to 40 pst. It's exemplary, also in a Nordic perspective. It is also appropriate to consider whether a proportion of this should be Norwegian-language music. If I had personally thanked the NRK for something, it would, like the representative Berge Stag did, have been for the bet on children, namely the NRK Super. In the sense of the word, I think that channel has turned out to be a public broadcaster worthy. The channel deals with issues that are important and time-consuming, rather than mass production of baby soap operas, that we get in heaps and loads elsewhere. In my quiet moments with my own children or the children of others, I thank you for the good professional environment has come up with such a good way to produce children. It's just taking off your hat for that. If there's something I wanted more of, there's bet on youth. Finally, I have to go to the district offices. As a wholesaler, I want to be part of and facilitate skilled work across the country. It is therefore important that we have the ability to have broadcasting and professional environments throughout the country. That's where lives live, that's where content is created. Time and again, when we are challenged in emergency situations, we need to decentralize the environment and offices. Not least, we see it over and over again when good things are created and made. One job in Rogaland is as important as one job in Oslo. Let's not deceive ourselves into thinking that it's not important in a time when someone could actually have been sitting in New York and making all the broadcasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1332	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1335	Norway has one of Europe’s best public broadcasters. It is the result of a deliberate policy with the NRK and not least clear leaders. Everyone remembers – perhaps not everyone, but at least those who read history – Einar Fördes's plight and initiative in establishing district offices, and what it has meant and means – we take it as a matter of course today, but it was a struggle without equal – to get stories from all over the country, and not least for the daily change of words. TV 2 has also been important for developing public broadcasting. We've got two strong environments that have challenged each other and made each other mutually good. But what we're experiencing today is that the media are changing rapidly. This applies both nationally and globally. That's why we're impatient to put in place a framework for a commercial public broadcaster, because we've seen that development has gone much faster than we expected in this industry, which means so much for public vocabulary and having an open debate, not least for a country that has a relatively small language, and where we're so dependent on being able to face and challenge not least strong international, global forces. I heard that we were going to get it within ten months – at least it was a deadline that I understood the council had set itself. But there are also other exciting things happening: in Bergen, we were first out establishing and establishing media at university level. Now let's take a step further by making a media link that's going to look at both new business models and how we're going to reach out with communication in new ways, because the audience is changing, and how we use media, changing. There is also TV 2 very central – they are the engine in that development and in putting that cluster in place. The Culture Committee must also be aware that a commercial actor – similar to the NRC – means a lot to jobs, which the last speaker was also involved in. The special thing is that there is TV 2 in Bergen that has managed to establish new businesses. A whole seven new companies have emerged in the edge zone around TV2 in Bergen. The most famous are Vizrt, Storm and Mossart. In total, they're transferring for 5 billion today. kr. In order for Norway to be able to have such an international position in both research and to face challenges with regard to future dissemination, we are dependent on taking good action today. As a mountainer, I think it's a happy day – also on behalf of the whole country – that we now have a good deal in place, so that we can strengthen both NRK and TV 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1350	There has been a good and clarifying debate, and when Ib Thomsen by the President is referred to as ‘Ibsen’, and he also declares that now it is the end of the sloping security; hereafter we only have to listen to experts, then we realize that this is to the most extent a dynamic field. The Progress Party, however, makes it clear that they are outside the whole policy of this matter. It's with respect to not reporting correctly. I have not registered any proposal from the Progress Party to vote against any of the things that are promoted in the Storing Message. In other words, they're behind the message, albeit slightly further behind than the Right, but they're behind it. Furthermore, Thomsen claims that what the parties to the agreement have come up with is a victory for the Progress Party. Then it's funny that it's the other parties that have made sure to collect the greatest victory of the Progress Party on the media field, not the Progress Party itself, despite having now been in government for two years without lifting a finger for what has been their primary position. But I would remind you that in the mandate of the Committee of Experts on Future Financing for the NRK, it is very clear: ‘Furthermore, it is assumed that the NRK shall be free from advertising and financed mainly by the public.’ Point 4 of the mandate excludes direct funding from the State budget. So we are left with a total change of attitude to this issue by the Progress Party and, in reality, a total increase in the overall view of funding public broadcasting. I think that's a pleasure. So there's been some discussion about the progress of future commercial public broadcasting. It's natural. This is not a small matter we are talking about – it is a very important matter for the media landscape in Norway. Uncertainty has been linked to the future financing of commercial public broadcasting. The government has pushed the matter ahead, and the Council of State has contributed to unnecessary new uncertainty about the follow-up to the agreement. This was the field where the Council of State already announced in the Castle Square that she would go inside and clean up. I feel that today's debate has at least helped to clear up the uncertainty that the Council of State itself has created, and that the Council of State has now realized that she has met the wall and will not come any way with the attempt she tried in the chronicle in the Official Journal of Bergen, to push this even more in front of her. With this setting and today's debate, I feel that we have taken new steps in shaping the future media policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1373	There has been an exciting debate – a bit as expected. But at the same time, there is a rather strange debate, because here we have presented a big message – an important big message, as everyone says – about the future of broadcasting in Norway, and almost did not comment on it in the pulpit. We have commented on the agreement, and in particular on the points in the agreement that are not included in the notice. That's why I needed to take a trip up and point out a little bit of it. I want to say, as the council said, that Solhell had a great post about what this is about, how we're going to build society in the future, how we're going to make sure that everyone can be part of it. Then I would like to raise something that is the result of what we are adopting here today, namely the value of a nationally strong journalistic environment. And we're also going to facilitate this through what we're adopting here today. It's important for us to keep it. There had been no problem letting the foreign players take over this market. Several of them are ready to do it. But we are clear that we want a strong Norwegian environment, which is part of the Norwegian environment, and which communicates with it as a background. It's important to us. Then we determine the value of the Norwegian and Nordic language areas, for example. by pointing out that it is important for our children to also friends to listen to the Nordic languages and not get everything translated or duplicated, but simply learn to be part of Nordic cooperation and a Nordic exchange. And then we don't least feel that we make it so clear that there should be demands on music, art, culture in the public broadcasting we're going to have in Norway, which is absolutely vital to bring forward the Norwegian we have in that area, and the talents we have in that area. Now there was a part here that had obviously followed the Melodi Grand Prix on Saturday – I have to admit that I slept after song 2, but it was probably the outdoor activities on the mountain that did. But there are important carriers to get the Norwegian, and we must appreciate that in such a case. Then I just want to give you a little warning. I think there are a lot of people here who conclude that when we have asked for a model to be investigated, that's the way it is. It's an investigation we've been asking for, and then we're going to make an independent decision when we have a basis for doing so, both in terms of the agreement with commercial public broadcasters, and in terms of the model it should be for the main public broadcaster. I also want to remind you that radio is important to include in this picture. It'll be important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1384	Thank you very much for a good debate. There have been a few very few wrestles in some old ideological muscles and references to wing clipping etc., but I think the NRK is living well – both now, last year and before – with its good budgets, and that they will also live well in the future, after this announcement goes through in the Storting today. Essentially, we've been looking up and being principled, and I think that's important when we're going to continue media diversity debates in the future as well. The government's message is now going through, with some reinforcements and some additional pressure on the running processes. But it has even actually been called good. It's nice, and it came not only from the Right and the Advance Party, but also from parties that we often disagree with. The future of media pluralism is interesting to discuss, and we, as the representative of Grande, have only begun to do so. Then there have been some concrete proposals, and they are being adopted today, mainly unanimously. The representative of Grande pointed out that the Progress Party was outside – he was the one who mentioned it in his post. The Progress Party is involved in many of the proposals, and many of them are then unanimously adopted today. The challenges surrounding some of them are well described, and the trust that the government will deal with them in a good way is established. I think it's just the Workers' Party that, possibly, still has some uncertainty about this, and one got the impression that the date was more important than the solution. And as we talk about media and media pluralism, we can read on Campaign, which covers this debate right now: «The Minister of Culture has created uncertainty, dares the Labour Party on the Stortinget today.» I do not know whether the representative Grande agrees that he dares, but at least that is how it is presented. And the right "was far in suggesting that there was a big hiei in Ap for nothing". I would like to confirm that, because here it was attempted to create uncertainty, not from the Minister of Culture, but from the Workers' Party. They have over several days tried to create this uncertainty about the agreement that I feel the rest of the Storting understands very well, and they agree very much. At the same time, there's nothing wrong with more parties seeing that things have to be seen in context, and that it's not detached processes, but that we've started a work. In some areas, the government has been asked to provide it, and I think it is very easy to stand behind. One doesn't rule out the other. We have increased the pace, we need to solve the challenges, we need to see things in context, and I want to thank you for – essentially – a really good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1402	I would also like to thank the Committee and the European Parliament for a good debate, which points forward, and confirms that, on the part of the authorities, we are committed to ensuring good public broadcasting in the future. Although some people are trying to create a big hierarchy for nothing – the representatives of the Labour Party, in particular the representative of Grande, have gone out in the newspapers and, with harshness and bram, launched that this is a breach of agreement, and threatens the Minister of Culture that this will be a very tough thing for us because the Minister of Culture is not dealing with the Stortinget – all parties have actually concluded that we have a common understanding of what is in the position, that the government is going to take an initiative during 2016 and come to the Stortinget. The fact that we have an expert selection and a media diversity selection that is involved and helps to evaluate and evaluate is a good thing that we're going to bring with us. I have always been clear that we will not end up as we did in Denmark – Danish TV 2 had to repay many million kroner for illegal state aid. That is why it is very important that we assess this thoroughly, also because it should be done in ESA. And that's the way we can read in today's business today, that many other players are also on the road. It also makes us deal with this with extra care. A scheme providing grants to a commercial public broadcaster must have legitimacy and stand by when others test it. It goes without saying that a thorough procedure is absolutely necessary. That's why I'm glad so many from this pulpit today express understanding and respect for the fact that this work is demanding, and that we have to go into it thoroughly before we conclude. But I would also like to stress that I am very impatient, also because there are major challenges that we are going to find answers to, and I would like to stress that the government is concerned about the progress of this work. We are also concerned that we should have a good process with the actors involved in the field. I have therefore already taken some action, e.g. to the Media Multiplicity Committee, which is now given a clarification of its mandate and also clarified the progress of its work. Then I look forward to the best solutions for quality, sustainability and diversity in the media industry of the future, and thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1411	The representative of Arild Grande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1414	It has been necessary for the Stortinget, who has now entered into an obligating agreement, across – I had just said – all parties, to clear up any misunderstandings of the way. I feel that this debate has contributed to this, although I am sorry that many rounds of questions had to be asked in order to clear it up. If this representative has not dared all the world, I have at least recorded that it has built up thunderbolts from the West. It was important that we clear up the uncertainty that the Council of State itself created, so that we all have a common understanding of what the agreement involves, and that we now expect rapid progress in the matter. It is the Council of State itself that decides whether the spring is characterized by discriminating sky, or whether new thunderbolts build up. In any case, we should follow with our eyes on the fact that what we have agreed today is being followed up to the point and the point. We will then build on the future media policy, including in the field of public broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1419	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1433	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1440	It is Mazyar Keshvar who has been the case spokesperson for this matter, but he is prevented from meeting today, so I will briefly present the matter and say a little about the views of the government parties on the matter. It is a proposal from the Labour Party representatives Eirik Sivertsen, Marit Nybakk, Marianne Aasen, Stine Renate Håheim, Truls Wickholm and Åsmund Aukrust on an identity clearance programme for Iraqis in Norway. The proposers will certainly do their own thing and the background to the proposal, but briefly I can say that the initiative on the matter is a number of people from Iraq who have been detained in Norway on a humanitarian basis in the period 1998-2000, but they have not received citizenship because of doubts about their identity. Suggestion providers therefore want to have an identity clearance tool that allows you to know the identity of the identity. Any costs shall be covered by a fee, referred to in the proposal. The proposers also point out that more stringent requirements for a proven identity for withdrawal periods on a humanitarian basis have been introduced in retrospect. Therefore, I suggest that one in the future will not face similar situations if one establishes such a system. The Committee has had an in-depth discussion of this matter and so on. held an open hearing on 20 October, on which the NOAS, the Norwegian Citizenship Action Group and the Taha Law Firm met. In the Committee's proceedings on this matter, a number of the representatives' proposals have been crystallized, to which all parties, with the exception of the government parties, have joined, where a encouraged government to come back with a clarification programme, in line with the proposed proposals by the proposers. Then I want to go over to do a little bit of a little bit for the minority, i.e. government party, view this matter. For us, it is important to state that Norwegian citizenship is to hang high, and that demands made on a clear identity in civil law should not be lowered. Fortunately, a number in the Committee support us in such a formulation. In addition, we are pleased that a number of cases indicate that there are exceptions in today's legislation that ensure that applicants under the age of 17 when approving their first residence permit will have the possibility to deal with the matter, so that today's legislation far from loading children for parental relationships. Furthermore, it is important for us in the Progress Party to point out that document counterfeiting is a serious problem in all asylum matters. Seeking asylum on the wrong basis leads to the recovery of the institution of asylum, and lately we have a lot of talk, both in the social debate and from this pulpit, about the signal and about the importance of sending out a signal. I just want to point out that today's Greatness is about to do, can also be perceived – and will be perceived – as a signal out in the big world. The progress party will be very clear that we are in a situation where the only signal that is natural to send out is intrusions, and we do not think it is good that the bulk of the crash today sends out a different kind of signal than what we in the fall gather about in this room. In addition, this work that is now going to impose on the government — and later on the administration — will contribute to a user’s procedural capacity that one would like to have used for other things in the situation in Norway. Finally, I think it is important that today's debate can clarify what will happen if any programme that one wants to get in place results in information indicating that a person has provided incorrect information in order to obtain the authorisation of asylum cases. It's important that we get to the challenge of what's going on here. Is the idea that one should have an amnesty, where one can somehow get away with that kind of information? In this case, a serious, false signal will be sent out in the current situation, that there will be no consequences if a person provides incorrect information in the asylum process. So I hope that the further debate will clarify what the pluralist parties have done in their interpretation. For us in the Progress Party, at least it is very important that we are clear that it should never pay to give false information. Therefore, we hope that the debate will clarify that it is not the idea here that a person should escape with incorrect information in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1461	First of all, I must say that the fact that asylum seekers give the correct identity is absolutely essential for the effectiveness of the procedure and for the authorities to establish the real need for protection. The work on identity clearance is therefore important in order to protect the institution of asylum. That is why the Red-Green Government took several initiatives in this field, including: rapid handling of cases where asylum seekers had cheated with identity, and we also established a national identity and documentation centre. But identity clarification is also important for us as a society and for our security – that we know who is in our country. And so today we have a group of people in our country who have been accommodated, but we don't know the identity of. Our proposal will be able to do something about it. Let me put it this way: to the extent that signals are sent out from this room, we are sending today a signal that there is a limited group of people with Iraqi citizenship who were given humanitarian residence in 1998, 1999 and 2000, and they were allowed to stay despite doubt about their identity. There were Norwegian foreign authorities who chose to do so. It is also important to clarify that the proposal does not deal with those who gave the wrong nationality and thus received residence on the wrong basis. It only deals with those who gave the wrong name or date of birth, as an example, i.e. information that did not affect whether they were staying or not. Then we can say today – and that is true to the extent that we too – that these people should have given their right identity when they arrived. It would have been easier for the individuals involved, and it would save society from resources. But at some point we also have to realize that the past we can't always do anything about in this room – that's the future we have to make choices on behalf of. These are people who have had permanent stays in Norway, and they have now been here for over 16 years. They pay taxes, have jobs, have family and settle down in our society. For those concerned, it is important to clarify their identity, so that they can apply for citizenship, to seek democratic rights. This is a difficult matter for those involved, and offers many challenges, and I do not think we should underestimate the negative effect it has on people who have legal and long-term residence in Norway not being able to apply for citizenship and have democratic rights. So many of these have tried to clean up on their own. They have contacted the foreign authorities and the police to inform them that their registered identity is incorrect, but they have been informed that it is not possible to change it. In the past, there has been a broad consensus that there is a desire to facilitate identity clarification. When, in 2012, the Stortinge dealt with changes to the Civil Code, which settled the situation for the children of this group, all parties outside the Advance Party wrote the following in the vote: ‘The majority indicate that the government does not make proposals in the regulation on a similar scheme for adults who have come to Norway after the age of 17. For this group, it is important that the government looks at schemes to make it easier to identify.’ Later, the National ID Centre has submitted a report on Iraqi citizens residing in Norway, and they wrote the following: ‘Through the work we have been confirmed that it is possible to verify the identity of Iraqis in Norway against Iraqi records. [[...]] Our main recommendation, therefore, is that all Iraqis should be verified with a sense of identity." The Party of Advancement and the Right writes in its observations that the persons concerned have a clear situation of permanent residence in Norway. That's right, but what's totally absent from the comments of the Right Party and the Advance Party is what society needs to know who's in our country. I agree with Mr Solveig Horne, who, in his letter to the Committee, wrote the following: ‘Knowing the identity of those in Norway is important for a number of sectors and services and social security.’ We have now received a report from the National ID Centre saying that this is feasible. We also know that it has been done with the so-called MUFs. All the information we have says that this is possible. It's clear that there are balances here, but I think society is well served that we clean up, both in the interests of the individual people involved, and not least in the interests of society's need to know who is actually in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1490	Citizenship provides for a strengthened identity, commitment and membership of Norway while at the same time granting democratic rights. Norwegian citizenship shall be high and the requirements for a clear identity should not be lowered. Christian People's Party neither wants nor supports to open up a general amnesty. The institution of asylum and the rules of the Civil Code shall continue to be practised as at present. But these principles must not lead us to see or address real challenges in order to find good solutions. Yes, citizenship is a binding social contract. As in this case, it can also contribute to the greater integration of a demarcated group from Iraq that wants to participate in society with duties and rights — yes, which is already involved. They have not yet been able to obtain Norwegian citizenship because of doubts about their identity. They came to Norway as asylum seekers and stayed on a humanitarian basis up to approx. in 2000, that's over 15 years ago. It is likely that the foreign authorities have correctly based their residence permit decisions on identity concerns, even if they have been given a permanent residence decision in the country. The doubt for this group applies only to the name and date of birth. Information on nationality and ethnicity is correct. This demarcated group of people among us has lived and stayed legally in the country and wants to be able to contribute and participate like us, for the benefit of the community. The Christian People's Party believes that it will be positive for the individuals concerned, and for society, to clarify their identity so that they can apply for Norwegian citizenship. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that there is an overview of who is in our country – and that they live here with proper names and identities. In the case, it is explained the various reasons why there is doubt about the identity. This applies to the name used in other Dublin countries, to the lack of evidence and sufficient notoriety under the Civil Code in the ordinary sense. The consequence is that they have been practically denied their lifetime citizenship in Norway, which can be perceived as a contradiction because they have at the same time approved residence permits and contribute to society like us. The Christian People's Party sees that there is a very special situation here and therefore supports the matter as an extraordinary measure. Perhaps it is extra special when someone knows that the spouses and children have a different status, even though they have come here because of the first one to receive a residence permit. However, the practice followed for this group can actually be divided into two: those who have provided the correct identity and those who have provided the incorrect identity. Several have registered in other countries, but because of different translations, a transscription error can simply be the only cause of doubt. Fortunately, many things have been corrected by the Norwegian authorities here. Some say that in fear of reprisals against family members who remained in their home country, they have deliberately stated the wrong identity in Norway when they sought asylum. Others are and have been in a situation where it is not possible to obtain documentation from their home country. The Christian People's Party shares the view that the proposers point to in terms of the human and family consequences. Otherwise, the proposers refer to the report of the National ID Centre in 2013, Identity: Iraqis in Norway, where it says: ‘The mapping of the practice of Iraq matters in the foreign administration shows that there is a need to explore the possibilities to verify foreign affairs against Iraqi personal records in order to establish identity.’ It goes on to say: ‘Through the work we have been confirmed that it is possible to verify the identity of Iraqis in Norway against Iraqi records.’ And on the other hand, ‘Our main recommendation is therefore that all Iraqis should be verified with a willingness to identify.’ The proposal we are debating points to a solution in which an identity clearance programme with time-limited access for them is launched in order to clarify its identity. Costs may be recovered in the event of charges being levied. The grouping itself has proposed this. Those who choose to participate will be able to provide and have their correct identity verified. I would like to add that there are stricter requirements for documented identity afterwards. It is therefore important for the Christian People's Party to stress that this will not create precedent for other groups in other matters. Finally, I would also like to make it clear that the Christian People's Party supports the proposal that any convicted person should not be covered by such an identity clearance programme and would stress that Section 26 of the National Act allows for withdrawal of citizenship if it is based on incorrect or incomplete information.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1531	It is natural that people who have been given permanent residence in Norway, who have lived here for a long time and who are integrated into working and social life, want to become Norwegian citizens. Citizenship strengthens their belonging to the society of which they have become a part. The group covered by today’s draft representative has been in Norway for 15 years or more. They have been granted permanent residence and have established a family here in the country, but do not have civil rights. The majority's proposal for a decision on the matter will address this issue. I believe that is in everyone's interest, both in the interests of Norway and the Iraqis concerned – those covered by the proposal. All members of the Committee, including the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party, who are not members of the majority, and also the Council of State which has given its opinion on the matter, agree that it would be beneficial to clarify the conditions preventing the persons concerned from obtaining citizenship. So there doesn't seem to be any fundamental differences in vision, just different emphasis on the considerations to be taken into account. The proposal, which seems to have a solid majority here in the United Kingdom, is to establish a time-limited identity clearance programme for Iraqi citizens who have been refused on the basis of a lack of documented identity. Following today's legislation, the lack of a clear identity will not grant a permanent residence permit. So it's not like we're opening up rules to allow permanent residence for people who don't contribute to identity clearance. In her letter to the Committee, the Council of State says that she does not see it as realistic to launch a programme for Iraqis seeking help to document their identity. She may probably be right that not everyone will get the clarification they are applying for. However, the fact is that in a separate report, the National ID Centre, which is an expert body under the Directorate of Police, has confirmed that it is possible to verify the identity of this group in cooperation with local authorities in Iraq. They recommend in the report that this job be done, which the Council of State does not want to follow up. Of course, the centre party fully agrees with those who do not wish to weaken the provisions requiring asylum seekers to prove their identity when applying for a residence permit in Norway. That's not what this case is about. We will therefore stress the importance of ensuring that the establishment of an identity clearance programme for the group of Iraqis cannot be seen in any way as derogating from existing legislation. However, it is very difficult to accept that people who have been granted permanent residence under previous legislation should be excluded for all future periods from the possibility of citizenship in order to prevent misunderstandings about the introduction of a more liberal practice for asylum seekers in Norway today. We have therefore stated that the establishment of an identity clearance programme needs to focus on distinguishing Iraqis who gave up the wrong identity because of risks to life and health, and those who were not persecuted but used the wrong identity to obtain a residence permit. On this basis, we in the Centre Party support the motion for a resolution, where the Stortinget asks the government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for a time-limited identity clearance program for Iraqis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1548	The left is pleased that there is a majority in favour of the proposal for a time-limited identity clearance programme for Iraqi nationals who have been refused an application for Norwegian citizenship on the basis of a lack of documented identity. At the same time, there is a reflection, which the representative Mr Tuskedal had in his speech, that obligations and rights are important also in the case of citizenship, which in many ways confirms our identity. This opportunity now provided by clarifying the identity is important for many Iraqis in Norway who experience it as a burden on themselves and their families that they do not come out of a situation with a sense of identity — a will of identity which is not the result of individual relationships, but which is due to the fact that Iraq’s identity documents are not considered to have sufficient notoriety. At the same time, there is a social benefit by providing more opportunities for full participation in our society as Norwegian citizens, in addition to the economic saving, by reducing the time and resources spent by foreign agencies on the ongoing follow-up of new assessments of these issues. We've done it before. We had an ID clearance program for the so-called MUFs in 2001, and now we're doing it again. The report produced by the National ID Centre in 2013 is comprehensive and robust. The documentation and registration situation in Iraq was closely monitored and the verification possibilities were examined. It was established that it is possible to verify the identity of Iraqis in Norway against Iraqi registries. All Iraqis may initially provide identity documentation which may be used for such verification. Therefore, the ID Centre’s clear recommendation was that Iraqis should be given the opportunity to verify their identity. Fuzzy identity is one of the main reasons why applicants are refused an application for citizenship in Norway. In the event of doubt as to the identity provided, applicants must prove or demonstrate their identity. This would be demanding and, in some cases, impossible when documentation from the home Member State is not considered to have sufficient notoriety with the non-resident management. Many Iraqis experience that they are listed with incorrect identity and that they are not heard when they ask to change the correct identity because the documentation is not accepted. Now you get an opportunity to get your identity verified. This does not automatically imply the granting of citizenship. The conditions of citizenship must be considered separately. Nor, as some have said, is this an amnesty – definitely not. The proposal gives Iraqis who are currently registered with incorrect identity an opportunity to be registered with their correct identity. The aim of all identity clarifications must be to clarify the correct identity. The use of incorrect identity information undermines the important work on identity clarifications. The Left therefore supports the important and necessary cleanup and believes that this is an important part of the overall effort to clarify identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1571	That people who live in Norway have the right identity is very important. It is primarily in the Norwegian authorities’ strong interest to clarify the identity of those to whom the identity can be clarified. And that is why this proposal is important, because this is a group that it is possible to clarify the identity of through the identity clearance programme proposed. I am fully committed to the contribution that was made by the representative of Håheim in the matter, who is also the proposer. It is important for Norwegian authorities, and of course it is important for the people involved. So it's a win-win situation we're now hopefully able to move into -- for a small group, but anyway. I also need to mention that there is a strong need now to put in place better identification systems throughout the Schengen area. SV has mentioned quite a few times the need for more use of biometrics, and that these systems are in place, because it is very important to know who is in the area and that you cannot operate with multiple identities. It creates great difficulties for everyone. That being said, some of the people who have come and stated the wrong identity have had some reason for it, which I don't think we can just pass away. Some have not dared to be clear about who they are because they have feared that they will be persecuted by the authorities or other groups when they seek asylum or asylum in other countries. These ones that we are now talking about, fled when Saddam Hussein crashed into Iraq, and it was probably not without reason that many of them were afraid of their lives. There are sometimes reasons for entering the wrong identity. Other reasons could be that they've been to other countries and given an identity there, and that they're afraid to be sent back. That may not be a good argument, but the last argument, which I think applies to many, is that they get a lot of bad advice along the way from people who don't necessarily want them good, but from which they hear a lot of stories. I have been away from a lot of people who have been advised very strongly to give false identity, and it has hit them very hard in retrospect. So the group we're talking about is people who live in Norway, who have got it, there's no doubt they're going to stay in Norway, but they haven't figured out their identity. They are willing to do so, and it is possible to do so – it also says the National ID Centre – and then it must be in everyone's interest to do so. The identity was not essential for the residence permit that was granted, it is also important to underline. It has nothing to do with the fact that they would not be allowed to stay if they had provided the correct identity. These are people with a very strong connection to the kingdom, who have been here for a long time. There is no group we can compare them with today, so what someone calls the ‘infection effect’ is not present if we adopt this proposal, because it is so clearly confined to a very specific group under very specific conditions. This identity clearance program is possible to implement, we've heard several speakers say before me, so I don't have to repeat it. It is also important, of course, for these people who have rotted in Norway and who will be here and contribute, that they will have the opportunity to apply for citizenship. I am very pleased that there will be a majority for this proposal. I would like to thank the proposers for this and hope that the Council of State is ready to implement this. I see that the Council of State is concerned about procedural capacity, but then perhaps you can look at some of the proposals that the Council of State made at Christmas, which are very bureaucratic and will require a huge increase in the procedure if they were to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1590	I waited on purpose for the longest before drawing, precisely because I wanted to hear the proposers justify their comments and their proposal. With regard to the view of the Right and the Advance Party in this matter, I think the representative Njåstad explained well. I also believe that the Council of State will come up with the details, and I'm not going to spend the time re-reading our comments. The reason why I take the floor is that now all the parties that have voted in favour of the proposal have had the opportunity to justify it. There's a paradox here that I think is unanswered. Almost everyone who has spoken has said that identity clearance is a crucial principle for getting a stay in Norway, while saying that if you were in the situation of giving up a false identity, you can look back and say that now is the time to clean up, and then you get something that someone would call amnesty. I'm not going to use that word, because it can be used in other contexts. But there are some paradoxes here if I compare what the proposers say from the pulpit, and what you put in the final proposal. So there's another thing: it's been mentioned in countless debates, especially from the Workers' Party, SV also and not least the Center Party that now the influx of asylum is great, we need more resources, the capacity is blown up, and what does the government do to deal with these things? Nevertheless, one is in favour of a proposal that will seize the capacity to clean up such old cases, when we have such an acute situation as we have put right behind us, and perhaps we will have an emergency situation again – I will not try to anticipate any events or give some analysis of what it means, what is now happening in the Mediterranean in the next few months, but there are some paradoxes here that make me think the debate is going to be incomplete. The majority have spoken, and that is okay, but the debate is incomplete. All those who have spoken on the part of the rapporteurs have pointed to the clarification of their identity. All the proposers have pointed to capacity throughout the autumn, but this is no longer the case because a case is so and so old. I think that this is now being adopted, and of course we should respect that, but the paradox that we have before us is here, and that is that in the course of the debate, none of the proposers have been able to shed light on this in a good enough way. It's hanging again, and it's a little bit of a shame, because what happens when today's cases are 10–15 years old? What, then, are we going to adopt?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1601	Initially, I would like to stress the importance of the signals sent out by the Norwegian authorities in today's situation. Providing an amnesty for cases where false identity information has been deliberately provided may undermine respect for the work on ID clearances, which is a very central point for the foreign authorities. The lack of secure ID documents is problematic and complicates the control of foreigners and the return of illegal residents. I note that the majority of the committee supports the government's view that citizenship should be high and that the requirements for a clear identity under the citizenship law should not be lowered. The majority in the Committee agree that it is unfortunate to open up amnesty to persons with incorrect identity in Norway. The majority of the Committee emphasises that falsification of documents is a serious problem and that seeking asylum on a wrong basis helps to erode the institution of asylum. We have people in Norway, among others. some Iraqis, who have a permanent residence permit but who, due to doubt of identity, do not fulfil the conditions of Norwegian citizenship. We used to have a group that was refused because they were registered in another country, where their names were spelled differently than in Norway. UDI has gained more knowledge of the routines of other countries in such cases, and authentication studies of documents in such cases have resulted in the majority of those in this group becoming nationals in the last two to three years. UDI reports that there is a large group that has two, three or four completely different identities in Norway and other European countries. Many have reported different birthplaces in Iraq, and some have also provided false documents. Such a doubt about identity is hard to ignore, because we can't trust Iraqi documents. This is confirmed by the report of the National ID Centre of May 2013. The report also says that it is possible to verify matters in Iraq. However, UDI’s experience is that in practice verification is demanding, because there is limited capacity of Iraqi authorities. The quality of the verifications carried out by Iraqi authorities is also uncertain, among others. due to the high level of corruption in the country. Overall, I believe that such verification is so challenging that it is not reasonable to initiate an identity clearance programme presented in the proposal for a representative. I refer to the minority in the committee, which says that it is unfortunate to bind capacity in the UDI in the current situation, and that the people involved have a permanent residence permit in Norway, and thus have a clear situation. A prerequisite for verification is the provision of correct identity information. Persons who have provided incorrect information must change their explanation before it is possible to confirm their correct identity. A changed explanation will routinely assess whether there is a basis for withdrawing a residence permit. It appears that the proposers will guarantee that new identity information will not have an impact on participants in such an identity clearance programme. In this case, I agree with the minority in the Committee, which states that this will'send a signal to newcomers to immigrants that false identity can be declared in Norway without having real consequences'. We will follow up the decision of the Storting, but I would like to stress that the capacity that needs to be used here will go beyond the work on other issues in the foreign administration, and that everyone here is familiar with, there are thousands of issues that are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1626	What's a paradox is that you say ID is important, while you don't want to do anything to prevent people living and staying in Norway from getting their identity clear. What's interesting is how these people, among other things, obtain travel documents. I refer you to the letter from the then Minister of Integration Solvency Horne, who wrote that the control procedures for issuing Iraqi G-passes and A-passes were deficient, and that there was a great opportunity to obtain valid passports with false identity. This is what is happening today, and then I wonder if the Council of State is comfortable with many people out there who can get valid passports for false identity. What is the option for the government council when the government parties vote against an ID clearance program for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1633	What with identity is a challenge, because very many of those who come to Norway as asylum seekers come without documents. In reality, Norwegian authorities do not know where they come from or what identity they have. This is why, among other things: the government in the proposed tightening proposal several suggestions on how to strengthen the work of biometrics – getting the fingerprint link up to a passport – and that more than today have to give fingerprints in relation to applications. I believe that a Norwegian citizenship should hang high. I believe that it is fundamentally wrong that people who cannot verify who they are should get it. When information is also collected from Iraq, it is relatively uncertain – when you look at the level of corruption in that country – it will be very challenging. Of course, we will follow up, but I think it is completely wrong to send out at a time when the flow to Norway is great, and where many come without a known identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1640	The councils don't answer what's my question, because this is the actual situation. This is the way this group of people obtain travel documents today. We have no guarantee that they are real or registered on the right identity. That means that people can get passports that are not on their own identity. You can operate with multiple identities and go in and out of Europe without us registering where they are. My question is, is the Council of State comfortable with that? This will continue if we don't get to know the identity of these people. So the government council mentions corruption. Then I would like to ask: Is corruption more likely when individuals in Norway are dealing with Iraqi authorities or the embassy, or is corruption less likely if Norwegian authorities have direct contact with Iraqi authorities and individuals are not involved? That's the alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1647	It is the UDI who has past experience with Iraqi authorities and points out that it is a problem that Iraq is considered one of the most corrupt countries in the world. Well, they're in the 8's place. In many cases, a regular passport could be issued, but the problem is that it is not certain that it is the right person who has the legitimate passport. It's a problem. In terms of identity, I think we have a lot of, many things we're going to work with in Norway now. People who came last year are waiting to find out what identity you have. I therefore believe that there will be the wrong use of resources in the situation we are in now, to have such a program. But then the Storting has adopted it. I believe it is to send the wrong signal, but we will of course follow up on what the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1654	We're talking about resources in the UDI. In the report published by the National ID Centre, a solution was identified, for example: be able to strengthen the embassy in Amman or Baghdad with personnel having direct contact. The National ID Centre also writes that it is possible to assist in the verification work at the embassy if you wish. So my question is, how much resources do the foreign authorities spend on issues today where there is unexplained identity – on new decisions, follow-up and that kind of thing? Wouldn't it be an advantage for the foreign agencies too if we had clarified the identity of these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1661	How much resources are used today, I cannot respond on the standing floor, so I may have to do an investigation and get back to writing. However, it is clear that the UDI will need to use resources on these issues when launching such an identification programme. Those who are currently working to identify those who arrived last year are the same as those who are working to deal with asylum applications that are now in a row for treatment. So these are the same people we need to give priority to. I believe that the right thing in the situation we are in now should be to give priority to them to deal with the asylum influx that we had last year and that we can potentially get this year. Looking now at the influx into Europe – from Turkey to Greece – there is great reason to believe that the asylum flow to Norway this year can also be very high.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1666	The members of the Committee from the Right and the Progressive Party say that they are in principle positive that persons who are subject to difficult identity clearance should be given the opportunity to apply for citizenship in Norway, but further indicates that since the group in question already has a clear situation of permanent residence, it would be unwise to support the proposal for a declaration of identity. From my point of view, it is important that persons who are permanently resident in Norway, who have worked here and who have all social rights in line with others, also have the rights and obligations of a Norwegian citizenship. I believe it strengthens their commitment and their loyalty to the country. Is such consideration agreed by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1673	I believe that those who meet the criteria for citizenship can get it. It is a matter of, among other things, must know their identity. The problem with these things is that there are some people we don't know about, even there are some people who have listed up to four different identities. I think it would be wrong to introduce them to a Norwegian citizenship. But we're going to start the program that Stortinget wants, and come back to this -- in line with what Stortinget wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1678	I very much agree with what is being said by the government team and the council that we should not send out the wrong signal. I fully share that in this situation, and we have to think carefully through it, so that we can find the tools and policies that work as we want. Then I have problems thinking that an identity clearance program will work that way. On the contrary, it must be preventive that we, as a country, should clarify our identity. It will be a strong signal to send out into the world, because the signal we are sending now is that in Norway you can stay and stay on false identity years after year without the authorities caring. Does the Council see that it is actually a signal that can now remain standing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1683	What I think is problematic, is that people who have provided the wrong identity, in this way, will be able to get amnesty. I think that is problematic in view of the fact that many of those who come to Norway have an identity that has not been clarified. You can imagine that some of the people who come have not stated the correct identity either, and that it is made almost a scenario that if you give the wrong identity, and you stay here long enough, you will eventually have citizenship in Norway. That's what I think is problematic about these signals. But of course we're going to follow up this proposal in line with what the Storting decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1688	The Council of State continues to use the term ‘amnesty’ for an identity clearance programme for people who have permanent residence in Norway. I believe that is a very wrong use of words, because it is not a type of amnesty, it is a clarification program to determine which identity is correct. Then my question to the Council of State is very simple: Does the Council of State think that it is an advantage or a disadvantage for Norway that the most people who are here and have permanent residence are registered with the correct identity?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1696	Of course, I believe that, and that is why the government has also made more proposals for mitigation measures to help us get a better registration of identity, and that we can keep information for a longer time than we can do today. But I think that when you give the wrong identity and you say in a way that we're going to add it to it, we're going to take note of the new identity and then you're going to get citizenship, then we're going to premium people who have given false information to Norwegian authorities. I think that is wrong. But as I said many times, we'll follow up on this in line with what the Greatness has decided, and then we'll come back to how to solve this. Although I believe that there are many things that should have been prioritised – and the representative also often uses criticism that the procedure is too late – these are things that could go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1703	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1708	I would like to say that it is very good that we have changed the legislation and tightened up the requirements for identity in relation to humanitarian stay. That means we won't be in a similar situation again. It's very good that you work for better registration in the reception phase, but it doesn't solve the situation for these people who have been here for 16 years. That's what we're after. And I agree with the representative Tskedal who pointed out in the reply that it also sends a signal that we allow people to live with unsolved identity for years without the authorities doing anything. So the representative, Kapur, asks, what happens in 15 years if we end up in the same situation with today's cases? I just want to encourage the members of the committee to be up-to-date on what is the current law, and to have you stay on a humanitarian basis, as this group got, there are now stricter requirements for identity. I agree with Mr Kapur that there are some paradoxes in this debate. The paradox is that also the government parties, and former government councils in letters to the committee, have repeatedly stressed that it would be nice to clarify the identity of these people, but they have no action to get there. The right-hand side says that identity is important, but is not willing to do anything to give these people a clear identity. And now the right-hand side has been challenged in this matter. State councils are challenged repeatedly in the line change: what is the option? - and we're not getting any answers to that. Then it's nice to play with a lot of rhetoric, but in this room you have to make an alternative if you think our proposals are bad, because the alternative is that these people still live with an unexplained identity, can apply for passports and travel documents, without any guarantee that they are registered to the right person. So I just want to say that there are a lot of paradoxes here today, but the greatest paradoxes are the right side that stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1717	What made me take the floor was the line change between the representative Tuskedal and the council, whom I was a little surprised when they pointed to signals. It's true, as the representative Tskedal says: it actually gives some signals when you don't want to get involved and clarify your identity. I have to say that I was a little surprised by the Council of State's response to the representative Tuskedal, and I would like to have thought a little bit more of an explanation of the fact that it gives a bad signal to clarify the identity. It's very surprising to me, because the paradox in this is that we then say that it's okay to live in Norway with an unexplained identity. I think it must actually be an advantage that we clarify the identity. What the representative Tuskedal asked the Council of States had I wanted to get a longer answer to in this debate. That it's called a paradox that the majority in this room actually wants to clarify the identity, I think it's a little unmeasurable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1738	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1745	In this case, there is a position from the Municipal and Administrative Committee to a proposal from the representatives of the local authorities Audun Lysbakken and Karin Andersen for a new system for the settlement of refugees. Four proposals were made by the representatives and the Committee gave its opinion. I expect the representative, Karin Andersen, to present his proposals. The municipalities live more than ever. While party leader Siv Jensen last autumn called on the municipalities to refuse to accept refugees, the party colleague, then Minister of Housing Solveig Horne, last year's record in the number of residents. Last week we heard about municipalities waiting for ready-to-residence refugees. The mountains have provided shelters, but must wait for the assignment of refugees. The crutch in settlement today is not the municipalities, but the UDI's prioritisation of rejection cases has resulted in the settlement of those who are allowed to stay has stopped. It is critical for the settlement and for integration. Good integration requires early integration processes in the municipalities. It is therefore important to give greater priority to the treatment of clear cases of approval, preferably through the use of so-called rapid tracks, for which the Left has been consulted on several occasions. Having said that, the Left also believes it is important that all municipalities contribute to the settlement work. Today we see that there are some municipalities that take more responsibility than others. Dwelling is based on requests from the IMFI, and the Directorate uses a distribution key as the basis for its request decisions. In preparing it, great emphasis has been placed on past ability and willingness to settle. Therefore, municipalities that have previously received many are still requested to receive more, while municipalities that have received very few or none are not requested to receive the corresponding number. We have therefore called for a review of the distribution keys with a view to getting a fairer distribution and believe it is the right way to go. Furthermore, as part of the integration agreement, we have secured a majority for a review of the incentive scheme and the establishment of a new settlement agreement between the government and the KS. We also believe that there is a basis for a more extensive use of self-settlement within the municipality's borders, as has been done in Bergen, for example. Furthermore, it is important to facilitate the establishment of a sufficient number of dwellings in municipalities, as it is said to be the biggest challenge in municipalities. Good frameworks for the Husbank and arrangements for municipalities are therefore crucial. It will be necessary to think new thoughts about how to use the House Bank in the future. It is therefore important and right to continue to invest in rental properties, which have increased from about 1000 in 2013 to 1700 in 2015. This will be necessary for more things than just integration, but also for municipalities in general. Together with rapid work and activity and good Norwegian training, this will be important for good integration in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1756	The challenge of resettlement of refugees must only be solved. I think they all, most of them can join. It's like this in Norway, with the system we have, that it's the municipalities that are the tool to get it into. We all live in a municipality, and so do our new countrymen. That is why the Workers' Party has also joined in to strengthen, among other things. the municipal economy and made proposals on it at the latest in the state budget treatment for 2016, which would also provide better opportunities for municipalities to perform this task in a good way. I am not going to read out the comments we have here in this position, but we refer to a number of proposals on strengthening housing and integration policy, which we, as I said, last promoted in connection with the draft state budget for 2016. We have also proposed more resources from our side for those who are working on integration on a more voluntary basis. Volunteering does a tremendous amount of good work to improve integration, and they are a unique and – we'll say – reasonable means out in Kommune-Norway, in the city that is built, in order to achieve better and faster integration. Housing shortages are a major challenge in many municipalities, and if housing is to be solved, municipalities need to have opportunities not only to clean up old housing units, but also to be able to build new dwellings. Then the House Bank is very central, and therefore there must be actual loan options for the municipalities. In many places it is a challenge that there are too few dwellings, and in many municipalities there may be enough homes, but they are very far from the center of poor collective services and are not really a real alternative. It is therefore necessary to build some more centrally located dwellings, so that those who are going to live there, and who are initially lacking their own car and driving licence, have the opportunity to move around in a reasonable way. I refer you to proposal No. 1 which is in the setting, as the Working Party together with the Centre Party and SV is behind, where it says: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the allocations to the House Bank in order to provide sufficient loan and grant frameworks for the necessary increase in the number of reasonable dwellings.’ This is essential, we should be able to solve the challenge. Virtually everyone who represents in this hall is well aware that it is not just deciding to build a dwelling today, and then it is finished tomorrow. It takes some time for the municipalities to clear up the plots and even the systems around them, but then you also have to be sure that you have a safe framework, that there is money in the House Bank, so that you can do a good job from the municipalities. That the Storting and the Government take their clear responsibility for housing and integration and that it will succeed is absolutely necessary. Then we just assume that the government is following up the reconciliations of integration in a serious and wise way, and that we are now over the phase in which the municipalities are encouraged by government members not to settle refugees who have been given residence in the country. Such attitudes do not lead us forward in the integration and settlement challenges we face, and I also assume that the Minister for Integration promotes the positive angles of the settlement and integration discussions that are now ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1778	Then the President understands it so that the representative Lauvås has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1781	At some point we see that especially red-green politicians get so hot in the sweat of sitting here in Oslogryta and in Stortinget, that they think that from now on we're just in here who know how to solve things out there in Municipality-Norway. This proposal is a very good example of that. So here SV means that you have to force the municipalities to settle x the number of refugees. How many it should be, obviously Karin Andersen or state bureaucrats must decide. There should be no dialogue between the state and the municipality – the dialogue that this government has provided for after it took over a large aftermath from the red-green era, as it was never about introducing the type of coercion that SV now wants. SV is probably going to say that they suggested it, but the center part put the foot down, and then we're going to see a view here where they're going to owe each other. But I also remember at the time that if something really meant a lot to SV, there were demonstrations both right outside of Stortinget and elsewhere. So we know that if they really want to, they often have the right thing to do – but not in the eight years they put themselves in government. Let me establish one thing about housing: housing is not just about housing. There is a big misunderstanding in the debate sometimes that housing is only about counting the number of dwellings. It's completely wrong. Housing is also about schools, kindergartens, health services, well-being services in general and how sport and volunteering are to be included in the long-term process of moving into a municipality and going out into the labour market. Therefore, business is an important factor. It'll be a very simplification of the debate when we think that only we can force the municipalities to settle, then the municipalities will get enough housing, and then you're done with that discussion. Then it's no wonder that integration stood as still as it did in the eight red-green years. Then it's not so strange that only four out of ten went to work or education after finishing the introduction course, although there's another topic today. We have made a change of pace because we have been in dialogue with the municipalities, we have listened to the municipalities, and we are now trying to get to a housing model where we take this dialogue further. I agree with SV that the settlement must take place in a new way. We have to get flexible solutions, and we have to get on with this. But jumping from there to coercion is an error trail, because there are many alternatives. They are listed in the agreement of a large majority in the Storting, but we in the Right have also addressed many of the things that lie in the agreement. For example, we should look at long-term agreements instead of a negotiation that may only take place every 12 months, because it also characterises the long-term nature of integration into the municipality. We have to look at the role of County State – look at Hordaland. Early language training in reception, early vocational language training, practical arrangements, etc. will make many of the people to be settled more attractive to municipalities to receive. We need to look at financial incentives for municipalities that want to take great action, at greater use of agreed self-settlement and at public–private cooperation in order to provide and build more housing, so that it is not just a municipal task. We can simplify the law so it makes it easier to build new, small units, so it's easier to rent out homes, so you can do something about the rental requirements. We've also looked at that already. Here I have listed a number of measures. It's about solutions, and none of them are about coercion. I wish that SV could sometimes be involved in the kind of debates where you look at how you can solve the problems in a more constructive way than saying: now we give up, we politicians don't do this anymore, so we take the only solution that SV often has left: we override, and we do that here from Oslo, because here in Oslo we know much better how to settle than the municipalities themselves. In conclusion, I just want to say that we are doing well with the housing work. It's been the pressure of time on the system, and we've delivered it. But I don't think coercion is the way to go, because then the debate is about whether you're in favour or against, instead of about how we're going to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1798	The Christian People's Party is pleased with all the parties and good forces that are now involved in finding and proposing solutions to today's demanding asylum and settlement challenge. The SV shall be commended for making proposals that we others have to decide on. In terms of housing and integration in our communities, in the municipalities, good arrangements are urgently needed to achieve a desired and targeted outcome. We want refugees and asylum seekers with a need for protection to get on with life quickly in order to contribute to society. It is more demanding that SV do not participate in processes or settle where the same theme is discussed in order to achieve as broad a settlement as possible. The Christian People's Party has always fought for a better system for the settlement of refugees through cooperation in order to be able to influence the bulk of the population based on our values of justice, human dignity and faster procedure. Therefore, in these matters we choose to engage in dialogue and try to achieve a broad settlement in Stortinget. In this way, we believe that the Christian People's Party has had important breakthroughs, not least in the best interests of the children. The Christian People's Party is aware that the municipalities want to cover their costs for a good integration and settlement policy, but we believe that the proposal for a new settlement scheme that requires state full funding is demanding. What should be included in the calculation? What rate should be used, since the municipalities operate so differently? Should it be an incentive for good solutions, etc.? With regard to the proposal to establish a system in which the individual who has been legally resident can obtain residence without the right to an introduction programme falling away, we find it interesting. This is of course something we'll look into when the government comes up with its integration message. The Christian People's Party is waiting impatiently and inquired when the message comes. So far, the government has focused on transportation and the necessary tightening, and we understand that. However, it may have happened without prioritizing on the positive resources actually represented by asylum seekers with a reason for protection. It is now approaching a situation in which municipalities are given free capacity if the procedural bases are not given different priority. I have to say the same about proposals to increase the allocations to the House Bank, so that municipalities can have the necessary room to increase the number of reasonable rentals. Here SV points to an important point – that an increasing number of refugees and asylum seekers come to Norway – and that the need for a new settlement system that works better and faster and that promotes integration is very important. It may be necessary to consider new economic incentives to stimulate increased housing. The Christian People's Party also believes it is important that all municipalities contribute to the settlement work, and that there is a need to review the key to allocation that provides the basis for IMFI requests, in order to ensure an appropriate distribution between municipalities. I am presenting the Christian People's Party's views on this matter by referring to the treatment of the Stortingen on 12 January 2016, when the integration agreement was concluded between the six parties in Stortinget, the so-called broad agreement. That's where the government asks the government to: ‘1. Evaluate incentive schemes with a view to helping municipalities meet long-term objectives for housing and integration. The contract-based Norwegian housing model shall be maintained, but County shall be given a special responsibility to follow up and to be a driving force towards municipalities. At the beginning of 2016, a new government-KS settlement agreement shall be drawn up. This agreement must ensure that the settlements are in line with the need. The distribution key that provides the basis for IMDI requests has to be reviewed. In the context of the notified integration message, the government shall review the situation of refugees with special needs in order to ensure their settlement.’;» This is important for the Christian People's Party, because these often have few who fight for themselves. The Government is also asked to: ‘2. Evaluate the financial incentives for municipalities with a view to a more systematic use of self-settlement within the municipal housing decisions.’» We also hope that it will be evaluated. ‘to increase the framework of the House Bank and to simplify the application procedures so that the municipality can build more dwellings. [[...]] The House Bank plays an important role in ensuring the settlement of people who have been granted residence in Norway.’ We also look forward to the more active use of the private rental market and the simplification of rental housing legislation in order to increase the supply of serious operators. We expect this to be followed up by the Minister in the integration message. In these matters, the Christian People's Party will participate constructively in view of human dignity, children and families in the challenging situation we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1839	From time to time, the impression is that the lack of municipal will to settle refugees is the greatest bend of integration policy. It's a completely wrong image, which it's important to correct. IMDi reports on record housing in 2015. The municipalities settled 11 342 refugees, and the number of people ready to settle in asylum recipients has been reduced. Compared to the population, Finnmark lived most and Oslo few. For 2016, the IMFI has requested the settlement of 18 500. The municipalities have so far undertaken to settle over 15 400. Studies by the NRK in 103 municipalities show that they are willing to accept approx. 93 pst. the number of requests made. The IMFI says that these figures correspond well with their experiences, and commends the municipalities for their efforts. SV wants a compulsory residence scheme for refugees. In the Centre Party, it is important that the contractual settlement system be continued. It is the scheme that has doubled the settlement of refugees by municipalities in a few years. It shows that it works well. I fully agree with Kapur, who says we should not override the municipalities of Oslo. It is important that we do not force the municipalities. It's the municipalities that know best what they can do. I hope Kapur's flaming speeches that we will not overrule the municipalities from this room will be repeated when we discuss the municipal reform in the next round. The central party agrees with the proposers that today's settlement system can be improved. It is primarily the fact that the State does not cover the costs incurred in the municipalities, as well as the lack of resources to cover the main problems of the municipalities, namely the lack of housing for the refugees. The Centre Party has taken the initiative to put in place measures to facilitate the settlement of municipalities and to strengthen the integration work both in the asylum recipients and after residence in the municipalities. In our 2016 alternative budget, we promoted proposals that would add a total of 1.9 billion. kr for these measures, inter alia: for full funding of housing, for increased reimbursement of child protection measures for single minor asylum seekers, for better language training in reception – unfortunately, the government has reduced that pot – to a qualification programme for making refugees more rapidly out of work, and not least in support of voluntary organisations that do a very important job in integration work. Lone minors represent an increasing proportion of asylum seekers coming to Norway. Since the weakening of the state funding of municipal child protection measures for this group, municipalities have been struggling to accept them as necessary. The municipalities refuse, and I find it difficult to reproach the municipalities for that. At Stortinget, we have repeatedly called for a strengthening of the funding base for the reception of lone minors. The responsible State Council has indicated the need to review the cuts in the financial instrument. Unfortunately, the municipal equity ratio was increased in the 2016 budget. Norwegian municipalities have recently been grouped for county councils in the association KS. There, an opinion was adopted in which it is useful to intervene. Some of the assessments made by the county council in KS are important in the case we are dealing with here today. The KS also wants a change in the housing model, but they will not go away from contractual settlement, as proposed in the proposal for a representative. Municipalities want a more long-term and predictable planning of their settlements, so that a local community can better facilitate their planning in advance and have greater predictability. 70 pst. of the municipalities say that lack of housing is a challenge for housing. Therefore, the funds of the House Bank must be strengthened. We fully agree with that, and the Central Party therefore supports the proposal to increase the allocation to the House Bank so that there are sufficient loan and grant frameworks to increase the number of reasonable dwellings. I believe that the House Bank's arrangements must be set up so that they can upgrade the existing housing stock. KS emphasises in its opinion that cultural life should become a more active part of the integration work of municipalities. They believe that cooperation with volunteers in this work should be stimulated even more. The majority of the population have concluded an integration agreement with proposals submitted to the government for follow-up. It is important that we get back the government's proposals for follow-up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1869	I would like to first mention the suggestions from SV in the setting. I do because there's a need to think about resettlement. There is nothing that is free in being allowed to stay in a country when you are not allowed to live anywhere. It is a paradox that the municipalities in Norway have been vetoed. This has made the situation difficult and hampered integration. I fully agree with what the government writes in its budget. It says: ‘The faster a refugee becomes established in a municipality, the faster he can participate and contribute to his/her skills and resources in working life and community.’ It is the whole purpose of the proposal – it is to get started, to live and to contribute to society and to get your life started as soon as possible. There's a need to think about something new. There is also a need to have a better arrangement for sea-going housing, and I note that the majority acknowledge that SV has been right in these proposals, and goes quite far off in the agreement that they have entered into. The difference between the SV's proposal and the agreement that has been reached is that with the SV's proposal, we ensure that everyone who is legally resident in Norway and is allowed to reside actually receives a municipality of residence, and we guarantee that the municipalities will have their expenses covered for the settlement. That's the difference. Otherwise, I also read from the text that the assumption is that you should settle everyone, and you have to find some solutions to that. The settlement of refugees is neither good nor good; it is a running task. It is important that the municipalities that do this do this, do it continuously and regularly, because then you build up competence. In this context, it is also important that more municipalities now have the opportunity to operate the asylum recipients we are going to have, because then it can be combined early on with the integration that is being done when it comes to housing people. It is absolutely right that the municipalities have now really put themselves in the harness to say yes to the settlement of many. There were people here who called it a change of pace, and that's right. But I have had some interest in how this change of pace has taken place, so I have now gone through 37 municipalities and seen how the decisions have been made there. There is a clear system of decisions. If SV had been given a decision, we would have had more residents. If the Progress Party had been decided, it would have been significantly fewer, for in 22 of these 37 municipalities, the Progress Party has either voted against all or a substantial part of the settlements: Kristiansund 77 fewer, Fredrikstad 180 fewer, Levanger 71 fewer, Hamar 105 fewer, Porsgrund 110 fewer, Tromsø 70 fewer, Stavanger 70 fewer, Eigersund 45 fewer, Skedsmo 130 fewer – and I could list more. That means that if the Progress Party had been able to decide locally, the number that could now be settled would have been significantly fewer, and there would have been a problem. That's what many people now say is so great, that you have to sit locally and discuss: are you going to be allowed to live in this municipality, or aren't you going to? There's going to be a very good mood for it, I see, when you vote against it, no, there shouldn't be anyone here. It's very nice when there's a majority who of course votes for someone. But one knows well that there's someone sitting there who didn't want them to be there. There is no good way to welcome those who have been legally detained by the government and are going to be here. So there is a need for arrangements that make the discussions in the local government about good integration and how to get it done, and not about and if you're going to live or not. This debate has – to say the least – some beauty spots that I think some could have saved. There is a need in 2016 to settle 18 526 – these are the last figures I have been given, there may have been a few more in the last days – and there have been settlement decisions of 15 411. So there's 3 115 left, and there's a lot of housing. So there would have been a need to put in place a system that also ensured this. So finally, it's not just housing that's important, but housing is very important. 70 pst. of the municipalities that it is of the most important thing. It is therefore quite surprising that the majority today are not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1898	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1901	In 2015, Norwegian municipalities settled over 11 000. So far this year, the municipalities have agreed to settle for more than 15 000 this year. Never before have there been as many residents as in the last few years. The new government has put a new gear in that way. In the last two years, the government has also increased the integration grant by 300 million. kr, which gives a coverage of about 90 pst. In order to stimulate increased housing, the government has also introduced an additional grant, DKK 50 000 per person, to the municipalities that accept more than the IMDi has requested, a separate additional grant per single minor resident, DKK 100 000, and the additional grant for the settlement of refugees with major health challenges has increased. The House Bank has increased its grant framework for rental dwellings. So it's done a lot. However, although subsidies have increased and municipalities are positive for housing, the waiting time in reception may be longer, as a result of the large number of asylum seekers. It will therefore be important for reception measures that contribute to rapid and good integration when housing takes place. More use of the applicant’s own resources, more qualification, more cooperation with the voluntary sector and business as well as more guidance and information are key. The main priority of the IMFI shall also be to settle in 2016. I agree with the proposers that ready-to-residence refugees can find housing themselves, but this must be done within the framework of each municipality. The principle of free will in the settlement work still has to be established if we are to play with the municipalities. A new settlement agreement between the country and the KS is under preparation. Lone minors and families with children shall be given priority in the settlement work. For those who have lived for a long time in reception, it may be relevant to live in the neighbourhood, where the municipalities accept it. I will come back to Stortinget with a notice on integration policy during the spring. The field of residence will be described in detail. The notification will respond to the request decision of the Stortingen. 438 for 2015–2016, where the government inter alia: has been asked to consider ‘incentive schemes to help municipalities achieve long-term objectives for housing and integration’. I have recently travelled around several Norwegian municipalities that have succeeded in integrating them. I fully agree with those who say that housing and houses are not enough to succeed in the integration work. Both Steinkjer and Stjørdal are good examples of municipalities that have succeeded. They've got over 80 pst. in job or education after completion of the introduction programme. Another municipality I've visited, which has very good results, is Ålesund. It's a nice city in a nice part of the country, and they have as a result that over 90 pst. of those who have completed the introduction system have come to work or education. What characterizes these municipalities is that they have tailors' eyes for those who get there. They're following them in an insanely good way and they're really on to facilitate their integration. They also make clear requirements for those concerned to reduce the self-employment needed to succeed. I'm still going to travel around and get good ideas, because I think it's important in the integration message to show those who succeed, but also to find the recipe for success on what the successful municipalities actually do, and to transfer it to other municipalities. The integration message is waiting for many. One must lubricate with a little bit more patience. Two months ahead, approx., it will arrive – in May. I look forward to having a good discussion also about integration, because it is important to succeed in integration if we are to do both to maintain our welfare model and to help those who come here to make optimal use of their resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1928	We now hear from the government team and the minister that the municipalities live as never before. The government has got a new gear, but the Progress Party locally is against it, so it's a different majority than the Progress Party is a part of it, which makes sure that the municipalities now actually settle at a greater rate than before. What does the Council of State think is the most important element for municipalities to ensure that the necessary and desired – to the extent – settlement of refugees is achieved and that the Progress Party, such as the in Fredrikstad, will you vote to settle?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1935	So it's the local politicians who are best able to assess how many people have the capacity to live in the individual municipalities, and that there's local political debate about it, I think it's in many municipalities. I think it should be local freedom. I also think it is healthy that you have that kind of debate, and then the majority in the municipalities decide how many people should eventually settle. One is about housing, and we know that in some municipalities it is a defect. The second is that these people should have a follow-up. I have visited several municipalities that stress that there is, of course, a connection between how many will be settled in the coming years and how well you can succeed in the integration process. That's why it means how many people are going to live. But I am very pleased that the municipalities are now taking a great responsibility to settle, and we will facilitate in the integration message that we need new approaches to succeed even better with integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1940	I recorded the answer, and that I did not fully appreciate what was going on so that the council's own party traps could also support the settlement locally. But she was in the living room. There are several people who have been involved, and that is one of the most significant things – there is not a lot of disagreement about it. Then I could imagine asking the Council of State: can the municipalities now expect that the House Bank will not run out of money, so that the municipalities that now need it can borrow the necessary funds to build and also to operate the rehabilitation of the housing stock that is necessary, so that they can settle the number of refugees that is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1947	As for the House Bank, it's under the municipal minister, so I don't have an overview here and now of how much of the funds have been made available, which has now been requested. But it is clear that fresh money came into the 2016 budget, so that the framework is increased, and then you have the opportunity to expand more dwellings than you could last year. This is something that we need to evaluate on a continuous basis. That's what the government is going to do, because we're dependent on succeeding in the settlement work, and we've really done that in the last few years. We have lived on record many times, and we are also going to make sure that the follow-up of these is good. Therefore, the integration message is very important. I'm really happy that we're going to discuss it during the spring, and I hope that there will be a new grip on how we can succeed in just that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1954	The Council of State said in its statement that housing is not the only thing that is important in integration work, and it is difficult to disagree with. But housing is a prerequisite for municipalities to say yes to settle, and 70 pst. by municipalities, the lack of housing is the main challenge in resettlement. The framework and guidelines of the House Bank on loans and grants are essential to improve the housing situation of all disadvantaged people on the housing market, including refugees. It is not true that the state budget for 2016 increased the Husbanken framework, but, on the contrary, it was reduced. The centre party proposed an 18-billion-billion-dollar framework increase. kr to 25 br. kr. The House Bank is the area of the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, but it is nevertheless essential for the local authorities to ensure that they have access to housing for refugees. Will the Council of State contribute to concrete measures to increase support for housing measures for refugees, and what kind of action will the Council of State consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1966	As far as the House Bank is concerned, the grants for rental dwellings were increased in the budget for this year, and it is precisely because many municipalities now see that they have to, in addition to having a municipal offer, also to rent homes on the private market. You have a need to build more, and there are a lot of people who want to do it. Then there are many things that have come into this discussion after that, for example. requirements for the housing and that you can look at it, so that you have dwellings that you can use for a short period of time, and if you can lower something on the requirements and standards in order to reduce costs. Clearly, there are proposals that we want to look at and come back to. In the area of integration, measures have been spread across a wide range of departments. That's why it's my job to gather these threads and make sure that we have a control over what many departments are doing. Therefore, the Communication of Integration will contain actions from many different departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1973	It's important that those who are going to be here in the country are settled very quickly. Living at reception is a completely unnatural situation. Many have experienced very traumatic things in advance, so they have a great need to get started in a community very early, also to see what is expected of them, and not to be institutionalized, which you often become if you are on reception for a long time. Therefore, there is a need to move quickly. In my post I mentioned all the municipalities where the Progress Party has voted against settlement, many times everyone, sometimes half, etc. Now, in the change of line with the Workers' Party, the Council of State says that she is pleased with the decisions to settle in the municipalities. What, then, does the Council of State say to its party traps that vote against the decisions the Council of State is pleased to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1978	I think there should be room for different opinions in this discussion. I'm going to respect that there are different opinions out there about how many people think you're able to live and follow up in a good way. I believe that there are local politicians from different parties who are going to be involved in the decision-making process. What's my job in the future is to make sure that we, among other things. go through the grips that we have, the means that we have to succeed in integrating. It is also important for municipalities to continue to live and follow-up through integration measures. It is not possible to stick under the chair that several of the municipalities I have visited are concerned, among other things. for social assistance expenditure. You're worried that it takes many years to integrate a lot of people, that it's challenging to manage to have a pace and follow up on these over a long period of time. There is no doubt that there are challenges related to integration and housing, and therefore the Communication of Integration becomes important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1983	The reason why SV is promoting this proposal is that people should not be sitting around for years on end waiting for us to get started earlier. Its faster one becomes a resident, the better it is with integration, the government writes seas in its budget. However, when it comes to the measures, Norwegian training has been cut, the grant to municipalities for the settlement of lone minors has been cut, and you will not agree to put in place a scheme to speed up the settlement process. I understand that the municipalities are concerned about several of their expenses. Therefore, SV's proposal is that municipalities should receive full expenditure coverage for this. But our point is that more people are going to manage themselves if they don't sit in such an unnatural situation for a long time, stare in the wall and learn to accept social security, for that's what happens. Therefore, SV's proposals are fully active in order to speed up integration and improve it. Can the Council of State see that there is at least the intention behind the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1989	I understand that we want to settle as quickly as possible, but what takes time now is, of course, the application process, because UDI received three times as many applications last year as it has received in the past. I don't think coercion helps inspire communities to make a great effort to integrate. On the contrary, I believe that volunteering and the fact that the municipality can decide this through democratic processes contribute to a much greater willingness to contribute. After all, the previous government had a proposal for this at the hearing in 2011. It had two years to promote it, but it was never done, and that means that the previous government also found out that it was a bad suggestion with coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1994	No, that's what you're doing right now, that people stay here for years at reception, which is coerced. The municipalities have a lot of assigned tasks, running tasks that they have to do, without using these types of concepts. It is quite right that the proposal that SV is promoting here is the proposal that was being consulted, because we thought it was necessary at the time. It's also pointed out to the state council many times that there were too many people in reception. When the Progress Party voted against locally, that was one of the reasons why there was no solution. But when the Council of State is so concerned with volunteering, but at the same time is involved in providing budgets where it is cut, among other things. in the expenditure coverage of municipalities to settle single minor asylum seekers, there is no connection in what is said. The municipalities will probably live even better if they know that they get full cost coverage for the people they live in, and that they have more opportunities to pay for housing, because housing is also needed for more disadvantaged people than just for the refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e1999	What is the difference between then and now is that this government has speeded up the settlement and really made Norwegian municipalities live in record times. We took over full asylum and have done a very good job after that. Then we had a big inflow last year that of course puts us to the test. As for the fact that we've cut, I just want to say that there was a redeployment on this year's budget where we had to find $9.5 billion. to cover the increased expenditure actually incurred by asylum inflows into Norway. So to say that we cut the budget – everything is relative. It is also the case that in the case of single minors, which is a challenge to settle, we have put on the table 100 000 kroner in extra subsidies to municipalities, precisely because we see that it is important to have them settled quickly and that the municipalities report that this is an economic challenge. That's why we've stimulated it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2004	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2009	I think this debate is a bit comical when one hears that the government boasts of the increased housing figures, when I have just shown with very clear figures that the Progress Party locally votes against this. However, if SV's proposals in the local government had been adopted, the State Council had solved its problem. But she still insists that you should be able to veto locally, and it seems perfectly right that the Progress Party is sabotaging the job that the government is now saying they need to do. It's a little strange to hear you boast about the honour of the job that others do locally, because that's what the Council of State does, and also other government representatives do. The reason why we presented this when we were in government, and sent it to the hearing, was that we saw that there was a need to put in place such schemes, and that it also provided for – 100 pst. – co-finance what the municipalities needed. I also record that the Council of State is trying to minimize cuts in grants for housing of lone minor asylum seekers. Then I just want to say that one of the things that the municipal sector has been most critical of have happened. Some of the most critical are these kids, and the kids, who really need to be settled quickly. If someone hurts to live as unnaturally as it is to live on an asylum reception, it's these kids. Seeing to have to cut there is, to say it nicely, little imaginative. I can remind the Council of State that there were a couple of other posts in which quite a few billion were allocated to people who are doing well here in the world and are on the dry side. So I guess there were a couple of other places you could have chosen to take the money if it was a money cut. Also, cutting language training — when you know that it is absolutely essential to start language training as early as possible — shows that talking about good integration is really something you say, not something you do. If it had been the most important thing, the government and the Council of State would have given priority to presenting more proposals for good integration quickly, so that we had started integrating all of those who are now in reception, and very many of them are going to be. We know that, because they're refugees of war. Finally, there is also a need to increase the processing capacity, so that we can quickly deal with matters that we know are likely to be, and in retrospect there is a need for them to settle quickly, for these are people who can contribute to society. What we're doing now is blocking it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2022	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2036	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2043	First of all, as the rapporteur-general, I would like to present the Committee's position and thank you for your very positive cooperation in the Committee. I would also like to thank the government for coming forward with this message, which is a good estimate to discuss a very important development opportunity for Norwegian soil and forest, namely many of the additional industries that we see today are practiced very well in Norwegian agriculture and forestry, but which also contribute in many ways to strengthening these food routes. It is good that the Storting actually gathers around at least the points of view of this type of industry and how important these are. I perceive that virtually all the parties believe that a diverse and durable agriculture and forestry has more legs to stand on, and that the alternative forms of nutrition that are especially brought forward in the message are a strength for all of us, whether it be for brewing, transport, energy development, into tunet activity, the production of local food or hunting and fishing. In this way, it gives us many benefits, but it also, in the opinion of the undersigned, contributes to increasing the legitimacy and understanding of agriculture and society's instruments of agriculture. As you can see, this is a very important message. The operational reviews carried out by the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research (Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research) have included: 888 uses, shows that over 80 pst. of these uses are used by additional industries. It gives a very good and clear signal of how large it is, and how important it is, not least in order to maintain a varied usage structure, which we need to be able to cultivate as much soil as possible. In this way I am pleased when the government writes on page 5, first column, in the message: ‘Human resources and creativity are crucial. A small property can be the starting point for a business idea as good as a larger property. Therefore, the policy shall facilitate growth and development irrespective of the size of the garden.’» I believe that this is a good formulation, and there are many of us here that distinguish something layer from government's policy in general – first of all because if you want to be able to grow these kinds of industries, small and large, yes, it is perhaps the small uses that contribute the most, because they are most dependent on it, but they don't have to put all the resources, all the investments, in one pot. In this way, in my view, focusing on measures and instruments at the bottom that help both small and large to live, and not as we have seen in the last agricultural policy, will provide the best basis for this kind of complementary industry. For us from the Workers' Party, it stands as a paradox. Moreover, it is important to be able to maintain agriculture throughout the country – which is agreed in this room that we should – to ensure that there is sustainability also for those who have to operate outside and who operate in the periphery of what will be profitable. There will be important additional industries of this kind, but it will also be essential to be able to maintain a policy that contributes to support that helps to close the revenue gap even where there are more vague conditions, that you actually contribute more than what I must say the message opens up, and that you are more specific about the measures to be put into action, whether it is In on the tune, transport or energy. We see that on several of these points a majority in the Committee, all except the Right Party and the Progress Party, have agreed that it should be possible to be more concrete and forward-looking in terms of measures for these types of ancillary industries. I am pleased that a majority of the committee gathered on a government strategy to look at the domestic production of fish, and also on what a majority says about energy development in agriculture. I would like to take up with this the proposals that the Workers' Party has been promoting with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2063	The representative Knut Storberget then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2066	Human resources and creativity are essential to strengthen and further develop the farm’s overall resource base. A small property can be as good a business idea as a big property. Policies must facilitate growth and development irrespective of the size of property. The government has launched several processes to strengthen the framework conditions for Norwegian business. The ‘Competitiveness for Norwegian workplaces’ and ‘Knowledge provides opportunities for all’ are good examples of this. The review and simplification of the instrument will also contribute in this context. Farms are mainly small farms spread throughout the country. They are of great regional importance for value creation and employment, not least as proud producers, whether traditional agriculture or smaller local niche producers. Enterprises must be able to make the most of the total resource base without unnecessary obstacles. This Communication shows that there is a high market potential and a good opportunity both to further develop existing agricultural industries and to develop new products and offers. I feel that the agricultural industry is taking up these opportunities and creating exciting and forward-looking jobs for both small and large uses. The government wants to stimulate business start-ups, growth and innovative business environments in agriculture by supporting research and development, strengthening the focus on recruitment and facilitating the development of skills across the whole value chain. The notification also contains measures to facilitate market access for locally produced products. The agricultural industry is important, primarily as a food producer, but also as a traveler, and not least for the welfare sector. This interaction is important to take care of and further develop. This Communication provides a good basis for optimistically looking forward to the future of agricultural industries, and it is gratifying that the Norwegian Bondelag, in its call for consultation, speaks positively of the notification: ‘It is positive that the government will further develop the investment in entrepreneurship and industrial development in agriculture, and the Communication provides a good description of trends, current instruments and growth potential in different productions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2086	I fully agree with the rapporteur's presentation of the matter itself, the importance of such a matter, and that such a matter has been raised. Developing Norwegian agriculture is important because, as I said earlier from this pulpit: Norwegian agriculture produces some of the most important things in this country, namely food. Then it's also an advantage that those who are responsible for this production can develop it, that they can spend time on the farm and spend time on what they're going to do, that's to take care of the farm, the farm and the animals that are the basis for producing this food. The message says a lot about how things are today, and also makes some suggestions and ideas about what might be better done. Let it be clear: there are hardly any nutritionists in this country who are as innovative as the Norwegian farmer has been over the last decades. Norwegian agriculture has evolved enormously, and Norwegian agricultural production has increased enormously thanks to the innovative founder of the Norwegian farmer. We must be incredibly happy about that. It is important, when looking at supplementary industries for Norwegian agriculture, that we provide a basis for these industries to start up. The Norwegian farmer is, as I said, a founder. He is a good founder of what is specific to agriculture, but perhaps not such a good founder in some other areas. So they also need some help, like that. is in the message. They need help with start-up, they need help with initial capital, and not least for knowledge and follow-up. We are the ones who are going to facilitate this. Much in agriculture and ancillary industries is based on local food and drink. Here's a lot we can do. I was back in Italy and Austria for a while, on a farm up in the Alps that was driven by an older vessel, and which he was going to transfer to his son. He drove cheese production and meat production and produced sausages. We were in the daisy of this older guy, and, to put it that way, it didn't look like either Tines or Q-Meierienen's premises. The standard was something different. So I couldn't stop and ask what this was like in relation to the EU and EU rules. He stood still for two seconds, and he looked at me and said, "EU?" The European Union, it is in Brussels. It is actually a little indicative of what we are like in Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian agricultural production. We are very eager to have rules, and we are very eager to implement rules that come from the EU, which may cause many to refuse to start production in Norway. As a founder in Gausdal said, if I had known how many gauges of paper I had to fill in to start this daisy, I would never have done that. I think that's a little bit descriptive. Doing something about the legislation, maybe being a little flexible about it, I think I'll make it a lot easier for many people who want to start by themselves – especially when it comes to food production. We see the same thing when the slaughterhouses have now become larger units. The smaller slaughterhouses around had challenges and stayed away. When it comes to doing it again with small farms bacteria, this has turned out to be very difficult. Now the mobile slaughterhouses have improved, but I think that we should be able to develop good Norwegian, local food, they must have the opportunity to slaughter on their farms and sell it on. Of course, there must be some rules on how this should be in order to ensure the quality of the product. But to say as this elderly farmer in the Alps said, the day I produce a cheese that doesn't keep a goal, has poor quality, or people get sick of, then I can put down my entire production. That's what I think Norwegian farmers actually think. They are engaged in producing a quality that allows them to sell on the market, which means that Norwegians, and foreign consumers, are interested in buying this, because this is a quality product that tastes good and that they like. Norwegian and foreign consumers are also very willing to pay. I'm glad we got the case. I am pleased that the government sees this as a great opportunity for Norwegian farmers, and I am pleased that the Stortinget is so gathered about the measures presented in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2103	Agriculture has been a carrier in Norwegian business as long as it has been resident in Norway. Despite low arable land, agriculture has been responsible for employment and food production and has provided the basis for settlement throughout the country. Developments in the industrial community and the later service society have reduced employment in agriculture, but not its significance. There are currently more persons employed in the primary industry than in the industry in Norway. About 45 000 farmers supply to the food industry, which employs about 40 000. In addition, all those who work in industries related to agriculture come. This tells us that there is an important industry we are talking about – and a great industry. Let's make it clear first as last time: the farm is a resource for Norway. With that said, we shouldn't settle down on it. This is a resource that still has the potential for further development. The potential is high in both innovation and business start-ups. The Christian People's Party believes that active industrial policy will be able to create more entrepreneurs and increase value creation based on agriculture. In the green shift, the bioeconomy will play a crucial role, and it is clear that the resources of agriculture and forestry will be central to this. The world's oldest production process, photosynthesis, will not be less important in the future – no, it will be the very core of the green economy. But it is important to remember that this development will not replace primary agricultural production, which is food. The potential lies in the fact that this escapes from a anchoring in basic agriculture. An agricultural policy which makes it increasingly important to raise additional incomes and which puts food production in second array will not contribute to a sustainable green shift. Innovation and entrepreneurship will spring out of a base of primary production, as the Christian People's Party sees it. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Stortinget has focused on the resources and potential of Norwegian agriculture through this big business message. This provides a good basis for an active agricultural and industrial policy, which strengthens the basis for growth based on one of our main industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2120	A farm isn't just land, land, pasture, forest and land, but it's a lot of work. It is a tradition, and it is a reality today both in terms of labour input and income. Farmers, on what is now called agricultural enterprises, are sea-going traders, who have shown a unique ability to convert. A farmer is one who does what pays most in his room of action. Driving a farm is constantly changing. There are roots and wings, it's root fixing and innovation, or as it says in the message that a French cheese producer, André Valadier, says: ‘Modernity without tradition is sterile, tradition without modernity is stupidity’. Priest, good! This is also what is at the heart of the Norwegian farmer: roots and wings, anchoring and innovation. The base is what grows on the areas. It's food and timber. The keyword is profitability, and it is a word that almost does not appear in the documents of the departments in the field of agricultural activity. Profitability — it is not possible to operate without profitability. So the base is the area, and the assumption that the young people take up the land is that it's profitable. A rate of education, a rate of time, and a rate of money. And then we have the supplement. The most common is rental, hunting and fishing and rental of buildings, but we want to move on. We want to move forward, and there are many fine words in this document: «Garden as a resource – the market as a target. Growth and founding of agricultural industries’. But there are two key words, more profitability, that I have now had. Facilitating predictable framework conditions for angry people is the core, and I would say for people of general competence. Those who have taken up the additional occupations are particularly skilled. Then there won't be so many. There must be common competent people who find profitability in it. Those who are particularly skilled must have great profitability. This is nothing new. State Council The eye started with this at the end of the 1980s. Now we're starting to see some small results of that. All along, there's been a lot of trouble about how important this is, but it's been very little designed for profitability for the general good. Politicians almost kick in the lynx and try to move on. There's nothing very messy about it, because it lacks profitability. That's a lot of good intentions, but it's a question of moving on. It says in a note from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘Too many agricultural enterprises that have been most successful in the market, they have been able to establish good and committed work networks.’ Yes, another fine word, 'work networks'. I don't know what that means, but it does mean that a co-operator. And that's essential, but in very much of what has to do with profitability, there's the question of having power in the market, so that one gets paid for its efforts in that value chain one's part of, that becomes fair. There are very many people who are concerned about what is created from the farm, about seafaring to create other activities where the profit is, but where the profit is not with the basic provider of the services. This is a message with little news. There's little money, yes, it's not money – they're in the annual budget proposals. And that's what it says: ‘The proposals for action in the message have not been expected to have a major administrative impact.’ So it's really kind of flat. What I want to use in the last few minutes is three questions: Why can't the Council of States make it easy for one just to report if a person wants to restore a lease or a building that has fallen, to set up a building that can house people? Why can the Council of State not facilitate the possibility of allowing the sale of unpasteurised cows' milk directly from the farmer, as it is in Switzerland, if the milk is heated to 70°C? Why is it not possible to accommodate the Tuna with predictable agreements with the public — having practical schoolrooms, older people’s experiences, summer holidays for children who need social protection, open reconciliation and housing and working communities for refugees? Practical policies are needed. I'm waiting in suspense at the Council of State, which is putting its script aside and responding to what I've now gone into.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2171	First, I would like to pay tribute and thank the President-in-Office for the job. The left wants to give agriculture new opportunities for development. Our agricultural policy is based on farming as a self-employed person, and the agricultural policy of the future must therefore be designed in such a way as to give each farmer greater room for action and greater freedom with economic security at the bottom. A forward-looking and environmentally friendly agricultural policy with good grant schemes combined with simplifications is the recipe of the Left. In view of this, the Left Government shares the view that a clearer policy towards those producing goods and services, other than traditional agriculture and forestry, is needed in agriculture. Research shows that there is market potential and good opportunities both for the further development of existing agricultural industries and for the development of new products and services. But the challenges and opportunities for value creation and business development are definitely different in different parts of the country, and I believe that it is an important perspective to bring with it when we discuss growth and start-ups in agriculture. Yeah, that's a very crucial perspective. Entrepreneurship and new businesses are important for change, innovation and transformation in the economy, and especially in those times, when we face a green transition in business. Market competence, access to risk capital, good advice and access to relevant networks are important for all those involved in business development. Founders often get good help at the beginning, but we should not forget that entrepreneurs need support and help even in the post-establishment phase. Therefore, the Left is committed to strengthening the SIVA programme for incubators, which is designed to help identify, further develop and commercialise good ideas for new growth businesses and provide growth in established establishments. Four of the incubators target the development of crop holdings in agricultural industries, with a total of 39 enterprises linked to these incubators in 2015. This is important. The left is therefore pleased that the government has expressed its desire to support agricultural start-ups and growing businesses through instruments such as the investment and business development scheme, the development programme and the incubator effort. Furthermore, it is important to focus on research-driven innovation in agricultural industries through different national instruments. I want to bring forward two agricultural industries that I experience to have a high growth potential, namely the production of local food and drink, where there needs to be more attention to organic products, and agricultural travel. Today, demand for local food is increasing, and production is increasing. It is clear that there is a significant untapped potential in complementary industries related to food and drink. The objective of increasing the turnover of local food and drink from EUR 3,5 billion. NOK 10 to SEK 10 billion. kr by 2025, is ambitious but not impossible. The whole value chain from land to table must work together to achieve this ambition. Distribution of local food products may be a bottleneck for local food producers. Cooperation and partnership between large and established food producers and small local food producers are important in this respect, as well as concepts such as the Bond's market and sales via hotels and restaurants. However, it is clear that the establishment of a daily food portal, which the government is required to set up by the Storting, will be an appropriate instrument that can really help to increase the distribution of local food. The prevalence of local beverages has increased sharply in recent years. The left is therefore very pleased that the government has, at the hearing, sent a proposal to amend the alcohol law, which proposes to open up sales of alcoholic beverages above 4.7 % vol. directly from smaller producers. The left considers that this needs to be followed by a change in the rules of the alcohol advertising regulation, so as to make it easier for the consumer to obtain factual information on the content of alcoholic beverages, the characteristics of the product, the production methods and, in particular, the place of origin. The measures pointed out by the government in the Single European Act are important for the development of an agri-tourism, but I do not think these are sufficient. It is therefore all the more important to put action in place in the strategy notified by the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2197	The main task for the farmer is to grow food for humans and animals, be it vegetables, roughage or protein products. The main task of the Storting must therefore be to facilitate conditions so that the farmer can use his primary time for this particular purpose, so that many more people than today can operate as farmers in our long-term country. Cultivating the soil and caring for the animals must be profitable in themselves. Only then will we facilitate growth and business start-ups in agricultural industries. The primary task of the big business is therefore to ensure that we have a farm settlement that allows people to live by being farmers, and that a policy is pursued from this hall that allows us to use the food soil throughout the country. Secondaryly, it is important to see the relationship between agriculture and the rest of society. The small property does not provide a good nutritional basis if society around us is confused and disappears to the big cities and if the government is to continue transferring the efforts of the small to the large. These are elements that will hit the legs under the small uses, and a development we'll be undoing. The basic existence of the peasant is the very foundation on which one must build the house – that is, this message. Without farmers, there will be no big business, no founding and no new farm industries. The dreamer of the Prime Minister, as we saw at the NRK this day, is probably not the one who's going to run the Biggest tasks mentioned in this message. So much seems to be clear. If we are to have farmers throughout the country, we must have good framework conditions for both large and small use. Having said all that, I must be allowed to pay tribute to all those who do and have done a great deal of work in food production in Norway, with locally produced craftsmanship products. Local food products are something the population wants more from. Further development of this economic pathway requires active policies with targeted actions. It is important that the distribution and sales stages are strengthened and that good commercial order solutions are put in place. Inland fisheries are highlighted as an area with high growth potential in the Communication. There may be grounds for looking at them more closely. This presents opportunities for domestic farming as an important and forward-looking economic pathway. SV believes that it is important to make a proper assessment of possible environmental impacts before embarking on inland farming as an active field of activity. Today's aquaculture industry is struggling with environmental challenges and has spent many years getting as it has now – even though it is still a good time to give it the green light in terms of the environment. This is the experience we have to take into account in the debate on domestic farming and make concrete assessments around it. With that, I would like to address SV's proposal, no. 6th@item: inlistbox For many years, the tune has been lifted as a forward-looking effort. The positive health effects associated with working with and being with animals and working with plants and soil are not at all controversial. Many stories have been told from work on drugs and psychiatry and with the elderly, where use of Inn on tunet services has produced positive results. The Communication brings forward several relevant target groups, which may also be important in terms of Inn's tunet activities, and it does not take into account what is perceived as the real challenge for many of the Inn's tunet suppliers: the local economy. It is often the municipality that should be the largest customer of these services. Unfortunately, the local economy is, in most places, so strenuous that such services become one of the least used, even if they should be different. Therefore, I had hoped that the government would come back to Stortinget with an Inn on tunet-action plan, and regret that the Storting does not choose to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2216	The representative Siv Elin Hansen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2220	I am glad that there is a strong connection to the big business message from the government in this area. Although the rhetoric of some of the posts today makes it sound like it's a significant distance, it's not really that. It's about the message taking into account what everyone says they're busy about, that's the lack that's always been in Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture has long traditions to offer a wide range of services and production that go beyond traditional agriculture. Even if this starts in basic agriculture, many of these ideas are about realizing the potential that lies in and around the garden. What started as an additional device ends up just for the individual as the main interface. It is good when a success is achieved, because it provides a basis for general agricultural production, it provides a basis for shortages, and it provides a basis for bustness throughout the country. So we don't know today where the growth and employment of these industries will come in the years to come. At least I don't know, because we're limited to the ideas that people dare to realize out there. The creativity and momentum I meet among many of these actors is significant. The aim of this big message is that the farmer should be able to run an industry based on the resources of the garden, and that we should increase these start-ups. Then it's not the size that matters. Therefore, I am pleased that the whole Stortinget notices that we say that a small agricultural property can be the starting point for a business idea as good as for a large one. It's the creativity of the individual, human resources, the creativity and the ability to determine to what extent we're happy. In the message, the government announces that it will look at a number of simplifications in general as well as some regulatory simplifications. The establishment of the local food database, revision of the guide to the planning and building laws, change regulations for Christmas tree production, roadside signage of many of these important actors and other changes are examples of concrete follow-up points, but it is not limited to this. I am very pleased that the Storting shares the ambition of the government to increase the local food turnover to 10 billion. kr before 2025. It's realistic, and it's quite possible to achieve. The reason why I think it's possible to achieve is that when I travel around the country, I meet more and more of these operators who are going their own way, who are running production we didn't believe was possible, who find a niche, who find paying consumers. From 2014 to 2015, the turnover of local food in the grocery trade increased by 10 pst. It also says something about the possibilities that lie ahead in time. When specific tools are requested from the government in this message, I think we can show you what we have done, for example. through the agricultural agreement we have concluded. One bite with close to 100 million. to the Development Programme for Agricultural and Reforestation-based Growth and Valuation. It's about hitting these industries – targeted bets to make it happen. Finally, I believe that the discussion about the profitability of agriculture and where this activity starts and ends is relevant. But these companies are making money. Those who are happy with this are making money. They hit the market. That's the headline of the Storing Message, and I think the Stortinget should actually also raise: the garden as a resource – the market as a target. The fact that the market is the goal, means that the producers who develop either local food and drink, bioenergy or other measures are market-righted at all times, and they are able to succeed in it, and that makes them feel good about money. At least we don't have to in our eagerness to actually get more people to bet on this make it a main discussion about poor pay. There is not too many of these producers. On the contrary, they tend to make money because they have good ideas, good executive skills and a great deal of action. They hit the market, they hit the consumers in their daily demand, and that makes them develop their garden resource for their own good, but also for the benefit of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2239	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2242	I am pleased that the Council of State declares that it is not the size it depends on. In this way, the announcement of cancellation is also very clear in the quotation I made in my post – and which several of the speakers have affected, in particular the representative Lundtägen – about profitability, and in particular what is stated in the government's message: ‘The policy shall, therefore, facilitate growth and development irrespective of the size of the garden.’» I think that's a good wording, you have to ensure profitability. If we are to have businesses and farmers who reach the market – as the Council of State wants – it is important that we have a basis, so that there is something to bet on. In this, several of us believe that it is important that, in particular, the small ones, who are today important and innovative players in order to reach a market with their products, actually survive. So my question is, does the opinion on ‘independent of the size of the yard’ mean a new line in how the support schemes are set up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2254	I record that the Workers' Party is once again trying to make this a question that the government is largely stimulating the biggest players. It is not correct. When the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV write in their comments that ‘in order to feed a continuing population in the world, agricultural production must be continuously increased’, one must take into account its consequences. If one is to produce more food, some hosts must necessarily be bigger, and the government has stimulated it, because it is necessary if we are to increase food production – for which the Labour Party says they are busy. But what this big message is all about is the lack of actors out there, which is not necessarily a good path of volume production, but which chooses the other way in agriculture, simply to look at how one can make the most of his own resources. I don't think it's room for that, but the government thinks it's room for that. It can be stimulated in many ways, but it starts and ends with the good idea of the individual practitioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2261	I'll come back to what I think of this, in an additional post. First of all, you have to produce more food, then you have to increase the volume, but we are also completely dependent on taking advantage of all the land, and there we are enough – according to the Workers' Party's opinion – depending on some other type of operational size than the government council often talks about. But in the notes we see that, among other things, in the case of Inn on tunet activity, which is of particular importance, a majority of the general government believes that it is too defensive – and also in the case of the issue of energy. I could imagine challenging the Council of State at both Inn on the tune and the energy bit of this, when a majority in Stortinget writes that, in their opinion, ‘the government must address this more clearly in future planning documents, including in the big message on agriculture and in the bioeconomy strategy’. Has the Council of State considered measures relating to the lifting of a particular bioeconomic strategy for the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2270	Yes, when the government has announced a bio-economic strategy and an agricultural message, we're going to take the width of it. Then I will do that job before I report it to Stortinget. But it's obvious that there's potential in this industry, and that's what we're pointing at in this message. When I traveled to Vestfold last week, I met among others. gardeners on a garden with 45 boergeites. There is not a normal quantity production in it, but they can get a year's work through the Inn on the tunet system. What I'm worried about is, I'm just going to draw up a couple of lines, which means that we're swindling into the many things that are developing out there, into the good ideas of nutritionists who are afraid of thinking about different things. What we have to do is make sure that the policy hits everyone, hits the width and is not narrowed so that a user uses all the resources on the simple path that politicians always think is the shortest to go. That's why we're going to need shortages, and that's what I'm going to try to shed light on when I'm going to present this both in a bio-economic strategy and in an agricultural report.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2277	It is manufactured that the market is the target of something new. It is not until the last few years that we have had such a discussion, because the whole tradition of agriculture and agriculture has been to deal with the market – seafaringly. It's a maritime, private industry that's totally dependent on the market, we're talking about. What we're talking about now is getting a greater diversity of revenue from the market, we're talking about complementary industries, we're talking about framework conditions to facilitate a market that gives you the opportunity to get income from that job and the capital you put in. My question is related to a comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, where one opens ‘for sale of alcoholic products above 4,7 % vol. not covered by the EEA Agreement directly from smaller producers’. This has been sent to the hearing. I wonder, what is the government's definition of a producer in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2286	This will be answered by Stortinget when we come back after reviewing the hearing opinions and submitting a proposal to Stortinget. My ambition is to think about the resources that are out there among those who produce this food. They're primary producers. At the same time, we can't limit it so that if you have to pick up one input factor on the outside of your own garden resource, then destroy the whole foundation of what's the main base, that's the self-production. For side producers in Hardanger, who survive to produce apples of 23 goals, this is precisely an important industry for which the government wants to stimulate, and for which the majority have said they will support. It's one of several steps to make sure that we can have people bowing across the country, and running food and drink production based on local resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2293	I come from an area in the country where we have long traditions for the production of alcoholic beverages over 4.7 pst. And there has been no joy for society. When I learn that what has been sent to the hearing means that one does not have to be a producer in the sense that one needs to create that drink, I start to wonder what the definition is. For what has been sent out, is that you can mix spirits and juice, then become a producer. I hope that's not what the government parties support from the Left to facilitate, because that's something quite different from what they give the impression. What is the content of the producer concept from the government, as it is now in the consultation document – can the Council of State present it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2300	As I said in my previous post, the Storting will be presented with this when we have finished going through the hearing statements, making a proposal and putting it forward, and then I am absolutely sure that the Storting will use all the time they need to make good judgements as to whether the limitations that the government is going to propose are right or not. But this is primarily about making sure that those who produce apples, pears and other fruits around Norwegian gardening are able to translate that part of their production that has a higher alcohol content than 4.7 and not just that which is below.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2305	This may look like a small, modest matter, but it's a little bit more. There's something a lot more, because when the government says that each one here can sell a quantity of up to 20,000 litres, which is on the level of the smallest wine monopoly sales we have in Norway, and the definition of a producer is completely unclear, it's essential to grasp it. But what I want to follow up with is the symbolism of this. From the government it is essential to sell alcohol from farms, but to sell milk, sell cow's milk, sell unpasteurized cow's milk, as they do in Switzerland and Austria, why doesn't the Council of State think about it? That one should sell what is the most beautiful and nutritious product and what many allergy sufferers need, namely unpasteurized milk – what will the council do with it? Is it coming to the hearing soon?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2313	The representative Lundteg argues against a proposal that we have not yet sent to Stortinget. I promise here and now that the proposal we are making will be based on using the garden resource to ensure that we have agricultural production, etc. of fruit, in the whole country. That is the intention of the proposal, and it comes to the proposal to take care of it. At the same time, I'm not without new suggestions on how to use the garden resources, but it's striking that the Center Party is one of the brake blocks in how we're going to develop new productions out there. When one is for food production, for local further processing as long as it is less than 4.7 pst. Alcohol in that, it's really weird to me that immediately it's 4.8 pst. It's hard for the Center Party to accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2320	I can assure the council that when the Center Party is skeptical of alcoholic beverages over 4.7 pst., it is based on experience knowledge. We have the greatest respect for the situation that has been created through Norwegian history in selling alcohol directly, regardless of our wine monopoly. It is an area for which the Council of State should have greater respect, for this is an instrument which, in consequence, as submitted for consultation, will blow up some of the things that are the beauty of the wine monopoly system. It's very interesting that here the council has commitment, but with regard to the thousands of farms that produce milk, there's no initiative. That is quite indicative of the priorities of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2330	We're not going to propose anything that would blow up the wine monopoly system. We know that there's no basis for that, we're not going to suggest that. I have a lot of respect for these producers, but I can't understand the logic when the Center Party is selling alcoholic drinks from gardening when it's 4.6 pst. Alcohol, but when it's 4.8 pst, it suddenly becomes a nightmare for all actors. I don't understand the logic. It would be consistent if the Center Party were against everything, but they aren't. They're not, and that's what surprises me with the line that the Center Party is well, there's no clear hold, no clear line selection in which boundaries go, and so I think the argument is partially attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2337	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2342	The Government's political platform, the Health Declaration, provides an important framework for the work of the Garden message as a resource – the market as a target. This is where it's going to be. evidenced that alternative business development should be pursued in order to provide the basis for a more forward-looking agricultural production across the country. The message shows in a good way how agricultural resources in the whole country can contribute to employment and the greatest possible value creation for both small and large uses, to which the Council of State has been involved. The agri-food policy should adapt those with ambitions for growth and those who primarily want full-time employment, based on the total resources of agricultural property. A single committee agrees with the government's wording in the message: ‘Human resources and creativity are crucial. A small property can be the starting point for a business idea as good as a larger property. Therefore, the policy shall facilitate growth and development irrespective of the size of the garden.’» Its reputation as an attractive industry and a professional path is crucial for the recruitment of agricultural workers. It is therefore important that the whole spectrum of agricultural resources and opportunities to create an attractive job is visible both by the administration and the industry itself. The possibilities are significant. There is a great potential for growth in food and drink, and the ‘short-range food’ approach is central here, also within agricultural and land-based tourism at a time when experiences are desirable rather than passivity. The Garden may be the welfare services arena and the agriculture energy supplier within the bioproduct, where tools and management have to play with the initiative-rich and competent gardeners who see opportunities within their field of activity. The right-hand party government has started several processes to strengthen the general framework for Norwegian business, ref. the government’s bet area ‘Competitiveness for Norwegian workplaces’ and ‘knowledge provides opportunities for all’. These are processes which are also relevant to the agricultural area. This government has also provided for good and profitable operations as they facilitate further development of the industry through the 'pull-free' motto, rather than the red-green solution with detailed regulation from cradle to grave. Prioritisation through support for full-time bonding and deregulation of quotas and market management, the abolition of concession laws and price regulation on agricultural property led to a farmer who can focus more on the possibilities of the garden rather than a study in regulations, prohibitions, prohibitions and indiscriminate support schemes that exist. I agree entirely with Lundtigen's remarks where he insists that within his room of action the farmer does what he can. But then it's important that the room of action becomes so large that he gets to take advantage of it in its own way within the framework of the gardening he has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2366	I notice that the previous speaker, the representative Grimstad, described the red-green regulatory regime, among others. stated that the repeal of the concession law was part of the results of the government. I find reason to recall that an aggregate increase has come to the point of not repealing the concession law, so that a tab of this regulatory regime – which I think is a bad description – remains in this way, primarily to ensure that we get production across the country, and that we get housing related to this production. I think that's a very wise regulation. That's not why I took the word, it was primarily to talk about a heart thing. We have seen a good number of farmers do a great job related to welfare services, especially in the Inn on the tunet projects – including these farmers in this room. I think first of all of all about the measures that are directed at children, towards the nursing elderly, and not least towards atonement, where I really think we've seen the combination of being able to let people master and learn to get up in the morning, while seeing the results of what you're doing. That is why I believe that the Inn on the tunet system is very good, and that is a win-win situation for all of us. There are two proposals from a minority related to the Inn on the tune. One relates to wanting a somewhat more offensive attitude on the part of the government when it comes to creating an action plan on how to develop Inn on the tunet concept even more than we have done today. I'm sorry it doesn't get a majority. Then it is also a proposal – proposal No. 1 from the same minority – which is about how this scheme can be related to the major integration challenges we face with the refugees coming to Norway. When these proposals suffer defeat in the hall today, I hope that this does not mean that the Council of State and the government do not think in that direction. I also do not think that the reason why the Right and the Advance Party are not involved in these proposals is that. But I will strongly emphasize and really speak very warmly for example. on the issue of the integration of refugees, the Intangement into the Tunet Scheme and activities related to Norwegian food production should be as relevant. I just want to, as strongly as I can, encourage the Council of State to see if there is any grip that can be done. In this situation, when we get so many refugees to Norway, we experience that the government is just saying that now everyone has to contribute, now we have to think about sectors. Here we have a good challenge in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2377	Like the representative Lundtigen, I come from an area where the production and sale of alcohol has been very widespread over the years. I agree with the representative Lundtigen that it had its challenges, too, but I manage, like the Council of State, not quite to see what's the difference on a product of 4.7 pst. alcohol and a product of 4,8 pst., or 10 pst., for that matter. In Norway, beer is currently produced with about 20 pst. Alcohol — not very common, but it does, and there is an enormous amount of taste in this beer. That's also what's meant by this. It is to get a whole concept for those who are involved in food and drink production – a whole concept of food and drink and the tastes that this gives. Flavour tourism is actually one of the growing industries of agriculture today, and we must also facilitate it. Of course, there should be some rules for how this should be, and that's what we want to get answers to, among other things. through the consultation sent out by the government. Then we can get some input, some ideas about how this can be regulated or deregulated, which is the most important thing for both the government and the Right and the Advance Party. When we get the hearing, and when the matter comes up on the table of the biggest representatives, I think we're going to be able to get to a system that allows us to develop this concept, like some other concepts mentioned in the message we're now dealing with. Finally, I would just like to comment to the extent that, in order to bring about business start-ups, innovation and new industries in agriculture, ideas, abilities and creations are incredibly important, as has been said here. At the same time, there must be transparency for new ideas and measures. There must be a yes-position both at Fylkesmannen and in the municipalities – with those who are in charge of the legislation. There must be a yes-position that does not prevent you from getting established, as it has tended to – when producers say that if they knew how difficult it was, they would never have started with this in the world. That's why we have to try to do what Lundtägen has also been about: look at the changes in the rules, make it easier, have a yes-position and be positive that the Norwegian farmer can be allowed to develop. We must not be skeptical and put obstacles in the way, and – not least – we must not let the Jantelaw govern what Norwegian farmers should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2386	In this debate, the word bioeconomy has also emerged. It's a nice word, but it's a word with very little concrete content. I think this hall should speak more practically. Bioeconomy is the economy of the primary industries. Primary industries are linked to photosynthesis, whether to water or to land, whether cod, thymote, or spruce. So when everyone's talking about doing something for the bioeconomy, you're talking about doing something about the economy for the people who are training and working on cod, thymoty and spruce. That's for me the content of that term. What I asked for is that the Council of State has said that it is not expected to ‘major administrative consequences of the proposals for action in the message’. It's too offensive. We have old houses in Norway on good plots, lay-outs in the West, more or less fallen down, which can be usefully put in place to house people. Then it has to be arranged so that those who have such tufts, such houses, can do so without a difficult procedure. One can go in and report it, and then it's okay: one action. So to unpasteurized cow's milk: one should not travel much in Switzerland to experience that cows' milk is sold in each intersection. At the same time, there's a poster saying that you have to warm it up to 70 degrees, but there's something people appreciate, and the quality in Norway, in terms of listeria bacteria and other bacteria, is at the level of what's in Swiss agriculture. This could be done in favour of doing something about it. It's a large market, a market of purchasing power in that area. Finally, to the representative of Mr Storberget, former Minister of Justice, who I can only congratulate, namely, the attention to «Into thin» in terms of open settlements, refugees and everything. What is there is the problem is that for those people who want to work on this, it is almost impossible to get long-term contracts with the public. I think the Council of State should be able to respond to some of these three challenges that have been mentioned, and whether one will not change the framework conditions so that it will be possible to develop its farm towards that market, because it is enormously large, and there are many who are happy about what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2397	Just a brief comment: I am pleased that the bioeconomy was also drawn into this debate, as the representative Lundtägen now said. Then I heard Lundtigen's definition of bioeconomy: spruce, thymotei and cod. I don't disagree with any of the three areas, but I also want to draw attention to our former representative Johan C. Løken's 50 theses and definitions of this, because I think with three, the representative Lundtigen is very narrow, because this is such a big and important area that will have such a big significance. For me, this is about being the good administrator, a view I know sharing with the representative Lundtigen. It's about using the resources that our country has given us, in a good, sustainable way, into the bioeconomy. Agriculture is then, and agriculture is, and the forest – and the sea and blue sector – is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2402	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2416	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2423	As the Committee says in its position, this is important: bees and pollination and the propagation that happens through it. The Committee sees the importance of having insects that can pollinate and that make us grow and grow in agriculture. The Committee also takes a serious view that some insects, especially bees, have disappeared. This means that the great diversity of nature can be challenged. We also very much agree that bees and flowers were something we learned about in childhood, and we know that pollination, or conception, is the basis of all life on this earth, whether it be plants, insects, animals or humans. We largely agree on most of the proposal that comes, but it makes a difference. What the distinction goes on is how much resources you're going to spend on one particular thing. What's important here is that there's a decline in the number of insects and that insects are important for pollination. Yes, bees are one of these insects – we agree – but there are also other insects that are at least as important as bees for pollination against special species. So the question is, how much resources will one then spend on one species, instead of seeing the whole thing in preserving the whole natural diversity? The Right Party and the Advance Party believe that this is at least as important as using large resources to point to one thing. The importance of this one thing is great – there is no disagreement – but the importance of looking at the whole, thinks the Progress Party and the Right, is greater. That's why we would have hoped that we could agree on that, that instead of being eaten in one particular species, we see the whole natural diversity together to get a strategy and an action plan that might be more comprehensive than just the tip I'm afraid we're adopting now. For the most part, no one disagrees with the importance of it, but we may disagree with how we're going to use the resources. No matter how the decision is made here today, I know that it's going to be taken seriously by the government, and that the government is going to work out such a strategy. I hope the government will take it along and maybe spend a little more time looking a lot further on it, and that eventually there will be a broad strategy, across several departmental areas, so that we get an action plan that is much more forward-looking and that then takes on a larger area than just this particular case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2434	It sounds like the case rapporteur – I thank him for the job he has done – that we are largely in agreement on the challenge in this area, which really applies to more species than one. In fact, the proposal for a decision that appears to have a majority today includes several species. When the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left form the majority behind proposals for Decision I, which states that «The Grand Government is asking the appropriate way to promote a matter of national strategy to ensure the continued diversity of wild bees and other pollinating insects», I believe that it must be more than just bees and one species. If the Right Party and the Advance Party were afraid that it would be very limited here, this is a proposal asking for a national strategy to respond to the challenges we are now facing with regard to pollinating insects. Like the rapporteur, I believe it is a major challenge we are facing, a major challenge related to many conditions, both to the import of animals, but also to issues of climate challenges and changes that will have to come and that, at my discretion, this is crucial to bet on. It surprises me a little bit that the government parties believe this is so important, as the representative Ørsal Johansen pointed out, but you are not willing to take the step and say that then we have to take action, here we have to do a job. I am pleased that a majority, without the government parties, believes that such a national strategy should be established here. I think that is a great reason to thank the proposers. I believe this is a situation that can often go under the political radar, including the media radar, sail if I have noticed that there is increasing attention around this, and it should still be. So I'll also tease and say that it's not a fact that's necessarily given in this case, and it's a controversial discussion about what kind of development we have, at least around some species. This makes it even more forced on the Labour Party to go into this to a greater extent than what has been done so far, just to be able to map the fact. We believe that knowledge of this is too weak and that the acquisition of knowledge in such a national strategy is absolutely necessary. We also believe that this is necessary, among other things. addressing the use of pesticides against this issue. And we're afraid to expand the issue beyond what's already in the proposal, to focus on a strategy related to natural diversity or its like, helps to pulverize responsibility, and we don't need any of that. The mandate, the fact-finding and the measures become too unclear. The final sum is that policies and instruments adopted are too weak to address such a challenge. That is why the Workers' Party wants to support the proposers and is committed to forming a majority in order to create such a strategy as is described in the proposal for Decision I.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2449	The decline of pollinating insects appears to be a global trend and a challenge in large parts of the world. The agricultural industry is totally dependent on pollinating insects, and I share the concern of the proposer for the decline and for the long-term consequences of this on Norwegian agriculture and on Norwegian nature. I am pleased that the government takes this challenge seriously and provides for measures that will help maintain and maintain the Norwegian population of wild bees and other pollinating insects. The measures concern and involve several sectors. As pointed out, measures along roads and ditch edges could make a positive contribution, both in the form of benevolent flowers and strategies for striking the weak. This is the responsibility of the State Road Administration and falls within the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport. The introduction of alien species that could have a negative impact on wild bees is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The same is true of the announcement to the Stortinget of an Action Plan on Natural Diversity under preparation. Many measures are cross-sectoral and cross-sectoral cooperation is important in this work. While addressing the challenges in several departments, it is important that the agricultural sector focuses on the problem of the species used in production and what measures can help to preserve wild bees and other pollinating insects, especially with regard to cultural landscapes, plantation and not least the use of pesticides. The aim is to reduce dependence on pesticides and to reduce the risk to health and the environment from the use of such substances. These objectives are being pursued, inter alia. through legislation and the follow-up to the action plan on plant protection products. Farmers and other professionals need to assess whether methods other than chemical pesticides can be used to prevent pests. The conservation of wild bees and other pollinating insects is subject to considerable attention in several departments and a number of measures have been taken in this area. The work on the nature diversity action plan will be presented to the Stortinget, and this plan will focus on the conservation of endangered species. Our conclusion in this matter is that we pay great attention to the issue, have action in several areas and ongoing work on plans for how to address this important area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2462	What the Storting is doing today is yelling a warning about the decline of pollinating insects. We've had a decline of about 10 years. 5 pst. The facts we have are that we have approx. 200 species of wild bees, of which 35 species of hops. It's a very fine masked interaction. The more I read and work on this, the more I realize that this is a fine masked interaction, because there are some utility crops that depend entirely on certain species of wild bees to multiply. One by one is a good principle in many forms. We also know that changing farming practices are much of the cause of the decline in pollination. That has not been the intention, but it has happened, and we must address that. That's why the Christian People's Party has asked that we get a systematic review while we have the opportunity, and that we can make a national and systematic effort based on a national strategy that is knowledge-based and broad. Insects depend on agriculture as much as agriculture depends on insects. There is a reason why the State Road Service has now chosen to go away from the use of injecting drugs in the weakest and to beat. It's not only because it's as efficient and traffic-proof, but it's also got higher on the agenda what a huge resource is along the path of our pollinators. We therefore need a skill that consists of us individuals – through our summing gardens – of the green staff who work with the park and facilities in the municipalities, and of the farmers. I was a bit over the rapporteur's posts, where he was afraid that it might be too narrow, and that he wanted a stronger focus than what the proposers and the committee are now in favour of – if I understood the case rapporteur correctly. That there is no disagreement about the importance of this, as the rapporteur says, is good, but we read in the settings comments from the Right and the Advance Party that it is the resources that this is on. Creating such a national strategy as is currently requested by the Storting would be resource-intensive. Yes, it will require the use of some wise heads, but it is wise to lead was in this area and use the wise heads to develop a good national strategy, so that we can take care of the wild bees and all the other pollinating insects, so that they can do the important job that we need for the future. I am also a little surprised that the centre party in the setting is not willing to show a map of what such a national strategy should contain. They will evaluate everything when it comes to the government's table. There's exciting thoughts from an opposition party, maybe a little bit eye-catching, but don't worry about it. I am pleased with the good words that include: The representative of Storberget said about this. Yes, it may seem small to talk about wild bees and other pollinating insects, but you know the world how important it is for the future. It may be in the small things that the really big changes lie, and if we don't take care of them, we've lost them – we can't afford that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2481	I would like to begin by giving tribute to the proposers from the Christian People's Party, who have raised this important question. Nearly a year ago, the European Environment Agency published a report showing that 24 pst. in Europe, extinction is threatened and almost every four hops are threatened by extinction. In Norway, 208 bee species are registered, but one third of them are listed as endangered in the Red List, according to the Species Database, and in addition, 12 of the species have not been observed in recent years. The left considers this to be a very unfortunate development. The underlying causes of this development are uncertain, but there is broad consensus among scientists and conservationists that a reduction in the world's bee population will have serious consequences for life on earth. Up to 30 pst. The food we eat depends on being pollinated by hops and other wild bees, and 84 pst. European crops depend in some way on insect pollination. The return of pollinating insects is a challenge that needs to be addressed in the most serious way. I therefore believe that there is a need for a national strategy to ensure the continued diversity of all pollinating insects, i.e. everything from bees, hops and butterflies to pollinating flies. Many positive and successful measures have been taken around the country to stop the decline of pollinator populations, but I still feel that there is a need for an overall, national and cross-sectoral approach. An important measure in this respect is the provision of an adequate proportion of cultivated or arable land managed to promote natural flowering meadows. In addition, it is important that the use of sprays continues to be restricted, as explained earlier in the debate here, and that municipal green areas, as well as land requirements, are required to have a specific proportion of crops that are important for pollinating insects. At the same time, we must not underestimate what people can do in their gardens to preserve the populations of pollinating insects. Small grips such as planting bee-friendly plants in the garden, putting out bee-hotels or hops and putting off a stain of the garden of a flowering meadow may also have a significant impact on the populations. For this reason, there is a need to draw up an information plan on how we can all organise pollinator insects in the garden and on other private properties. The continued diversity of wild bees and other pollinating insects is also an important issue for the Left, and I am therefore pleased that this proposal has a majority, as it is presented today. I agree with the representative Hemdal that the Storting with this case calls for a warning here today, and I look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2498	First a thousand thanks to the proposers for taking the initiative of national efforts for our most important agricultural workers, perhaps pollinators. In 2013, the initiative ‘Summary gardens’ was launched by then Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhjell. The aim of this campaign was to strengthen the private initiative and maintain conditions for pollinating insects in the gardens around it. There was almost a movement of people in the garden environments. Many private, important initiatives have been taken — and are still being taken. The current government has continued and launched the Summing Gardens initiative as still important. Unfortunately, the years since 2013 have not improved the situation of pollinating insects at all. Last autumn, the Species Database presented its overview of the 2015 Red List species. Here we find that 32 pst. of Norway’s breeding species, to which all our hops and bee species belong, are listed in red. The International Organisation for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) calls for special warnings for hops. Norway has a special responsibility for this species, as 15 pst. of all the world’s hop species are in Norway. This means that the challenges for our pollinating insects are now a much bigger problem than that garden owners and individuals alone can be able to deal with, and a national strategy is needed. Agriculture and urbanisation are removing many of our natural biotopes. Willing crops disappear, and in some areas there is a long way between each area of untouched grassland where insects can live in a natural biotope, without intervention. Bees and bumblebees are fascinating insects, with enormous utility for mankind. It's said that if all the bee and hop species disappeared, it would take four years before mankind could no longer exist. In Norway, our fruit and berries production is pollinated mainly by wild pollinating insects. These insects can be very special. There are, as I said earlier today, some insects that just pollinate some crops, and some crops that need specialized pollinators. It brings me to a talk about biodiversity, which many of us attended here at Stortinget a few weeks ago. Among other things, there were: talked about the importance of taking care of the wild plants that have formed the basis for our food plants. But what's the point of taking care of all these wild seed species if the insects that are going to pollinate them are dead? So without insects, we don't get any food. It's that simple. The relationship in nature of our pollinating insects is complex, and there are many knowledge gaps. We are not yet fully aware of the whole causal relationship with the major crisis in which these insects are located. We know the importance of increasing agricultural and climate change. In addition, we know that the spraying agents are both a direct and indirect cause of the death of entire colonies of insects. The introduction of alien species into our biodiversity is another factor that threatens the existence of insects. Since 1960 it has been known that parklind kills thousands of hops every year. Although we've known about this problem for more than 50 years, this tree has been popular in use, and it's still used in land-use planning. It is also known that our wild bee species can be displaced from an area when new species come into existence. To what extent has one made such assessments when implementing local urban bee measures — when one aims to achieve the opposite? No, I don't know. The various examples I have identified show that our pollinating insects need us to take a little more control over the challenges and the different conditions that may affect their basis of existence. The work to improve the conditions of insects is to coordinate efforts in all planning processes and research environments. It is about implementing direct active measures and perhaps updating legislation and legislation where necessary. In addition, it may also be a matter of making a proper assessment of whether our food production is sustainable. Can we continue to operate agriculture in the same way as today, when we know that the spraying agents we are using can eventually wipe out our whole foundation for food production? Organic farming needs to be stepped up. We in Norway can help to make an important effort for bees, hops and other pollinating insects, thus ensuring our own food production. The adoption of a national strategy for this work is thus an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2526	I share the Committee's view that the reduction of populations of wild bees and other pollinating insects is a challenge that one must take seriously. If these developments persist, they could have a number of negative consequences for both agriculture and nature. I have chosen to meet these challenges in integrating work on the conservation of wild bees and pollinating insects into the common agricultural policy. For me, it has been important to facilitate measures that will in the long term have a positive impact. An open landscape rich in species is important in the conservation of wild bees and other pollinating insects. General farming contributes to keeping the open cultural landscape open by grazing, growing and beating. In order to maintain an open and living agricultural landscape, it is still important to stimulate farming throughout the country. A range of agricultural policy instruments contribute to this in different ways. For agriculture in Norway, beekeeping is also important. In addition to honey production, this industry is of great importance for pollination of fruits, berries and oilseeds, as well as pollination of wild plants in Norwegian nature. It has been calculated that the value of the pollination work itself for the domesticated bees is about 150 million. kr per year – it is significant. The Committee points to the importance of reducing the use of a chemical plant protection product in its setting. The government has developed an action plan aimed at reducing risks associated with plant protection products, both for consumers and for the environment. Systematic efforts are being made to achieve the objectives of the action plan. This is also an important work for the lack of species and the conservation of the pollinating species. Then an e.g. Consider what one did in June last year, when a changed law so that farmers now also need to make a greater assessment of whether they can use plant protection products, or whether they can solve the challenge in other ways. In the field of conservation of wild bees and other pollinating insects, cooperation between several sectors is essential. Not least cooperation between the environmental and agricultural authorities, both centrally and locally, is involved. A holistic approach is crucial. This is one of the reasons why the government has decided to establish a national strategy for the conservation of natural diversity across sectors. This strategy will have overarching, measurable objectives for different sectors and areas. The conservation of wild bees and other pollinating insects will be part of this strategy. We know that some nature types, an open landscape and conservation of the cultural landscape are important in the conservation of wild bees. There is good cooperation between the environmental and agricultural authorities on this issue. The conservation of wild bees and other pollinating insects also depends on cooperation with other sectors. The transport sector has been mentioned as one of several important issues here. But wesemja isn't about this. It's about the degree to which you're going to create your own action plan. My assessment to the Committee has been that more important than all the world's action plans that I can draw up are effective approaches to meeting the challenges. I would have appreciated to use the resources on it rather than ever new action plans. Therefore, I am pleased that the government party initially refers to the primary position you have today, but of course I will follow up the decision of the Storting if it is such that the committee setting has multiple numbers today, which there is also every reason to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2552	Thank you to the Council of State for a very good post. I do not think it necessary to distinguish between taking effective action and having an action plan — it is also possible to take effective action through an action plan. But leave it. The Council of State says that through its usual agricultural policy, he focuses on wild bees and other pollinating insects. So my question is, today we have 22 selected cultural landscapes. In one of the comments, which do not have a majority, but which is also contained in the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party, we want to extend this to 100 areas. Is there one thing the Council of State might think of including when he adds wild bees and pollinating insects into normal agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2558	The most important thing is still to make sure of a species defect based on the fact that there are animals on the pasture, which means that we have a species defect in our terrain, and that in the inland area we make sure that we have open space that provides the basis for these insects as well. That's the main answer. When I say that I'm busy with the extent to which you're going to spend time on a plan of action rather than concrete actions, I'm not saying that it's impossible to do both, but when you're going to create ever-new strategies, ever-new action plans, you're at risk of spending time on it rather than looking for the specific measures that actually work best. I mean, that's what we did in e.g. Last year’s law on plant protection products is an example of the fact that one can do many things without necessarily being included in a separate action plan. This is linked to agricultural policy, or in the areas I live in, and one must also work across.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2563	I am pleased that the Council of State says that it is not impossible both to take effective action and to draw up an action plan, because the bulk of the population is coming today, through a vote in not too long, just to ask for a national strategy to ensure the continued diversity of wild bees and other pollinating insects. So I'm glad that there's a government council that's always been, as long as he's been sitting in the State Council chair, loyal to the majority of the population. It appreciates the majority of the population, and I think it's also tricked by a minority council. And when you look completely through an action plan, maybe you can find more effective grips than just doing this piece by piece and division. That's what the Christian People's Party and the majority in the big room today are asking for, because we see that it's such a big challenge we're facing here that we have to have complete action so that we can take care of our pollinating insects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2568	I'm not sure if I understand the question, but at least the answer is that the only thing that is better than action plans is actually action. If we could be some of that, we've come a long way. That's why I'm busy with what a grep can do. What we've done before the plant protection product is such a grip. We have created an action plan to continue that work. It has to be followed up, and the question is, how many plans do you need to do a job? The most important thing is that the job is done, and I think I should have done it without such an action plan. But if Stortinget ordered me to make it, I will of course make sure to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2573	I will not sum up too much in this debate, but I hear that the Council of State is pleased with effective action. I think that's good. That's what we need. We who are now in favour of a national strategy do not believe that is the opposite of effective action. There are many national action plans in Norway that have included an incredible number of effective interventions in a number of areas, and this is to give a holistic look and to get the effective grip on the table. But since the Council of State is so clear that he prioritizes effective action – he has been sitting in the chair for over two months, and this matter has arisen, so there is a well-known case in the department – what kind of effective action is it? Can he give me an example of something going on? It must be in the cards that this must come quickly, as it is effective. Can he give me an example of an effective action that will come, regardless of this action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2578	One of the best answers to this is the research and development of the product, for example. at Ås. It is about the extent to which mechanical tools can be used instead of plant protection products, e.g. To the extent that we're happy to commercialize it, get more people to use it over plant protection, use other plants to take up the soil instead of using plant protection products, make sure that a thing is about turning the waste resources that used to come from greenhouses into new soils, which means that we're doing things to re-take the soil instead of using plant protection products, it's about this. If we succeed in making sure that the time we spend getting new technology available on the market is shorter, it is one of the most important steps we can take. Then it's still about keeping cattle and small cattle out on Norwegian pasture, so that we keep the landscape open. This is the second most important thing we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2583	I agree with that. What is happening at Ås is very important. What happens to being able to feed animals, as the Council of State now describes, is certainly important. But the Council of State does not describe any effective action in that context. That's what I'm asking. When one is opposed to a strategy and is it clear that effective action should be taken here, what kind of effective political action will be taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and the government to achieve what the Council of State now points to? It might be interesting to hear, since you've chosen this rhetorical path, as opposed to what the majority says, that you're making a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2588	I have not chosen a rhetorical path. I would like to point out a measure that was implemented on 1 June last year, which deals with changing legislation on plant protection products. I would point out that we have created an action plan for its continuation, which I will follow up with concrete proposals. I point to the research effort being made, partly based on publicly funded resources, for example. NMBU, NIBIO and other actors who are researching to make this technology quickly available to the manufacturers out there. These are the suggestions I'm talking about. If the Storting wants them to come together in a strategy to get an overview of them, I have respect for it, and I'm going to carry out the mission I might get from Stortinget, but I strongly believe that this is an area it is possible to have an overview of without.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2593	Knut Storberget gets the floor for line no. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2596	I'll give up now, President. This is a description of what has happened, and what is happening. We have a clear expectation, at my discretion, in Stortinget that further action should be taken to address the serious situation facing us. I was so obsessed with the posts of the Council of State instead of that here was the effective grip on the road, and then I heard no one. I hear a description of what happened last June, and what's happening at Ås, and that's good and very important, but I don't need any description and outline of it. It is not at least that we in the Labour Party believe in a strategy. We actually believe that there has to be some grip, and I have to say that I have not heard any answer to what the content is, except what is already happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2603	When I refer to the action plans we have already drawn up and into which it is possible to get involved, I see several measures that have been proposed there. So I've pointed out one of the most important ones I think is done in the law last year. That's what we're going to see in the years to come if we get the farmers to evaluate how they can use other technologies instead of plant protection products. I now visit greenhouse industries that use the waste products they have of their own production, to bring up the soil, without having to use plant protection products, they use bio-carbon, for example, and that is a very good bet. This makes it possible to stimulate more, and I will try to help. At the same time, I believe that when a request for a new strategy is made, there is no reference on the part of the Labour Party to very many new, concrete measures in this plan. I think this will be based on the understanding that there is a long-term work that needs to be done systematically and that needs to be implemented as part of a holistic policy. That's what I'm talking about doing. I can do that with and without strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2610	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2618	The size is then ready to vote on the items on agenda No. 50.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2656	Case No. 2, the foreign policy statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2729	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee on I-IV. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2743	I voted and voted, but the vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2748	Then we noticed that it was not registered. It shall then vote on the Committee's position on V-XI.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2760	The Committee shall then be consulted on the position of the Committee on XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2786	The Committee's position on I is the first to be voted on. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2801	It is then voted on the Committee's position on II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2815	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2-4, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new regime for the settlement of refugees to ensure that expenditure is fully financed by the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2839	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a new scheme for the settlement of refugees by model from the Danish model, as proposed in letters of consultation from the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion on 11 March 2011.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a system in which the individual who has been legally resident can obtain residence without the right to an introduction programme falling away. It is assumed that the grants received by the municipalities will follow each other, so that the municipality in which the individual chooses to settle will receive introduction support at regular rates.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2863	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the allocations to the House Bank in order to provide sufficient loan and grant frameworks for the necessary increase in the number of reasonable dwellings.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2898	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 and 2, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3-5, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 6, by Siv Elin Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox It's like: ‘The government asks the government to explore the possibilities for increased investment in domestic farming where environmental impacts of increased domestic farming are also investigated separately.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2927	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to present the law on good trading practices to the Stortinget in the spring of 2016.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the notified Landfill Communication to come up with a list of measures to increase the volume and turnover of local food sales in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a national survey of inland fisheries.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2956	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In the spring of 2016, the government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals on how agricultural industries, in particular the In-Tunet system, can be used in relation to the handling of refugees.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit in 2016 a new action plan for ‘Inner-to-Tunet’ for the period 2017-2021.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e2992	The Committee's position on I is the first to be voted on. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e3007	It is then voted on the Committee's position on II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e3033	The Committee's position on I is the first to be voted on. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e3048	It is then voted on the Committee's position on II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e3058	With a small number of votes, the President will stress that there is a voting obligation in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-01.ana.ud2296e3139	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? That hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
