ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e104	The representative of Arild Grande, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Ferhat Güven, now takes the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e128	This case concerns three value radical proposals to abolish the constitutional protection of the law of nodels, Basic Act § 117, formerly § 107. If the basic law protection introduced in 1814 falls, the odel law could be abolished by a general majority of the Stortinget. The attack on the Constitutional Protection of the Odelslaw comes from three parties: the Party of Advances, Right and Left, led by Anders Anundsen, Right Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen and Left, Trine Skei Grande. Common to these parties today is strong faith in an economic-liberalist policy. Historically, which today stands in contrast to this basic political vision. The parties to the Right and the Advance Party are also opposed to the Concession Act for Agricultural Property. Overall, this political economic-liberalist basic attitude will eliminate the requirement of personal ownership of agricultural property and its social obligations to the private ownership of agricultural property. If this policy direction is given the necessary majority in the Storting, these parties will, over a few years, change some of the basic values on which the Norwegian gay welfare society is based. This will change Norway in which many are happy, namely cohesion and community based on a private, personal property right with a clear value base and social ownership obligations on agricultural property. The Committee is therefore sharply divided into two different backgrounds in the case. As rapporteur, I would like to present the majority view of the Committee, represented by the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Green Party, as it appears in the vote. In addition, I would like to point out further the central party's fundamentals in the matter. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left will present their assessments and conclusions in the case. So the proposals are about abolishing the constitutional protection of the Supreme Court. Following the revision of the Basic Law, the protection of the right to vote is enshrined in the Constitution, Section 117 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: ‘The law of nobility and of liability shall not be waived. The detailed conditions for its existence in support of the State and for the benefit of the Land Government are laid down by the following first or second aggregate.’;» The scope of the Odel and Entrepreneurship Law is further enshrined in the 1974 Law on the General Court and the Law on Liability, the Odel. Paragraph 1 of the Law of Goods defines the right to vote as follows: «Admissibility may be claimed to be fixed property as referred to in Section 2. Such property is called cultivated soil. The one who owns the farmland when the odelshögdstiden goes out is called growers. The property upon which it quivereth shall be called the rare earth. Section 7 of the Law states of no part of the period: «Odelsrechtt receives the grower when he has our owners with full ownership for 20 years». The right of residence is further defined in the first paragraph of Paragraph 51 of the Act of No part of the law: ‘When the owner of arable land or arable land dies and the land inherits its descendants, one of these has the right to replace it, under the conditions set out in the following paragraphs. This right, which is called the right of residence, shall not apply to the same party but where the remaining property is owned by the spouse or the partner of the heir and the heir is also a descendant after it.» Furthermore, the first paragraph of Section 56 of the Odel Act states: ‘The heir shall require that, by understanding, an acquisition price be established that is reasonable in accordance with the resulting assets. The valuation should be made with special regard to the fact that the acquirer may be able to sit down with his property. An entry fee must not be higher than the value of the property at the odeltariff, cf. § 49.’ There were some central paragraphs in the name of the public information. The majority of the Committee would point out that the exclusive right was and is a repurchasing right which gives the descendants of a non-resident the right to purchase the agricultural property from strangers in accordance with detailed rules. The right of residence is a right for the nearest descendants to take over the inheritance of the heirs, to redeem the other heirs. The purpose is that the descendants should be able to be seated with the property. In practice, the right of residence is also of great importance for ordinary generation changes. A legal characteristic of the importance of the title in the genus may be summed up as follows: a fixed law determines who can claim the property when the owner dies or otherwise changes the owner, i.e. that there is a predictability as to who will take over. This predictability gives the best rightholder the opportunity to prepare for the takeover through experience and education. Furthermore, the property is retained for no purpose so that it facilitates continued agriculture, land use, in Norway, because the next generation is given the opportunity to take over at a price that can be remunerated by the operation. Odel rights today mark gender equality in relation to ownership and the operation of agricultural property. This has contributed significantly to Norway being among the world’s highest proportion of women’s owners and users of agricultural property. And finally, the conditions mentioned above mean that the owner has greater certainty that efforts and dispositions will be of importance to the next generation. Since the 1960s, Norway has had the right of nobility to link the farm to the peasant family as seaowners. In most European countries, the farming family was linked to the farm as a livegrowth from about 50 % of the population. The 400s. This different tradition has played a major role in the social development of different countries. The law of nobility has been attacked several times, in particular from the nobility and the financial elite. They were now the strongest attacks in the 1600s and until 1811, mainly from Danish interests because the right to vote prevented the Danish nobility from buying up land and forest in Norway. This culminated in the fact that in 1811 we received a regulation that effectively led to the sale of agricultural property outside the family without the right to vote. The content of the rule was that the seller had to make an express reservation on the right of nobility if it would continue to apply after the sale. Such a reservation was very few sellers who were willing to take, because it would affect the sales price. This regulation was probably the main reason why we were granted the protection of the law of the land and the law of the land in 1814. That Regulation was repealed upon the entry into force of the Constitution. The right to sell properties that had been sold since 1811 was restored at the same time. Due to strong and clear legislation, it was avoided that access to Norwegian natural resources came to the hands of those who were less concerned with Norwegian value creation. The Danish counterpart to the odelsrecht, the bill, and the Swedish birthright were also significantly restricted during that period, but similar rules were maintained and still apply in e.g. Switzerland, Austria and parts of Germany. The majority believe that this shows that it was not by chance that the Constitution of Eidsvoll was incorporated into the Constitution of Norway in 1814, and indicates that in 1815 Christian Magnus Falsen published the Constitution of Norway. There the Falsen believes that the right of the nobility had contributed to the fact that no one here ashore had the opportunity to accumulate large estates, and in that way no one could rise above the owners of the smaller earths or free nobility. The falsification was also part of the law of 1821, which applied until a major revision in 1974, and this law is a direct follow-up to the Constitution § 117. In the years that followed, the two tops of society gradually became more and more united in a socio-cultural community. Political economic liberalism won the hegemony in full in this common upper-level society. As these spokesmen saw it, the ovil law had expired on date. Some farmers too benefit from economic liberalism, as far as they fit their own economic interests. However, the argument against the nobility institute boasted of the peasant representatives on the Stortinget, but they were not in majority, so it built up to an existential crisis around the nobility institute that peaked in 1857. Only the basic law and the requirement of a two-thirds majority rocked it completely through this spirit of time. The symbolic force in the outer right was maintained just below the left. Under Nygaardsvold, the housekeeper's time was terminated. Odelsrechte was turned to a favor for new crime families and small users as for peasants, as Johan Castberg had arranged 30 years earlier, and the term odelsrecht was then cleared for negative opinion content among the majority of the villagers. The majority note that the content of the law has changed over time. The right to vote has been adjusted from time to time, but constitutional protection has not been a majority to remove. The majority will therefore highlight the fact that both the law of nobility and the right of residence have long traditions in Norwegian history. This is from our long-lived institutes. The majority believe that what distinguishes the Norwegian agricultural community is sea-going, sea-lording, free farmers. The majority would stress that the parent institution is a protection against capital forces in order to ensure that persons with an interest and a prerequisite for managing agricultural property and food production are assured of that possibility. By spreading the ownership of the land of the many, we get a spread of power, which characterises the Norwegian social model. The Foundation has been an important factor in the rule of people, in the distribution of power and, consequently, in the development of wealth. The majority believe that the OParty Institute and its constitutional protection contribute to ensuring the long-term sustainability of the management responsibility of Norwegian farmers. This is a responsibility that goes beyond generations. Securing soil fertility – few talk about it, but it is one of the most important challenges we have – and caring for forests are good examples of this. The principle of managing the property for the best of future generations is one of the pillars of the nobility institution. A well-known concept is to leave the property in a better condition than when a sail took over. The majority note that those who own and run agricultural properties account for Norwegian food production, and food production is fundamental in any society. The majority therefore point to the need to have basic legislation on mechanisms to ensure that this is done in the best possible way and to ensure professional competence in industry. The Odel Institute represents this. Odelrechte is a private-law special right of the genus who has been associated for at least 20 years with a particular agricultural property, and so that between those of the genus who have no right of property is a priority order. This entails a right of inheritance and change, a right of redemption when the property comes out of the family and a right of solution to one with a weaker nobility who takes over the property. There is therefore reason to emphasise that all persons in Norway can acquire agricultural property if they fulfil the requirement under the law. Of these, everyone can process odel, regardless of age, sex, ethnicity, orientation or religion. The majority would stress that, on this basis, the Odelinstitute cannot be compared with the monarchy's succession. Such a comparison is fundamentally wrong. The majority note that in their proposals the proposers claim that the institutions, the right of nobility and the right of residence are contrary to the principles of freedom and property, and that they put unfortunate ties on structural development and hamper the development of a profitable and robust agriculture. The majority note that these elements have been repeated in the debate on the Odel Institute since 1814. Thus, the proposals currently under consideration are not an expression of new ideas, but they have been rejected on all previous occasions because they will have the opposite effect on society. The majority believe that the right to vote has shaped Norway’s thinking about property and property rights, where two key aspects are right and duty – and the balance between them. It follows obligations to have ownership of agricultural properties. This is exemplified by provisions on personal living and driving. The majority are therefore of the opinion that with the proposals to repeal the Basic Law § 107, now § 117, the concession law also attacks with its requirements for price regulation, personal living, personal suitability and other forms of public regulation. The abolition of the law of nobility would imply that capital would govern who would have ownership, and thus control, of the land and forest resources in Norway. The majority believe that repealing the Constitutional Act § 117 will facilitate the concentration of ownership of capital companies and individuals. There is no reason to believe that Norway will be different from other countries with little or no regulation related to the placing on the market of agricultural property, for example. Denmark, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. Experience from these countries shows that investing in agricultural property is attractive for both own citizens and non-residents, especially in periods of financial turmoil. Countries with a strong and stable economy are particularly attractive for such investments. Real estate investors are also more interested in the value added from such properties than agricultural performance. The majority point to the fact that the ostrich law is the strongest stabilisation factor in an industry that is subject to strong economic impact in the opposite direction. We have also noticed that the Odel Act contributes to the longer-term management of agricultural property by allowing farmers to see investments in a multi-generational perspective. At the same time, we believe that the Odel Act is important for the development of gender equality in agriculture, and the law guarantees personal ownership of land, which is a prerequisite for the owner to be required to live in a personal capacity. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Green Party therefore recommend that the proposals be rejected. In summary, the Center Party believes that the Odel Act is important to continue in Norwegian society. History has shown that we need constitutional protection against strong economic policy forces that think and act more short-sightedly for their own gain in terms of ownership of farm and associated agricultural land. This is not building for the country. Agriculture, the use of land, must be a long-term business activity to ensure a management mindset that promotes soil fertility and long-term care of both forest and land. The biggest threat of the Odel Act is that it becomes a law of rights without administrative obligations. Then it can become an exclusive special right to own, as opposed to those who are going to use the land. In order to ensure this primary consistency between owner and user, ownership obligations need to be linked to an economic policy whereby generally good people working in land and forest can obtain income from their agricultural work so good that young people choose to work on the farm, either full-time or part-time. This is not the case today, and it weakens the interest in the operation of farm holdings and the ability to enforce the obligations of owning agricultural property. Therefore, this is an important task to promote a red-green alliance further forward. Finally, the Odel Act promotes long-term thinking. That is why it is among the laws that best promote ecological thinking. There's something the Left Party today should take over. The Odel Act stimulates to understand the interaction in nature, on which we humans depend. The Odel Act is based on the fact that a person with personal ownership has an unlimited financial responsibility for owning, as opposed to a limited financial liability when he has company ownership. This principle promotes accountability. It promotes the authoritative human being, which is so essential to stimulate. Furthermore: Property law confers governing rights. Right of control gives power. The Odel Act spreads power and therefore promotes the rule of the people. Norway has a tradition of sea-lording farmers. It has also had a major impact on another Norwegian tradition, namely renting water from houses, owning their own housing. I would say that owning their own home and owning their own farm, has gradually become political Siamese twins, which should be promoted. The Odel Act represents gender equality, which has made a big change in ownership, and thus the distribution of power, in society. The Odel Act is not discriminatory. Everyone can process odel, but one has to show long-term ownership. Those who want short-term ownership won't get no part of their property. One must own the property for 20 years – 20 years is the requirement under Section 7 of the law of nobility. The Odel Act is a value conservative law, which has been attacked by radical forces that swear to economic liberalism in all their deeds. This economic liberalism is now showing its obvious weaknesses with greater uncertainty around our neighbourhoods, greater uncertainty about the life situation of ordinary people. In my view, the debate on the Law of Goods in the Constitution is part of a major political, ideological debate. That is why I am very pleased that the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Senterpartiet, SV and the Green Party are united in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e212	As can be seen from what the rapporteur said in his statement now, the Labour Party belongs to the majority, and I can, on behalf of the Labour Party, essentially agree with the argument that the rapporteur made in a good way when he explained the matter. I particularly agree with the views and arguments that show that the fundamental law protection of the right to vote is very important, and if we didn't have it, we wouldn't have had the good agriculture that we actually have in Norway. The protection of title and the right of residence through the Basic Law has meant that we have maintained structures that are very important for the structure of agriculture, for food production and for the settlement in Norway. We all certainly recognise that the production of food is a fundamental political issue and a fundamental political responsibility. Norwegian agriculture has produced good and safe food for generations. This is clear because we have had a good and effective organisation of agriculture, we have had good farmers, but also because our agriculture has been decentralised and largely family-based. The proximity of the soil and to production is an important factor in assessing food safety and future production. Odel and other legislation have provided the necessary protection for us to have had and to maintain such a structure in Norwegian agriculture. In addition, I would like to say this: in all countries agriculture is also a matter of society's culture and housing. The protection of the right of nobility and residence by the Constitution has greatly contributed to Norway's being Norway as we know it today, with relatively widespread housing and family-based agriculture, which so much contributes to keeping our communities alive and maintaining a fundamental condition for good societies throughout the country. This is also about. It is not just about agricultural efficiency. It's not just about the principal questions. It is about the political, cultural and social purpose of the constitutional protection of the law of nobility and occupation. Then, in preparing this case, I have heard many voices saying: Yes, that is the relevant point of view in and of itself, but that is not what we are discussing now, because it is not that we want to remove other legislation that regulates the law of nobility and the law of taxation, we just want to remove the constitutional protection. Then my answer to it is: well, if that's the argument, why do you propose to remove this provision at all, if it doesn't have a purpose? I don't believe in that argument. And one of the reasons why the Workers' Party today is so clearly behind the remarks and the arrangement that the representative Lundtigen has explained is precisely the strong attacks that we see that the current government actually has on agriculture. I am not annoyed by this pulpit to say that when we dealt with this issue before, we actually had a real discussion in the Labour Party about this. That discussion has been sidelined, and the reason for this is the large number of attacks on agriculture, with the support of the Left. We see that as a threat to the whole structure, to family-based agriculture, and it is absolutely necessary to reverse it. It is therefore not relevant for the Workers' Party in any way to support a proposal to remove this provision. That is why I say that it is good and good that we can again today reject an attack on international law in the Constitution. Then, as my next point, I want to highlight something that appears in the Right notes in the setting. It is claimed that the provisions of the Basic Law, as they are designed, ‘ conflict with the new freedoms enshrined in the Basic Law of Eidsvold’. I don't understand that sentence, and I don't understand that argument – maybe it can be explained a little later in the debate. But I'm going to argue that it has a validity. At least I'll at least put a big question mark on such a consideration. It was hardly true then, and at least it doesn't apply now. But I understand the background in and separately when the Right bases part of its argument in favour of this proposal, on reasoning which relates to the fact that liberalism has, for the most part, been taken over by the value conservative Right, the party that says that they have been the principal defender of property rights, as they have asserted through generations. I do not understand that it is possible to imagine why the Right will remove such an important provision, given that it is precisely maintaining an important part of the Norwegian property structure. I don't understand. But it is only on the basis – and perhaps we can hear that later in the debate – that liberalism has been taken over. For hear a quote, and this is a quote from the comments to the Right. It is said that the provisions as they stand today ‘prevent future-oriented investment, natural structural changes, more profitable operation and increased investment capacity in agriculture’. What is this really? Well, that's the code for the development we've seen in other countries: out with family farming, in with investment capital, Norwegian or foreign. Agriculture shall in many respects become an investment object. There is a fundamental distinction in this room in this area, and this is very important, because making agriculture an investment object for Norwegian and foreign capital, with the centralisation effect it will have, will create a completely different structure in agriculture and in Norwegian housing patterns. That is why it is so important in this debate and therefore it is so important that a majority in this Chamber rejects the proposal. This is why the Workers' Party is now so unambiguous, following a unanimous decision by the Workers' Group, saying no to the proposal. This must, of course, be seen in the context of a lot of other things that are taking place in today's political image, which is precisely about the restructuring of democracy and the centralisation of power. That is why it is so important that we say no, and that is why it is so clear that the Workers' Party is behind what the Centre Party and the rapporteur have explained in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e233	The right considers that the proposals we are now discussing should be accepted and that the fundamental law on the right to vote and to sit down should cease. It doesn't mean that we don't recognise the institution as something that has had its relevance through parts of our history, and as a system that has also had some positive effects over time, but we believe that times have changed. We believe that the time now is too long for modernisation and renewal. I will briefly go through what is our main reason for this, and then I will also answer some of what the case rapporteur and also the representative of Kolberg were in their posts. Firstly, we believe that a special group of privileged persons who are to take special advantage of these issues are contrary to the ideals of freedom that the Constitution otherwise represents. It is contrary to nutrition, it may be contrary to freedom of movement, but it is also contrary to ownership in itself. The case rapporteur and also the representative of Kolberg are concerned with – and discusses – ownership as a concept. But what is the concept of ownership? There's no resemblance between property and property. Ownership means that you have the right to dispose of your own property fairly freely, so this is contrary to ownership. Odel right enumerates a structure, not only in rough terms, but also in detail. We believe that this is a restriction of freedom, and we believe that it is contrary to the ideals that the Constitution otherwise stands for. Secondly, we believe that such rigid regulations as we are talking about here, both in fact and in practice dampen investment, innovation and also the access to credit in Norwegian agriculture. There's not all the world's reason to invest large sums of money in developing when you can't sell for what it's actually worth, and you want to wear it financially, because the farm has less value as security than it has if it can be traded more freely than today. Then there's someone who's in charge of the administration, and it's nice that properties are inherited through generations. But this is something families can do for themselves. You don't have to have a basic law protection of the right of nobility and the right of residence for families to make their own adjustments. There are many properties where there is no odel right that have passed through families, and have been managed in a fine way. I don't understand why it shouldn't be possible with agricultural properties. In the same street we see that the right to vote leads to some conflicts and uncertainties between the parties involved. It is not necessarily the case that the person who is first in line under the law of nobility is the one who is, in reality, closest to – most naturally – taking over the farm. There may be others who have been connected to the farm for a long, long time, and it may be that those who have the right to vote have not necessarily had that kind of connection with the farm. And then we will also show that the odelsrecht as a constitutional institution is essentially a strange phenomenon. Other countries have managed to solve this without legislating these questions. We should do the same. To the extent necessary for regulatory conduct in these cases, it may be resolved by ordinary law, such as: concession law. It's also worth noting the paternalism that we see from the parties that insist so strongly on keeping this. Not only does the state know better than the individual family, the individual, the individual farmer, but the state obviously knows better than the majority of the population. So you want a constitutional protection of this, so you have to have a two-thirds majority, and it takes six years to change it. There's something I have problems understanding. Then it is also problematic for some people to find themselves investing in agricultural property – it is negative. Kolberg says we're going to have an investment farm. I'm a little uncertain about what's in that term. But if someone sees opportunities in agricultural properties and wants to invest for the future, there must be something positive. I can't come to any other industries where you say, "No, we can't do this, because it will make it attractive to invest in our industry, so we have to avoid that for a long time – using the Constitution. I think that's weird. For the right, ownership means that if you own a property, you have to dispose of it as freely as possible, as long as you do not violate the freedom of others. With the right of nobility, as it stands today's fundamental law, many are restricted – both the freedom of the individual human being and the freedom of the Stortinge to make the structural changes that the Stortinge wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e254	Odel right is a relative's right, no ownership. It thus contributes to highlighting the importance of relatives, at the expense of personal freedom. Odelrecht has been in Norway for more than a thousand years, but not without debate at all, and I am sure that this debate will also continue after this day. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left point to the fact that the Eastern Court has been debated for hundreds of years, and today it is a strange phenomenon which is not similar in other Western countries. The lots consider the right to vote to be an obstacle to the development of the farm as an industry and place of residence. If agriculture is to have an important place in future Norway, it requires modernisation. Furthermore, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left believe that the agriculture of the future depends on the opportunity for initiative, action and creative people to settle on agricultural properties and develop them on the basis of the opportunities they see. In order to ensure settlement and increased diversity in rural areas, it is appropriate to facilitate the purchase of small farms so that those who wish and are committed to farming can do so. A more active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are essentially a place to live is much more important for a living agriculture than maintaining the right to live. A number of the considerations of today's right of nobility and expressed by adherents to the law of no part of the law can be achieved through other instruments of an economic and legal nature, including the law of concession. Agriculture has a completely different function in our society today than it had at the time of the exercise of the right to vote. Some years ago, there were certainly some points by it, but in the past 25–30 years, there have been extremely large changes in agriculture that make us see that one has to ask questions about whether it is still a practical institute to have. We agree that it should be possible for qualified people to establish themselves in agriculture, but it is therefore impossible for a person who today leaves the agricultural school and wants to invest in agriculture, and who does not have the right to acquire agricultural property or any other opportunity to acquire agricultural property, to purchase an agricultural property on the market. Price regulation is also a factor that causes very few agricultural properties to enter the market. The Odel Institute also causes the properties to remain in the families. Even if you hadn't had the Odel Institute, I think the relationship between parents and children would be able to be solved in a good way. It is wrong, for example, when parents and children agree that the property should be sold out of the family, that some distant relatives should then be able to come and take the property of no part. This often means that the property is not sold anyway. Is agriculture really served by this situation? State agricultural management is precisely the body in this country that manages concession rules, etc. In the case of agricultural property, it is worth noting that they have strong arguments for the abolition of the right to vote. The Constitution confirms that no no nobility is allowed in Norway. However, specific provisions for agricultural inheritance seem to be appropriate. Here, obviously, blood bands are thicker than water. Farmers tend to define themselves as self-employed. The Constitution has previously confirmed that there should be no new and permanent restrictions on nutrition. What's the absolute right of not exactly that? While the unregulated open housing market offers, prices and demand that determine who is to be bought, the right to vote acts more or less as a pre-emptive right. Yes, even in the case of agricultural property, it may be regarded as an encumbrance on the property. With such unforeseeable frameworks as the right to vote and to sit in agriculture, it is no wonder that a labourer is recruiting for agriculture. The centre party has expressed an early awareness that they are opposed to facilitating the requirements of agriculture, such as compulsory residence and compulsory employment, price control and prohibition of sharing, as well as the right to vote. The reasons for this resistance include, inter alia: has been found to be at risk of having farmers who do not want them. What's worse? Getting young, initiative-rich farmers into agriculture, wanting to see opportunities? Or to keep farmers as hostages because they don't dare to bet in danger that there's a person out there in the quite country with better rights to the property than they themselves have? The party to progress is a party to facilitate the strengthening of the ownership of farmers, so that they can dispose of their own property by, for example, owning, renting or renting out all or part of the property at a market price.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e271	The proposal to abolish the fundamental law protection of the Supreme Court was last examined by the Stortinget on 11 January 2011. Then none of the proposals got either majority or constitutional majority, and the Christian People's Party was against the proposals at the time. So are we today. We still want a special protection under the Constitution. We believe this is because this is important for Norwegian agriculture. The content of the Law of Goods has changed over time. Who has the right to vote has been adjusted from time to time, but there has not been a qualified majority to remove the protection of fundamental law. That's good. It must be retained, in our opinion. Both the right of residence and the right of residence have long traditions in Norwegian history. The Odel Institute is a protection against capital forces and provides for the possibility for persons with an interest in, and prerequisites for, the management of agricultural property and food production. The Fundamental Law Protection of the Odel Institute contributes to ensuring the long-term sustainability of the management responsibility of Norwegian farmers. This is a responsibility that goes beyond generations. Odel law has long traditions, but odel law has been attacked several times. Yet it has survived. It also survives today's delinquency treatment, and we in the Christian People's Party are happy for that. In Norway, we have independent, self-owned and free farmers. It is precisely a characteristic of Norwegian agriculture. The Christian People's Party believes that the Odel Institute contributes to the good management of agricultural property and food production. At the same time, it is about the spread of power. By spreading the ownership of land to the many, we get a good spread of power. This too is a characteristic of Norway, and it has been an important value over many generations. The Christian People's Party does not want to change this. We believe that it is necessary to respect the wording of the Constitution at this point. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring good recruitment to the agricultural industry. In that case, it is essential that the professional can have a viable income from his/her work. Secondly, the farmer, like others, must be able to have a leisure time and a vacation. It is necessary to provide for good arrangements for generational change and for other acquisitions of agricultural property. New owners therefore need to be stimulated to active ownership, operation and housing on the farm. Of course, the Odel Act should not prevent a healthy development of use and active ownership, on the contrary. At the same time, the Christian People's Party believes that the time limit for nobility should be reduced, while the nobility's rightholders must be notified when the real estate property is offered for sale, so that external buyers are given a faster explanation of whether or not the nobility is wanted to be exercised. And we believe that the same requirements must be imposed on all those who acquire a certain size of agricultural property. But these are policies that come out of the foundation we have in the Norwegian model of society, which has been developed through generations, with administrative responsibility as a guiding principle. So we see no reason to repeal the Constitutional Law as it stands at this point today, and we therefore vote against the proposals. Otherwise, I refer you to the case rapporteur's thorough and good review of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e288	I have to say that I am sitting here and am a little surprised at the concern of the representatives Lundtigen and Kolberg for the progress of liberalism – I had almost said, had it even been so well. If we look around the world today, it's probably the reactionary, nationalist, and isolationist march that's reason to be concerned about. Is there a time when liberal principles, individual rights, universal rights really need to be suspended, that's the time we're living in right now. The Constitution is about general principles, and for a liberal party, it is absolutely essential that positions and rights should not be inherited. Odel law has been under discussion for hundreds of years, and today it is a strange phenomenon which is not similar in other western countries. Odel law is in many places a direct obstacle to the development of the farm as an industry and place of residence. If agriculture is to have an important place in future Norway, modernisation is required. The agriculture of the future depends on the opportunity for initiative-rich, progressive and creative people to settle on agricultural properties and develop them in the light of the opportunities they see. In order to ensure settlement and increased diversity in rural areas, it should be easier to purchase small farms so that those who wish and are committed to farming can do so. A more active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are essentially a place to live is much more important for a living agriculture than maintaining the right to live. In addition, they will be protected by other instruments of an economic and legal nature, including the concession law, by all, with the greatest possible consideration of the universal nature of today's universal rights and which are expressed by the adherents of the law of nobility. Odel law often acts more like an over-the-counter obligation than an over-the-counter right. A lot of people feel that they have no choice. This allows us to get farmers who are not really motivated to take the job, but feel that they have to manage houses and land based on the work of their ancestors. I think Norwegian agriculture would have been much better off getting engaged farmers who want to use the farm for something other than feeling an obligation to take care of an inheritance. In particular, agriculture is the only area in which farms have to inherit firstborn. There is no one who would suggest in his almost wildest imagination that we should include in the Constitution a provision that family-run businesses should inherit the first-born almost on the basis of a democratic principle. The title is obsolete and should be abolished. The paradox is that if the law of nobility is repealed, farmers will have exactly the same rights as they have today – they only get one more: the right to dispose of their property in the same way as everyone else and to decide who will take over the farm after them. I therefore refer to the proposal made in the document to repeal the Constitution § 117.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e303	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e306	SV is part of the majority of the committee that wants to retain the constitutional rights of the nodels and occupations. There are three peculiar reasons for that. They are partly overlapping, but there are several speakers before me. The first is that over time in Norway, it has proved to be a very well-functioning way of managing land and gardens and thus managing community in Norway, a way that creates a culture to sustain the earth, to improve and build it up and for a strong sense of responsibility attached to the earth. It's extremely important for a society to have a way where a continuous manages the earth and what it means around the community, in. There's a good way to do it. The other reason is that it is completely open-minded, as I see it, that it has led to a much more even distribution of land and thus the power that lies in it, than alternative schemes would lead to, since the alternatives are essentially market-based schemes. It has made Norway a more egalitarian country than it would otherwise have been. It has made agriculture and landowners a field with less class differences than we would otherwise have. There is no doubt that our communities also have less class distinctions because of the right of nobility and the right of residence than they would otherwise have. It's both been a good way to manage the land, and it's done Norway less classed than it would otherwise have been. So to the third argument, and that's that over time it's turned out to be a very good -- not spotless, but a very good -- system for Norway, which is relatively little conflict around, and where one manages the problems. These include: because, as the representative Elvesuen said, you have to take over a garden, but you have the right to do it. Because I'm not conservative, it's not a self-contained argument or a self-esteem to keep things as they always are, but when there's good and factual argument for it, and it's worked well, I'm going to say that I focus on it. It is also my opinion that there is good reason that something that has such deep roots in our history and has been proven to work so well, should continue to have own constitutional protection. The representative Skutle calls it paternalistic that a retention of constitutional protection by a minority in the hall will. It is the idea of Founding Law that a mere few cannot change certain basic rights that exist there. If it is paternalism that a minority can prevent change because it is constitutional, the idea behind Grundlova must be paternalistic. The whole idea is that she takes care of certain permanent dishes over time. For me, it's rather an example of a legend that belongs to the Constitution, because it's part of the long lines in our history, not part of the short political lines. Finally, I was going to make a brief comment on the debate on liberalism that has been here. I believe that much of the cause of the disagreement is due to the fact that the debate is used in a wide variety of ways by different speakers. The representative of Elvesuen used the epitome of liberalism, namely that liberalism is historically an ideology that emanates from the age of dawn and the French revolution, which is about the individual’s freedoms and justices – equal freedoms and justices in relation to the state. The whole idea base behind it, from among others. the philosophy of information, was that the individual should have certain inviolable rights, whether freedom of expression, after each vote or right of ownership, equal to all human beings, which the State cannot undermine in different ways. For this reason, it is also true in Norway that the Left Party and subsequently the Workers' Party and the SV are jumping out of this liberal basis of ideas, but a central part of the liberal basis of ideas, clarified gradually beyond the 1800s and 1900s, is that the rights can only exist if one has a state that regulates the conditions around them, otherwise there will be freedom only for a few. The rule of law must be developed and developed in such a way that the rights are valid for all and become regulated. One must have extensive financial arrangements to ensure a reasonable economic distribution. If not, it will not be possible for many people to take advantage of those freedoms. We have developed things like the education system, for example, which is most possible for everyone, because if everyone has the opportunity to take education, the most likely thing to do is to use their talents and take part in those freedoms and dishes. Hence, it is the liberal idea base that is the basis for most of the left-hand side, but definitely not the whole left-hand side, in modern times. What I believe representatives Kolberg and Lundtigen refer to when they talk about liberalism, is what is often called market liberalism, that is, an idea where one has interpreted liberalism as just about the economic dimension, that economic freedoms should apply, and that a set of states and individuals should stand up as opposites. In my view, it is contrary to a reasonable interpretation of what the liberal basis of idea is, which was just the freedom of the individual from privileged groups, and in which democracy is involved in providing protection for individuals in many cases from the privileged groups, whether they are the spiritual, economic, or other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e327	First of all, I would like to say that I think there has been an exciting hour in the Stortinget – a good debate, in fact, that touches on unusually important sizes, not just for those who run agriculture, but for our country. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his contributions, who very much captures what I myself want to express. But some comments I would like to come up against the posts that have been, and in particular from those who now want to remove the fundamental law protection of the nobility and liability law. First, it is produced in many ways as if the right of nobility and the right of residence represented a contemplation that is immature and not adapted to our times. It was probably the representative Holthe who said that agriculture has a different function today than it had before. I disagree. More than ever, there is well reason to stress that agriculture not only has an important function, it actually also has almost a hundred percent the same function, and the need for this function, that is, producing food, is more important than ever. It is a size that, according to my concepts, is characterized by great long-termity, and you need rules and a framework that also has the long-termity of the eye. As far as this is concerned, it is my opinion, and also the view of the Workers' Party, that when this debate tries to establish a link to operations, it is already going wrong there. For the question is, is it that protecting the rights that actually give the relative a advantage means less productivity? Agriculture has shown productivity growth, which is probably among the largest – at least in mainland Norway – compared to other types of industries. That's not how you might want to make it, that this is an industry that only produces worse and worse. And then we've seen a halve of the number of uses. We have seen a significant decrease in annual work. But we see an increase in production. I have heard the Minister for Agriculture, who comes from the Progress Party, also say that we are facing a production growth which is record-breaking compared to other types of enterprises. One of the reasons why we ensure housing, but also high productivity, is that we have the type of dense lineage associated with the operation of soil and forest in Norway, that it actually brings our own gains – for those who are engaged in productivity. So when I hear representatives from both the Left, the Advance Party and the Right now ask for action, and that was said to be initiative-rich, creative and engaged, farmers, I have to say that I think it is with respect to reporting that something should be reflected about the productivity growth we have in Norwegian agriculture, and that it does not indicate that the set of rules and framework we have related to the marketing of agricultural property has contributed to the weakening of initiatives and measures, and to being creative in any way – rather on the contrary. I believe that this legislation – which is old, which we have had with us for a long time, and which many countries have not – also helps us to realise what is one of the main objectives of agricultural policy, namely that we must manage to maintain a widespread settlement, and that we are linking the business to the families and not linking business and ownership to those who have to sit on a lot of money and want to invest. In this way, I believe that this legislation is also a stumbling block to market liberalism. Finally, I believe that it is important for the recruitment of agricultural workers that we have rules that also have constitutional protection, which are linked to the possibility of acquiring property at a reasonable price. The passenger tariff and the right of entry are such a protection. Those who want to front market liberalism into this, not only want to remove the right of nobility and liability, but also attack price regulation, price control and the concession law as such. This could mean not only removing the possibility of imposing housing on people where the properties are, but also opening up a completely different kind of pricing, which will make it worse to recruit people into agriculture, that it actually gets more expensive. Finally, it has also been argued that it is desirable to ensure recruitment to Norwegian agriculture by removing these rules. I have heard, also from the government, that in the case of recruitment in Norwegian agriculture, it is described as better than ever, agricultural schools are filled up, and in fact more and more people are applying for this type of industry. And we see that one of the reasons why especially younger people can do this is that you have a community, you have an environment, you have a family around you that supports, but you also have a code that allows you to get in at a reasonable price, so you get a return on the effort you make. As you can see, the fundamental law's protection of the right of nobility and the right of residence is really very far-sighted. This is not an immature piece of legislation that should be abandoned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e346	I am particularly pleased with the last representative of Storberget who said that the odelslaw is foresight. Its more is working on the culture and attitude behind it, the more you understand why it has been so long. The representative of Storberget also mentioned the removal of the right of residence. I refer to the first paragraph of Section 56 of the Odelslaw, where it says: ‘The valuation shall be made with particular regard to the ability of the acquirer to be seated with the ownership.’ Considering the principle that it should weaken recruitment, it's completely turning things around in your head. But we can philosophize something more about what we mean by recruitment. Most people talk about recruiting as synonymous with working on the ground, doing it as a business. But it is clear that the right of residence weakens the recruitment of those who just want to own, not operate. But then those who want the right of residence should clarify it. I have some comments: the representative Elvestuen made a statement that the right to vote means that property must be inherited. That is a fundamental misunderstanding! It is a fundamental misunderstanding of the whole odelinstitut that the property must inherit. I tried to say that, and I can repeat what I said in my post: that is, «the title was and is a repurchase right which gives the descendants of a nobility the right to purchase the agricultural property from strangers under detailed rules» – i.e. a repurchase right – «the right of title is a right for the immediate descendants to take over the estate of the heirs, in return for the redemption of the other heirs. The purpose is to enable descendants to remain in possession of the properties. The right of establishment is also of great importance in practice in the case of ordinary generation changes.» Odelsrecht does not mean that it “must inherit” – it is a fundamental misunderstanding on the left’s part. And when the Left says that the law of nobility is such that it is more "a duty of nobility than a right of nobility", there is also a lack of understanding of what is happening in the countryside and in the agricultural families today. More and more of the properties in which it is no part are taken over by those who are not the best nobles. There is a cultural change, so that one in the family agrees that one deviates from the order from a common understanding of the family. The representative, Elvesuen, talked about making it easier to buy small products. I noticed carefully what was said in that context. There was not a single word about social obligations to own what was called small-scale use here. That's what a few years ago was called mass use – so it's a completely abstract concept. But forget it. There was not a single word about duties, not a single word about personal property rights from the Left Party. Then the representative told Elvesuen that the representative Kolberg and I were afraid of liberalism. What I am afraid of, and what I am also sure is that Mr Kolberg's representative is afraid, is the economic liberalism that is behind the emergence of the reaction that is now taking place in Europe, namely the many who are being adversely affected by economic liberalism and who are responding. That's a lot of us that's freaked out. What happens is a reaction to economic liberalism. The reaction to economic liberalism is not so great in Norway because that ideology has not received so much thanks, among other things. because we have a different distribution of ownership and values in Norway. The representative from the Progress Party said that one had to get away from a system where distant relatives can take the property of nodel. I would then just like to refer to what is stated in Section 8: ‘Aside from the grower, if any parent has eaten the whole property with no part, or one of his grandparents is the last owner of the whole property with no part, his successors also have the right to no part.’ So today, taking back a real estate is linked to being a child of parents who have no part, or you are in such a situation that it is your grandparents who own the farm – then you can come in. To call it distant relatives I don't think the Progress Party believes when they think about it. The right hand side is a good game. They are against the law of no part because it prevents structural grips as they wish. But then one tells itself in it a call for ‘modernisation and renewal’. I will once again join the representative of Storberget who said: what has happened in agriculture in terms of labour productivity development, there are no other industries nearby. Why can't the Party Right soon tell the story as it is? Under the law, there have been so many modernisations, so many changes to keep up with the hour, that no other industries have been close to changes in labour productivity per hour. So the Party Right says it's against the Fundamental Law ideals of freedom. Yes, it's in the Constitution, so it's part of the ideal of freedom for what we're talking about here. I agree that there is a restriction on the freedom of ownership of agricultural properties, but that is exactly what we want. That's exactly what we need because we have to combine the individual's personal property with the social duties. That's what is the modern understanding of private property. An individual may not have an unlimited private property right. A person must be entitled to ownership with obligations to balance the different interests. To say that the odelslaw mitigates the investment will and the access to credit is a fundamental error. If you think you're going to invest beyond what the property can earn, and that a later one comes into an economically fragile situation, yes, it limits that behavior, and that's good. That's great! Having a personal ownership that means that you have to take responsibility for the debt you take on the property – it’s great! It's challenging, and there's something positive about it. The representative Kolberg said that property should not become an investment object. The representative Kolberg said we shouldn't get into the situation that it's going to be with the families and with the investment capital. That's what the representative Kolberg said, and I can join that 100 pst. - 100 pst.Oh, my God! That's so brilliantly said by the representative of Kolberg. So I just want to end with what the representative Kolberg said about removing the odel law in the Constitution is part of what Right is working for, a restructuring of democracy and a centralization of power. That's exactly what I'm saying. Right wants to take away the obligations of ownership, want to weaken the power of people, want to promote the power of capital. Therefore, the Right has also proposed to remove the entire concession law. It's not said here. The impression is that the Right is against the Odel Act, but the Concession Act. I would like the Right to come out and clarify whether they have now turned around on this question, whether they are in favour of the concession law. What I've read is that the Right is opposed to the Concession Act: there should be an unlimited freedom to own property, whether there are persons or companies residing here or there. The future must be based on a balancing of interests. One has to balance interests through the People's Rule. What we're talking about here is a necessary tool for that. I want to repeat what I said in my first post: I am very pleased with the broad alliance that has now created a platform for further work on the distribution of power and rights in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e392	The representative Skutle said on behalf of the right here, referring to this whole discussion, that this is not how we have it in any other industries. No, but it is linked to the fact that agriculture and food production must not be regarded as an ordinary industry. Agricultural production and agriculture in a community are not footwear production. It is the production of something that is essential for a society and that has a major impact on society's structure and housing. It is therefore necessary to have a fundamental constitutional protection of the property structure in agriculture. When the Right Party – and the Advance Party – chooses, for that matter, but especially the Right Party – to ignore it, it is quite appropriate that this debate become as it is now, with a clear right-left separation. This is about society's values far beyond running a company or operating a business in general. This is about the fundamental, and this has been in the Constitution ever since 1814. Norwegian agriculture, as I said – and I would like to repeat it, because I do not want it to disappear – has been a brilliant industry for Norway and for the Norwegian population for generations. But it has to be restructured into what I call a liberalist structure, in the sense of the word that it has to be market liberal. To the representative of Elvesuen, it's just to point out that, of course, with the background of what I said, it would have been as good as the representative said. But there I point to what the rapporteur said now, and which I support, namely that the economic liberalism that is seen throughout Europe, including in agriculture, how large companies buy, structure, gather and obtain cheap labour, have no proximity to what is going on – that is what is happening all over Europe – because they do not have legislation to prevent it. And I wish the Left, with the liberal tradition – and then I put the emphasis on the word "liberal" – had really understood this. I wish that the Left had placed itself in the tradition of the Left in understanding the concept of 'liberal', but liberalism has also taken over – in my understanding of the word. That's what's so very sad, because the left has more than any other party in this room credit for what's been the tradition since 1814 and beyond, that's building society for it to be liberal, and taking care of the individual human being. And some of it was just having legislation, among other things. in agriculture, which prevented the large owners of property from pushing out the small ones. That was great. But why they're on the social train to which the Right Party and the Advance Party invite is completely incomprehensible to me. And the arguments that are put forward are, of course, right-wing arguments. These are not the arguments of the Left, and at least that is not a liberal argument, given the position and authority of the individual human being in Norwegian society, including agriculture. The representative Skutle said we're also talking about the freedom of the families. Yes, there are some examples of it, certainly, around. But what is all the experience when we remove legal protection from taking over the market altogether? In the short term, the market takes over, and families are set aside. It doesn't last that long either. I wish we in this room, which – I kept saying – political despite everything is not larger than it is, had understood what this means for Hallingdal, Gudbrandsdalen and the farmers around. I wish the Norwegian big thing could say that no, we shouldn't, because we want to keep Hallingdal and Gudbrandsdalen, but it's not like that. And it is so fine, as the representative Lundtigen has said, that it is such a broad alliance against this today – that we are putting down the foot for at least this part of social development, so that economic liberalism does not take over completely here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e403	Good politicians are able to assess the challenges a country faces, make laws to meet those challenges and be willing to change to meet their values. That's why I'm not a conservative politician, so I think you sometimes have to change things to take care of something, and that's why I think you also have to be able to change the Constitution to take care of some values. That's always been our starting point. I was not able to check this – now it was heard from Lundtegen as if we had been jumping for the Right Party and the Advance Party, but I think we have meant this in this room for 20 years. Most times I have been involved in discussing it, the Right Party and the Advance Party have also been critical of the Left's proposal to change this in the law, but this is most often the case: we are first proposing things – and slowly, but surely it goes into it. For the left, it is the individual who is the starting point of the policy, it is 'people first' that is our slogan. For us, it's important that every human being should have equal rights. That's why it was fascinating to hear Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell's contributions, I think I agreed with almost everything he said about the struggle for universal rights, the struggle for equal opportunities in Norwegian society. But he falls on the edge of the jump when he thinks that some rights are the inheritance to determine. Some rights are the heirs and genes that decide to have. Others are not born with those rights, nor should they have the possibilities. If you don't have the genes to say that you have a farmer in the genus, you should not be allowed to run the land either. That is what is the starting point and the conclusion of what the representative, Mr Solhjell, said. I think it's a strange logic that doesn't belong today. Had it been like this that only land was the starting point for power in Norwegian society, I would have been involved in much of Lundtigen's argument – if it was just owning land. But this society has evolved, there are many other backgrounds to exercise power in a society than to own land. I know that there are many of them who own land, who feel quite far from power. But when you made the law of no part, the starting point was that the access to the earth was power. Then a law was created that just led to the spread of power. Now it's law itself in a society where power takes on completely different things than just earth. Then the law is actually cementing for some families to take advantage of the joy of being a farmer. It's just determined by the genes, and it's never stood for the left in this room. The Labour Party also says that when they put themselves in government, they discussed whether they might go in to cancel the whole law, while they now say with a great deal of bravour – with another government – that it is completely out of date. In the left we are so principled that constitutional changes mean the same thing about the same who is in government. We have had an amazing production growth in Norwegian agriculture, but we also have an incredibly large decrease in the number of uses, and there are a lot of people who are being set up. Of course, a lot of people feel the pressure that odel has to inherit. It is quite clear that I and the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen have frequented a little different kitchen tables. I come from housekeepers' families, I come from an area where there are also many small farms. I've seen many young people who feel pressured to take over something that doesn't fit into their lives, while many who want to, don't get the opportunity because they don't have the genes and don't have the pressure from the law hanging over them – as expected to complete them. It is important to regulate agricultural property, regulate the movement of agricultural property, it is important to spread power also in that area, but the challenge today is to get the most land in operation. The fact that as much soil as possible is to be run should be the goal of this hall, not that inheritance should be the starting point for the distribution of goods in a society. There are so many that are not allowed in. There are so many people who think that the reason for going to agricultural school is maybe to find someone who has these genetic advantages it is to have access to land – in order to get the opportunity to live out his dream. It's not the Rema-Reitan we're fighting for, we're fighting for all the kids who actually want to run agriculture, who want to develop land they get access to to produce food around the world. It's those who today get no because of this law. So I have to say I'm a little startled at the analysis of what are challenges in Europe. After the fall of the wall, it was almost an understanding that the liberal values in Europe had won. Now we see dark clouds in many countries, among others. the country from which we have official state visits from now on. We see it in Austria, we saw it in Hungary, and we also see ashore around us that the great heroes of old age grow up in the form of sultans, kings and emperors. In Austria yesterday, it was high time that these values were achieved. That's what we're fighting against. We fight against the brown extremists, we fight against the nationalists who only cultivate themselves and their own, who grow back in history in a way that makes them actually want to influence the Norwegian museums' reports of the history of the countries. They transform history and dream back into tsars and sultans. That is the challenge in Europe today – it is not that you fight for liberal ideas, and it is not that you fight for inheritance in fact not to determine what future opportunities you should have in Norwegian society. It's actually a struggle for every human being to have its value and freedom regardless of where you come from and what genes you have. This is the struggle for freedom in Europe today. That's what we have to fight for, not the fight against us actually dealing with each other, the fight against us actually moving as free people in Europe. It's so backwards, the challenges we're now facing, that I don't understand how that's possible. It is precisely now that liberalism is being pressured in Europe; it is right now that individual people are being pressured in Europe. To present it as a challenge for someone to take advantage of inheritance – to get into an industry that you want to work in Norway – I don't understand. It is at least very backwards from all the analyses you can have when you look beyond the choices that Europe is now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e429	I have also not checked the records from Stortinget's history, but I think the previous speakers are quite right in their history description of the background of this constitution and varying support over time. The Odel Act is one of our oldest laws, and it has undoubtedly been important, both historically and culturally. The law has ensured and regulated the generational changes in agriculture in a predictable way for hundreds of years and has secured the peasantry against Danish nobility during the Danish era and against abuse of authority in general. Therefore, in the Constitution of 1814, the right to vote was given a special protection. I think the case rapporteur gave a very good description of the story, but a history description is to look back, and as legislator we will look forward. You don't have to visit very many farmers to see what might be the most difficult question they get. Before, of course, it was the question of generation change: When are you going to transfer the farm? That’s not the question today – the question is either: Do you know who will take over the farm? That's the hardest question. And you can do that in Hallingdal, in the Gudbrand valley, in Numedal, in the Setesdal and in the flatlands; wherever there is agriculture, there are too many farmers today who can't answer who of their children want to take over. It's a challenge. That is the reality. It's also a backtrace that's important for this discussion. Agriculture has shown that it consists of the country's most skilled men and women. It shows the development of productivity, which many people have experienced. There's no doubt about it. These are people who are genuinely concerned with the industry of which they are part and which deliver results – for themselves, of course, but also for society through the production of high-quality food. Then, too, this productivity growth is due to large sums of money being invested by the family, by the owner himself, and by society above the state budget in productions that go far beyond what is a single owner's own time. It extends further and also becomes relevant to the next generation of owners on that farm. Therefore, it is important for the owner and society to facilitate that the person taking over the farm is the most motivated and, hopefully, also the most qualified — not related to age and birth order, as this law is constitutional to do. Agriculture is facing new and fundamental challenges today that the law of no part is unable to meet. It is no longer necessary to protect the industry from Danish graves, nor is it necessary to regulate the choice of occupation of the oldest in the breeding flock on Norwegian farms. I was very inspired by the representative Kolberg who spoke about Norwegian ownership; I am very pleased about that. But we don't have to read more than in today's newspapers to see that the same party, the representative of Kolberg's party, maintains what is the largest disqualification for Norwegian ownership, with its ongoing struggle to change and abolish the property tax, which discriminates against Norwegian local ownership and favours foreign ownership. That's what I think becomes a very funny argument. We know that there are many young girls and boys who have both interest and motivation and competence to start farming, but who may be further into the stock order, or who do not have any right at all. Their way into agriculture, even though they are applying for all the world's agricultural education, is the same, because there are too many barriers to giving them the opportunity to enter an industry, because there are no properties for sale. A vital agriculture to meet the future must be more open to those who are not older in the sibling flock. The time has come for a thorough review of the Odel Act in order to better facilitate the entry of interested young people into the industry. I believe the first natural step will be to remove the constitutional protection. As long as the right to vote is fully locked in this way, it is in practice not possible to make changes or adjustments that are needed by agriculture today. Constitutional protection stops any broad assessment of the law. It is also interesting that the State Agricultural Administration has stated that: ‘there are no arguments in place to maintain the exclusive right which is so burdensome that it is appropriate to continue the legal institution. The SLF therefore recommends the abolition of the right to vote’. They write that – and the State Agriculture Administration is the National Professional Authority for the Odels Act. I think it is striking that there are so few people who place the emphasis on the current owner – the current owner – in the discussion on the law of nobility. Is it not more natural for the seller of an agricultural property to have greater influence over who takes over the farm than for the oldest boy or girl in the nursery to have a statutory right to the same? We must rely more on the current owner, for he or she has almost without exception a very strong self-interest in transferring the farm to the most suitable. This interest in the further development of the farm is also important for the overall development of agriculture. A review of the law according to whether it promotes or inhibits a desired development in the industry does not necessarily end with a conclusion that the right of attorney is to be liquidated as such. But as long as the law is constitutional, such a review is almost wasted, because constitutional protection provides very little room for action for changes to the existing law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e462	I'm not going to spend very long time now at the end of this debate, I'm just going to address a few things that have come up in the debate. I think the representative Solhjell misunderstood me a little bit. I do not believe that the Constitution is patriotic, but I believe that the odelsrecht and the constitutional protection of it is paternalistic. Paternalistically means that we don't trust you or your family to make a choice that makes sense to you and society, so we think it's best for the big community to make that decision. That's the definition. This is a law like that, it's a paternalist proposal. Then there is someone from this pulpit who has talked about that it is important for freedom to maintain the constitutional protection of the supreme law. Actually, I don't understand. For me, freedom is about you being able to do what you want, as long as you don't restrict the freedom of others. This is just something that limits the freedom of others. It sets some limits for who can take over the property, and at what price. Then you also talk about the ideals from when the liberals had their spearheads. Then one can mention two of the three most important pillars from, for example, the French Revolution. One is freedom – to do what you want without others coming and restricting freedom. Number two is equality -- not as in economic equality, but just like the law, that by being a citizen and being a human being you have some rights, not by being born first or last in a group of children. Then I also have to say that there has been a very conservative argument today. All of them, most of them who have defended the law of nobility as it stands with the law of the Constitution, have said that yes, but Norway is a good country to live in, things have worked well. However, it becomes completely pointless to equate the constitutional protection of the state with the fact that Norway is a good country to live in. Norway has been a good country to live in for quite a long time, and yet we have modernised our legislation as we evolve. When the representative Kolberg says that if we liberalize this a little bit, it might go well in family terms for a certain time, but then all of a sudden the big money comes in, and then we get it terrible – I don't believe it. In the Western world where I come from, you see all along the coast companies that are run by families for generations, who are community builders, who create jobs, and who really care about the inheritance they manage and very much want to pass on to the next generation. Another example of something that you have liberalised, for example: property market, then you had big problems, but then you liberalized, and what is the result? Well, Norway is one of the countries in the world where most people have the opportunity to own their own homes. Then to the representative of Storberget. I'm not saying the farmers are not innovative. I think perhaps the representative Storberget addressed it most to the Progress Party – perhaps also to my post. I'm saying the opposite. I'm saying that I think farmers have great innovation power, but I think they're meeting a code that makes innovation power a little limited. So I'm not saying, as the representative Kolberg suggests, that the agricultural industry is the same as all other industries, and that we have to think the same way. No, I recognize that the agricultural industry is obviously different from other industries, including in terms of food. But there's a similarity to other industries, and that's that someone wants to invest in the industry, must be something positive. That's what I'm saying. The alternative seems very strange. I think it would be very strange if the representative Kolberg and the Labour Party believed that the fewer people who want to invest in agricultural property, the better. Finally, I would just like to thank you for a good debate. I think it's been fun. In particular, I have to say that it is a pleasure to hear Mr Lundtigen's contribution. No one should at least doubt that he says what he means, and that he does not obscure his message. He also said in his last post that yes, the right to vote limits freedom, and that is good. It limits the access to credit for the farmers, and that's good. At least then you're perfectly clear that you can have a right-left debate, as the representative of Kolberg suggested that we had. I think that's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e479	The word'satisfactory' is probably reserved for occasions other than this debate, to be quite honest, but I think it has been a lot of good stuff. I draw myself mainly because of Trine Skei Grande's posts -- now she left the hall -- to say that I agree with her in that I held a very good review of the history and progress of liberalism, which she, with good reason, should be completely united in, which she also said she was. It documented first and foremost how the Left, Labour and SV are parties with historically quite similar roots, and that it must be a historical mistake that the Left in Norway is currently on the right side and the Progress Party, where they are strictly drawn in a historical sense not belonging to the home. But if she listened well after, I did not try to connect it directly to this case, but said it as a passerby at the end of my post. Because if one were to argue completely liberally, to say the least, it is not obvious that one should argue for the right of nobility. But nobility and occupation have nevertheless achieved some important things that are important in a liberal society in Norway, namely a responsible management of land and perhaps the most reasonable equivalent distribution of power and property in Norway. I think that if you're never so liberal, it's sometimes important to focus on whether something has worked well or not in a society. Odelsrechte has been demonstrably effective in managing agricultural property in Norway. I also thought a few of the arguments that are now being used are not good enough. It's not just in the valley trough that there's a challenge when the garden is going to go from one generation to the next. It is in Sogn and Fjordane, where I have grown up, and in Akershus County, where I am now cage. They are speechless, the conversations I also know through friends and others about the situation around this. But one has to ask with a little realism: would it be easier in a system of market-based trading of curtains? Would the conversations and the life situations be easier if the dishes were not there for the individual? Dear you, I think it would have been a lot tougher around the kitchen tables around a set without dishes, but with many wishing to drive on. Now there is the right, but not the duty. It is obvious that it is not the legal, but the culture and expectations that are the big problem many places. There we have a common responsibility far beyond what we legislate, to do something about it, and as I know, there can be a challenge for many places in agriculture in Norway. Someone says that earlier the earth was a matter of power distribution -- now it's a matter of producing food. The earth is still a part of power, but not as decisive. Producing more food is important, but I think we can make it quite clear that there's a lot of other things on the list before the nobles and the caste law to be able to produce more food in Norway in the years to come. Some of these actions are discussed in other contexts in this room during the next few weeks. Finally, the debate on Europe. I thought the last part of the post to Trine Skei Grande was very good, where she went through the threat to many liberal values in Europe. Now I'm a little uncertain about who it was, if there were actually others here who took it up, but it was just as well a good defense against the authoritarian tendencies we can see in countries like Russia and Turkey, or for that matter Hungary, Slovakia and Poland, or by the emergence of right-wing extremities, extravagant forces in Western Europe. But no sensible analysis of the liberal society in Europe and the individual's freedoms and justices can be carried out today without addressing the second major threat to many individuals today, namely the violent economic crisis we have experienced, the mass unemployment that has grown up over 30-40 years, and the increasing social differences that are so closely related to it. In southern European countries, it is common for up to one of two young people aged 20 to 30 to go without work and without training. It's devastating to their freedoms and possibilities. It's created a new group of people who have jobs, but who are poor. Countries such as the United States and Germany have barely had real wages growth in 15–20 years, which means that very many people, many families, have not taken part in economic growth, and their financial ability to feed the family is reduced due to a lack of social mobility. Many countries in Europe have marginal, if any, social mobility, i.e. no possibility for individuals to use their talents if one comes from families with a poor background. A new report from Oxfam has just been presented to show that 2015 is the first year in modern history, that is, as long as one has measured 1 pst. of the world's population owns more than the other 99 pst. – 1 pst. own more than all of us together, and 14 individuals in the world with greater wealth than half the world's population. This all has to do with the freedom of the individual, because you have to have the right to freedom of expression and all the other liberal freedoms, but you have to have the financial ability and the basis and the possibilities to exploit them and put them into life. It's all about the threats that the liberal rights in Europe are now facing. It is precisely the large groups of people who are unemployed, who experience not to be seen, where immigration and globalisation do not reach them and do not feel that they are now largely creating the emergence of the right-wing extreme ideas. I looked at the election day measure for the Austrian elections. Among those who classified themselves as manual workers, according to the BBC, 86 pst voted. in Hofer, the extreme right candidate. It all has to do with the strong economic-social differences in Austria and with the mass unemployment that they and other countries have experienced in recent years. The two liberal perspectives, the fairly fair distribution and the individual freedoms, have their origins in the idea of the French revolution, with equality, freedom – the representative Skuttle took no more – and brotherhood, or solidarity, as one also calls the third. Connecting them together and seeing them in context -- that freedom is important, but there must be freedom for everyone, not just for the few -- that's the liberal basis of idea. Then you'll have to excuse me, President, for using Storting's chair for something that's a little bit side by side with nobility and occupation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e500	That thought also struck the president, but it was an interesting post. Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice, and gets a speaking time limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e505	The leader of the left said that the party stood for “people first”. Yes, that's exactly what we represent the majority of the committee here stands for. We stand for people first, not capital first. That's what's so sad to experience, that the Left doesn't see the contrast between different interests and balances it in another way. Skei Grande says that power is much more than owning land. I agree with that, but it's a fact that ownership gives control – gives power. And if you look around the world a little bit, you see how ownership is distributed, and how power is distributed. One should travel a little bit more around to see the alternative to what we have in Norway. The option is not provocative. Our alternative with the distribution of ownership among the many, it's tempting, not only for people in Norway, but also elsewhere. So Skei Grande says that youth feels the pressure. Yes, I also agree that many young people feel pressured to take over. And why do they do that? Because they have seen that their parents have made a difficult effort for which they have not been paid, and for which they have done so as to lay a foundation for the next generation. It's part of the core of the whole agricultural culture. One spends a lot of work and money in something that will not benefit one himself, but that will benefit the next generation. It is clear that those who have seen it feel a pressure to take over, but yet culture changes, so that one more often chooses the one who is the most interested. So the representative, Skei Grande, says that others don't come in. The essence of the price question is that the law of nobility and the law of taxation keeps prices down. They're the ones that keep them down, they're the ones that make the many come in. They have a great positive effect on keeping the price level down. This is a fatal misunderstanding by the leader of the Left. So the leader of the Left says that it is important to work for the best possible soil in operation. Yes, of course it is. But then it has to pay to use the earth. The Party of the Left must soon understand that it is the feed price that defines the value of grass and Norway is a grassland. And when it doesn't pay to grow grass, the earth isn't driven. There are simple professional economic contexts that the party will soon have to deal with. And finally: startled by the analysis of Europe – there is clearly a greater need for debate on what is happening in Europe. Economic liberalism is the cause of current developments in many EU countries. Brown extremists get ground as a result of an economic policy called market economy, called greed economy, called predatory capitalism. That's what needs to be combated. That is why we need regulation, and we need more political governance in society. This also applies to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e520	I asked for the floor again because of Mr Lundtigen's contribution. I think he had some slight insight into his argument regarding the acquisition of the right of attorney. The representative said that the family agreed on who would take over the farm. Yes, in many cases that is correct, but in my opinion that is not an argument for maintaining the right to vote. The representative Lundtigen forgets one thing that is essential in my eyes, and it is that there is no thing that has split more families than just the acquisition of the right of nobility. I have seen for myself in several cases that some noblemen have been forced to renounce their right of nobility in order to maintain peace and tranquillity in the family. That is precisely what is some of the argument that the right of the nobility should be abolished, in order to overcome such an unculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e527	I'll try to be short. I agree with the representative Lundtägen on a very fundamental thing, as he said at the end, and that is that we must have laws and rules in society. It is perfectly obvious, and we must have laws and rules based on basic democratic principles – that we have individual rights. The only thing that makes us go against the odel law is that this is a law based on privileges, and it's the privileges of the genus, and it's not to have universal rights that everyone has. Then it is basically a wrong law to have. That doesn't mean that this is going to be a legitimate space. That means that you still have rights as owner, ownership is still established. It's just that, as Trine Skei Grande also stressed, others should also have a greater opportunity to enter an industry that they want, on equal terms – and that neither genus nor genes should be a privilege in this respect. I am not going to go into the whole discussion about Europe, but I think it is interesting that at least we are discussing the liberal values in Europe. It is important to safeguard the liberal values of Europe, and it is also important to build up under the economic growth we need, with trade and with free economic development, and to fight against the forces that today challenge the liberal values of Europe. I think it's been an interesting debate, but it definitely doesn't change the position of the Left. We have always thought that privileges should not be based on privileges. You have to have universal rights, and they're going to apply to everyone, so we're going to stand firm on the point that the Odel Act is going to be out of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e538	That's part of the argument from those who want to remove the nobles and the hostages' right, which I want to comment on briefly. First of all, to the question of everyone's ability to get into agriculture and forestry: I almost think that some of the arguments tend to be an attack on inheritance as such. What controls most land and forest changes in Norway in many ways is that one is de facto in position to inherit. So I think in many ways it's going to be something artificial to think that removing nobility and the right to ride opens up so that the closest god and everyone can buy land and forest property. To the extent that it should have any meaning, what today must be the barrier for many – and will be if you go into the way of removing regulation – is that the price will actually be insurmountable, and that it is the capitals, who do not live in the towns and municipalities where these properties are, who will draw the winning weight in terms of acquiring land and forest. In this way I heard the representative Skutle say that he thinks that much of the argument from us who want to keep this institute is conservative. Then I just have to say that yes, right here I am value conservative. I believe that former representative Per Kristian Foss, quoted in the comments, had a good account of value conservatism in this regard when he said: ‘but for a conservative it seems that one thing has been for a while, that the provisions have long traditions, that the constitutional provisions have contributed to many self-owned farmers, whom we, as conservatives, greatly appreciate, and that it provides predictability for an industry and for a large population’. It's, in my opinion, a good, value-conservative argument about this. Several argue that the level of conflict in families is high because of this set of rules and the institute. I have sail experience with this. I come from a family where it has been oddly outside and gone. I have to say that I almost with horror think about what it would have been like if we hadn't had this institute and you had just had the opportunity to sell out and take a big win. I wouldn't have been a part of those demolitions among those siblings. If you really want to prevent conflicts during generational shifts in soil, forestry and agriculture, you have to be careful before you start tearing down these rules. I'm not saying that there are no conflicts – that's it – but we politicians have to consider what will cause the least conflicts. I am convinced that the level of conflict would rise to heaven in many places if you really opened up to take out the big, short-term gains. That's what we're against. We want to think in the long term. I would also like to say to what Mr. Werp pointed out, that part of the discussion around the tables in the agricultural families and the question that many farmers prefer not to have is whether someone knows who will take over. Is it going to be any better if you take away the laws of nobility? Rather on the contrary, it is – as I see it – so that, in many cases, no answer to that question actually comes to one’s attention. That's a completely different dimension. If you're looking for someone to take over your farm or your forest property, I think you have to do the opposite of what the government actually does in soil and forest policy, you have to do, among other things. make it more profitable to operate these properties, so that you have an economy to live off and an opportunity to invest in the future. So I don't think it's going to be a proper backtrace to ask the question, who's going to take over the property? Finally: especially Skei Grande, but also several others have pointed to the burden that young people feel of having to take over a property. Let me just underline: Odelslegislation therefore implies an odelsrecht and no obligation. There I fully agree with the representative, Solhjell – I think he was the one who brought this up. What makes you feel a burden by taking over a property? Are there these legal rules? No, that's what you've seen of past generation efforts and investments, the close relationship you have with the physical property, and the emotional and cultural ties that are under pressure. Many people feel that it is unpleasant, and many people find it difficult to make that choice, but it is not a choice that we make particularly easier by removing the nobility code. I insist on the words of former representative Per Kristian Foss that this is about predictability for an industry and for a large population group.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e561	It was the representative Ship I wanted to come in too. The representative referred to that there was uncertainty about taking over a farm. That is exactly what the representative Storberget says, that it is linked to the lack of financial compensation for work and capital. What is then strong, and what must be said clearly from this pulpit, is that there is some party in this room that has helped to keep the incomes of agricultural work down, that's right. The right is at the forefront of keeping income opportunities down. It is Right that has the primary responsibility – through its systematic, laborious efforts to keep revenue down – for the situation to which the representative was referred. So the representative, Werp, says that one does not now have to protect against Danish graves. No, we don't have to, but we need to have protection from capital power. One must be a realist in the world in which one lives. Private equity funds are now at large interested in investing in real estate, not least in areas that can produce food. It is predictive to have a no partial law as a corset against these capital forces – today as before. So the representative, Werp, said that the state agricultural administration was the national professional authority. That's wrong. The Odel Act is a private law. Of course, they can believe what they want about it, but the law of nobility is a law of private law. That's what I thought Right had inside. So to the representative Holthe, who says that the sale of family estates in agriculture splits families. Yes, it is true that there are many conflicts, because there are great values, there are huge values, and those values can be disposed of in the short term or in the longer term. If one then has descendants who want to dispose of them in the short term versus in the longer term, there's a conflict—soon to do it, that's what's in it all. But with the law of no part has predictability in order, and therefore my point is: The alternative to the law of no part in the case of family cranes is worse. The alternative is much worse because it has large values. Finally to Elvesuen, who says that the odel law is the privileges of the relative. The Odel Act is a right to take back the farm on the odel or a right to get it at a reasonable price. But if we're going to use Left's rhetoric and call it a privilege, in the sense that it's a privilege, then it's a privilege because it's done a lot of work and capital that hasn't gotten its return in the short term, but it gets it in the longer term. [[President clubs]] The Ministry of Finance is pleased with the law of the state, because it preserves the values... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e574	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e577	It was the last speech that made me take the floor. I have followed the debate for a long time, and I really wonder how the majority of the population is in relation to part of the situation in Norwegian agriculture, but when the representative Lundtägen can make himself say that it is the Right who has held back the development of agricultural incomes, it is actually so wrong that at least you have to point it out. I'm also going to go into a lot of other things in the debate. As far as I know, the only time one in Norway has reached the income target for agriculture, under Minister of Agriculture Johan C. Løken – that is the only time one has reached the income target, and it was actually with a Minister of Agriculture from the Right. In the last three years of the Right–Fremskrit party government, income development in agriculture in Norway has been better than ever — and it has been much better than under the red-green government, which had been in eight years’ time. I want to talk a little bit about what has been the subject of the debate, because it has gone on again that the Right also has to talk about that agriculture has been good in terms of productivity. We have said that over and over again, at least I have said this time and again from this pulpit. Agriculture has extremely good development in productivity, but then, in fact, the Storting must also take on what it means. High productivity means that the farm is getting smaller and smaller every year, and that is what we see in agriculture. If you don't have the opportunity for alternative employment near the farm, the farm becomes a mess, because it's not that property today is the foundation of power and position in society. It's fundamentally changed. And that's what the representative Anders Werp said in his speech, that today, in fact, the youth sees that it's about using their knowledge, their competence and what you have inside your head, to get a good life. And we're very happy that we're there, but the reality is that when we go back to agriculture, the number of farms is going down sharply. They go down year by year no matter what the Storting does — even the escalation decision in the 1970s gave only a tiny little flare a year or two in the reduction of the number of uses, and so it continued. The representative of Storberget was concerned with his own experience. I have about the same background as the representative Storberget. I've taken over a property myself, and I dismissed no part of it. Unfortunately, my father died early, so I was asked if I would take over, and then you're in on all the other driving forces to take over. There are strong family ties here – we regulate one of the areas of society that may have the strongest commitment to actually maintaining some traditions. And they're going to be there anyway – and that's where I agree with the representative Storberget – but I didn't write myself down, and then I obviously sat down with my siblings and said that the development in agriculture is like that if I'm going to move home again, I'm going to take over the share you've also taken over, because otherwise it's not relevant to move home again. We agreed on that. It's okay, it's okay. These are family relationships that can be solved in completely different ways than using an odd right. But back to productivity. What's creepy about the whole way we regulate agriculture is that we hit the districts that need agriculture as the only job. That's where the farms get laid. That's where you don't get the dynamic you need to create full-time employment in agriculture. There is no problem in Akershus. There is no problem around the strong regional centres, because farms are an excellent place to live and provide an opportunity for additional income when you have a job as a main job. There is, of course, the situation in Norwegian agriculture today. It's not like you have a main job on the farm, and then you look for a job to complete. It's turned his head around. Active agriculture depends to a large extent on having alternative employment in the vicinity, and the Storting should focus on what is needed to create the opportunities to maintain agricultural activity far away from the regional, strong employment areas. There the farms fall, and the Stortinget speaks as if you can take over a use of 35-40 goals and think you can live on it. There is no youth who will today. It's not going to be in the future either. And, since I have the floor first, I think you should divide the agriculture. In fact, agriculture consists of two parts. One is soil, the other is forest. There's a total value chain in forestry that says we have to start deregulating the property market in forestry if we're to realise the potential of Norwegian forestry. And it's hugely important, both in climate context and not least in value creation contexts all around the country. It is that resource in Norway that has the greatest potential to create jobs and jobs around the many small municipalities in the country. And the fact that in such debates one totally ignores the forest industry and just focuses on agriculture is a paradox, I think. Finally, I would like to comment on the representative Lundtegen when he talks about unlimited ownership. I don't know what he's really adding to it. Property law itself has strong incentives — very strong incentives — to leave the property in a better condition than it was when you took over it yourself. It lies in the property itself. Whether it is a younger generation to take over, or whether to sell, the owner is now earned to manage the property sustainably and on the basis of sound, well-founded principles that increase the value of the property. It is not that society does not regulate how properties can be used today, it is regulated by the Law on Planning and Building — there are a number of laws governing what society thinks is the sensible development of property — and there are no owners in Norway who do not. So bringing out that the law of nobility should also restrict ownership in a sensible way, I can't see. Besides, the law of no part is still going to be a law. What we're discussing is whether it should have a constitutional protection, and I see no reason at all why it should be a constitutional protection of it, as it is today. But I do think that the Stortinget should also be realistic about what is the situation in Norwegian agriculture. It's about trying to create opportunities for those who really want to bet, and it's what the last three years show, compared to what we saw after eight years with the Center Party in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, it's that it actually works out there, that you start focusing on giving opportunities to those who actually want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e594	The representative of Gundersen feels very uncomfortable to hear facts undefiled from the Parliament's pulpit regarding the incomes of agriculture. I can understand that, because the Right has, of course, held back income opportunities for agricultural work on every possible occasion. In terms of prices, it has been entirely systematic to be on the side of those who want to weaken import protection. As far as target prices are concerned, a lot of people have been systematically involved with those who want to keep target prices down, and in the case of government budget appropriations, it has been the same. That's the fact, it's reached people, and then you have to bear to hear it. Then it's referred to that the income target was reached under Johan C. The onion. Yeah, that's right. In 1982 it was probably. It has to be assessed in due course. I just want to say it briefly: right should have had a Johan C. The onion in the main hall today. That person is missing. For me as a center party, it's a big waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e601	Martin Kolberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e604	It's going to be very short, and it's to this that was said that property power has changed significantly. Yes, thank you for that, and at least it's not Right to Honor, considering how it's evolved in Norwegian society. I just want to say before this debate is over, that the greatest attack on the exact property and the importance of the property is the government's attempt to undermine the pricing of the concession provisions. There, the Storting and the Control Committee have made clear their comments, but both the former and the current Minister of Agriculture ignore this and send out circulars that clearly undermine the law at this point – clearly. So the property power and the relationship to it, to which Gundersen referred, there's every reason to have heavy attention in relation to these questions. Had not the law been as strong as it is, we would have had even greater difficulties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e611	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e625	The majority of the Committee supports the Constitutional Law on Food Soil, i.e. amending the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 112. Today it says: ‘Natural resources shall be made available from a long-term and comprehensive view which ensures this right also for future generations.’ In the proposal there is only a strengthening of this sentence by adding ‘included food resources’ or on book targets: ‘including food resources’. Then the paragraph becomes like this: ‘The natural resources, including food resources, shall be made available from a long-term and comprehensive approach that ensures this right also for future generations.’ So in Norway today, there's only 3 pst. of the land area that is cultivated and it is much smaller than in countries with which it is natural to compare. Over the past 50 years, over 1 million deer of cultivated and arable land have been redispatched in Norway. In the last five years, nearly 15,000 dean have been redispatched every year. The area around the largest cities and towns has the most productive food soil, and this is also where the degradation pressure is highest. By 2030 the world will have to produce 50 pst. more food than today. Then Norway will have to take care of the food we already have. Taking care of food is taking care of the most important resource to secure future generations of food. Difor supports the proposal in the Committee to strengthen the protection of food resources in Grundlova § 112. I see that the Left wrote in its comment that they are very for food soil, and a reference to a Document 8 proposal for which they have received multiples. I thought it was good, but I thought, when they're so busy with food, that they should support this proposal as well. Now it's like the representative Abid Q. Raja from the left doesn't have the opportunity to be here, and he's the one who wrote this comment. But he also represents Akershus, as I do, and it's the county that has the best food soil and the biggest pressure to build it. However, if you do a little work on it, you can double it, for example. the population of Ski without taking off either the land or the landline. So that's a possibility. I think that the local politicians in this press would enjoy this strengthening of the Constitution. Now it does not seem that there is a constitutional plurality for this, but nevertheless I think there is a strong signal when the plurality is in favour of the proposal. The Right Party and the Progress Party have their own comments and oppose the proposal. I think they'll do something for themselves. But I want to add: former Prime Minister Willoch from Right has said that we need to take better care of the food soil. He thinks that ‘development interests are often more short-term in the way of thinking than society as a whole is allowed to be, and the protection of arable land is linked to population growth, increased need for food and climate change that will change the world’s food production’. And he also thinks that on a general basis. ‘is unfortunate in making unnecessary degradation of food soils and believes that national policy guidelines are necessary because this cannot be left to the municipalities’. I agree with former Right-Minister of State. For this reason, I would like to say to the Right – there are a few hours left for us to vote on this, and there is not a new sentence in the Constitution, it is a little bit of a change in existing constitution – that it would be fine if we could get a real plurality of this and be together to protect the food soil for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e663	I'll be very short. Kåre Willoch is a wise man. We agree with him that it is important to protect food soil, but sometimes there are other interests that need to be weighed up against it. We're not going to go in for a foundational ceremony today, and we're not going to change our mind for the next few hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e670	This case, which is a proposal for the protection of food resources, seems superfluous because the food resources already have a protection in the Constitution of Section 112, which reads: ‘Everyone has the right to an environment which ensures health and to a nature in which production capacity and diversity are maintained. The resources of nature shall be made available on the basis of a long-term and comprehensive consideration to safeguard this right also for the posterity. Citizens have the right to know about the state of the natural environment and the effects of planned and implemented interventions in nature, in order to safeguard their rights under the preceding subparagraphs. The authorities of the State shall take action to implement those basic principles.’.» The food resources are part of nature's resources in line with other natural resources and, as set out in the Basic Law, the resources of nature shall be made available on the basis of a long-term and comprehensive consideration that safeguards the right to production capacity of the offspring. Food soil is a scarce resource as a result of natural conditions, such as topography and the fact that we are heading far north. It just makes that 3 pst. of the land area of Norway may be used as cultivated land and that only 30 pst. of which, in turn, is suitable as cereals. The best food soil is around towns and cities, and the need for land for housing, industrial and industrial development, railways and roads has led to a long-term reduction in the cultivation of land in these areas. Food soils have a great value, but also food soils need to be balanced against the other needs of society. Solutions are in place to ensure a wider range of societal interests, including the relocation of food land from farm to farm or new cropping areas. The Progress Party considers that a satisfactory balance of interests is ensured by ordinary sectoral policies and legislation. It is not desirable to bring the Supreme Court into a concrete assessment of land and agricultural legislation against such a provision as it proposes. With what I initially said about the fact that food resources already have a constitutional protection with other resources, and given that sectoral policies will be able to provide food resources in a good way, the Progress Party will not recommend that proposals for extra strong protection in the Constitution be accepted and will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e690	There is a broad political consensus that we should have food production in Norway and that we should have active agriculture in all parts of the country. But if we're to discharge our responsibility to produce food, we have to be careful and conscious about what is a prerequisite for food production, our food soil. In an increasingly evolving society, managing responsibility becomes an increasingly important pillar, and for the Christian People's Party, soil protection is an important part of this management responsibility. Managing responsibility is about securing future generations the opportunities and rights that we have today. It's about value creation, and it's about food security. Soil degradation is an irreversible process. Over the past 50 years, over 1 million deer have been disposed of in Norway, and most of the re-disposal has gone down on the very best food soil, i.e. cultivated land. Development seems to continue. Over the last 20 years, some 16 000 deer have been built each year. Cultivated and arable land is a limited resource. There are different estimates of how long it takes to produce soil of such high quality that it qualifies for food, but some actually indicate as high a number as 1,000 years. In view of this, the re-disposal of food for other purposes is a question that cannot be easily addressed. Of the total area of our country, it's just 1.3 pst. qualified for food soils. Nevertheless, the large area is redispatched every year. Over the period 2009–2014, about 43 000 deer cultivated land were redispatched on a national basis. This is equal to 43 square miles of our best soil. So we know that something redisposable is inevitable in terms of infrastructure such as railway, road and other major transport projects. There will be cases where re-disposal is absolutely necessary, but we have to have a clear expectation that large amounts of food soil will not be re-disposaled because we have to choose the simplest solution. Re-disposal of food soils is not something we can take lightly. It's one of our most important resources, and how we manage this, is an inheritance that we give to the next generation. For every deer that is redispatched, we lose 1 deer of food for all future. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the Constitutional Law, so that the protection of food soils is given an explicit place in the Constitution. The proposers point out that on 25 May 1992 the Stortinget adopted a provision on environmental protection such as § 110(b) of the Constitution. The protection of food resources was not specifically mentioned during the examination of that proposal. The proposers believe that the management of the basis for food production represented by the food resources is values of such a long-term nature that they justify being explicitly mentioned in the Constitution. The Christian People's Party agrees. Then I hear the arguments against legislating this. I want to be clear on and on behalf of the Christian People's Party acknowledge that one can of course be concerned with soil protection even if one is not necessarily for a separate constitutional provision. It is legitimate to prejudice the importance of soil protection, while believing that this is best addressed by sectoral legislation. I think that should be recognised. That is why I would like to express some understanding of the arguments that are moving towards the fact that it is not necessarily in our constitutional tradition to include sectoral policy objectives, which can be said to be added here. This type of issue can also be addressed by ordinary sectoral policies and legislation. We fully agree with that. But with equal rights, it can be argued that because the administration of the law must be long-term, because the degradation of food resources is irreversible, and because food security and sustainable food management need to be seen in a generation perspective, this is so important that it defends its own constitutional protection. This is where the Christian People's Party has landed. That is why we support the proposal. In addition, we know that agriculture performs many functions, including food production. It's about recreation, ecological functions, wildlife, climate and environment. It's about having a consciousness about how we manage the soil and green structures from a generation perspective. This will be particularly important in the future when we also need to balance this with all the necessary expansions and major transport projects, because we know that it will also be built in the future. It must be built, and it must be built. It is also a responsibility to the next generations that we develop and maintain efficient and modern roads and railways – a good transport system for those who come after us. But it has to happen with the necessary awareness that re-disposal of food soil is irreversible. It has to happen with respect and consciousness. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the Constitutional Law on the Protection of Food Earth Resources. We believe that this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e716	Norway has less than 2 fully cultivated soils per capita. As if that's not enough, a lot of this earth is very thin. It lies far north, it lies toward mountains, and one can only grow grass for animal feed. So, one can't grow human food. That's why securing the scarce food soil we have is an incredibly important part of our preparedness. When we use the word "food soil", it gives association to soil for food, but it also gives me associations that in the food soil it is an incredibly extensive life – life in the earth. It is uniquely extensive, with an abundance of species, which must be there and thrive there in order for the soil to have the fertility that makes it good soil. It is the most valuable earth that is being built down. That's because soil degradation to the greatest extent occurs where most live. Most people live where the climate is best, and where the soil is best. Therefore, it is a demanding conflict to settle, which needs to be regulated. The first two sentences of the Basic Law § 112 read as follows today: ‘Everyone has the right to an environment which ensures health and to a nature in which production capacity and diversity are maintained. The resources of nature shall be made available on a long-term and comprehensive basis to safeguard this right also for the posterity.» There has been increased attention to this paragraph lately, and I am very pleased about that. It's a flag paragraph, which what I'll call the deep-ecological part of the environmental movement lifts up. It has to go on, because this is something essential that we have to take care of, and it is fortunately grounded. The centre party is very pleased with the proposal we are now considering, a proposal promoted by representatives of three parties: Dagfinn Højbrätten in the Christian People's Party, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Erling Sande in the Center Party and Hallgeir H. Langeland in SV. That proposal will strengthen the protection of natural resources, by giving it the supplement — ‘including food resources’. I will be brief: I am once again very pleased with the majority in the committee, with the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. That's the same majority that we had in the previous case. I really appreciate that. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party are opposed, I see it as completely logical. It's okay. The fact that the Left does not vote in favour of the proposal, but votes against, will surprise some, because the Left calls itself an environmental party. But I would like to say it briefly and simply: the Left obviously does not include the constitutional protection of the food resources in the profile of the Left, and then you have to take note of it. But that will be surprising for many, and a glimmer of eyes, for what has been said in many contexts, should indicate that the Left had been on the team in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e736	I would like to begin by agreeing with the main lines of previous speakers' speeches, and I would like to thank the Greens on behalf of the Greens for promoting this proposal in the last period, when we did not sit on the Stortinget. It gives us the opportunity to have this important debate here today. Only 3 pst. of the area of Norway is arable agricultural area and more and more agricultural land disappears for housing, roads and other purposes. The best food soil, which several speakers have spoken about, is often around towns and cities, and therefore the agricultural area in these areas is under very strong pressure today. Taking care of the food soil is taking care of the earth's most important resource. It's about something as basic as securing food supplies for future generations. This is about a resource that is initially a conditional renewable resource, upon which we rely to provide food, but which is now becoming a limited resource because we build it down, we consume it. Soil is not the same type of restricted resource as other limited resources, such as oil and gas. Food soil is a non-replaceable resource. There are no alternatives to food soils. We're totally dependent on food in 10 generations, in 20 generations, in 50 generations. So it can't be a dangerous political way to say that we're just going to build down a little bit, and then we're satisfied. We have to stop building food soils. That is why, in the Green Party, we believe that the proposal under consideration today is a natural extension of the Constitution's environmental paragraph 112. This will be a strong confirmation of the importance of soil protection in Norway. One of the most important societal tasks is to ensure food security for the population. Therefore, food land must initially be fully protected, regardless of whether it is the construction of kindergartens, dwellings or roads that threaten to confiscate that land. The main challenge with the loss of food soil is that almost always there are good intentions and good purposes that are the background for soil redisposal. There is already agreement on the Stortinget that we should not build up food soils in Norway to a very large extent. The size has decided that soil protection should be strengthened. The Government is obliged to follow up those objectives. Nevertheless, we have a government today that in several areas weakens the protection of food soil. Amendments to the Planning and Building Act have been proposed, including: facilitate the listing of individual buildings in agricultural and open air areas, even without informing the State or State authorities. At the same time, the government has weakened the County Opposition Authority and thus the real state protection of soil protection and the enforcement of Storting’s own wishes to prevent the degradation of food soil. On the initiative of the Greens, the Control Committee has recently asked Sanner and the Government whether they have an overview of the size of re-disposaled food soils. The answer confirms that they do not. It is uncertain how much food soil is re-disposaled in land plans, and the real extent of how much food soil is lost in Norway each year is thus quite unclear. It's alarming that we have a system that leads to the degradation of food soil, without the Storting knowing the consequences and the extent of it. Soil is a resource that several speakers have been involved in, which is completely impossible to replace as soon as it is built up. In addition to degradation, erosion, reduced biodiversity, floods and landraces, and soil pollution are among the main threats to the world's agricultural land. Agriculture performs many functions. In addition to the vital importance of food supply, it's about recreation, about ecological functions and wildlife. We know the importance of agricultural land to bind carbon and the enormous importance of soil and green structure to reduce flood damage. In particular, climate change and expected major floods and damage could become increasingly important in the future. The Constitution does not solve all problems, but it exists because it is where we are going to crush all our key principles, rights and obligations, which must be followed up in other laws and practices. Food soils are as valuable as very much other things that have been mentioned. It's one of the very special, absolutely vital resources that require their own protection. The Greens therefore support the proposal to strengthen the protection of food resources in the second sentence of Section 112 of the Constitution, first paragraph, so that the paragraph should be replaced by the following: ‘The resources of nature, including food resources, shall be made available on a long-term and comprehensive basis to ensure this right also for the offspring.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e765	For the Left, soil protection is a prerequisite for future food production. The left is actively working on all fronts for enhanced soil protection and to ensure protection of productive food soils against irreversible changes. In this way, it is natural to refer to Document 8:13 S for 2013–2014, on a comprehensive soil protection plan, where a unanimous increase, on a proposal from the Left, decided to ask the government in appropriate form to submit proposals to the Storting for a soil protection strategy. However, we have no faith that the proposal for a clarification or extension of the Basic Law § 112 will have any meaning whatsoever for soil protection and cultivated land, it appears more in the category “good to have”. On the same grounds, we also agree to include new provisions in the Basic Law on the Bank of Norway as a central bank and krona and ear as a monetary unit, proposals to be addressed later today. There are proposals to amend the Constitution that will have no practical significance. This position can actually be supported by looking at the current wording of § 112 of today's Constitution, which states: ‘The resources of nature shall be made available on a long-term and comprehensive basis to safeguard this right also for the posterity.’ The majority of the control committee will be to add a small supplement to ‘Natural resources’, namely ‘including food resources’. Should § 112 of today have any real significance, the Basic Law should be able to stop oil drilling in vulnerable areas or dumping mining waste in our fjords – things that several of the same parties are currently engaged in to expand § 112 with a formulation on food soil, absurdly, are the followers of. On the basis of principle, the Left believes that the Constitution should be a law in which the various paragraphs and wordings should have a real meaning, and will therefore go against the proposal to amend § 112 and later on today also go against the proposals on new § 33, on the Bank of Norway as a central bank, and on new § 38, on the crowns and ear as a Norwegian currency unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e777	The key argument for SV for why we support it and, to the extent that it was among the proposers when it comes to this proposal, is the simple fact that food resources are a fundamental value in a society, such as natural resources. It therefore belongs naturally to the home of that Constitutional Paragraph. And then I'm going to add that in addition, for both of them, it's a development where the resources are under pressure, and where the strong population growth we're going over the next decade is going to put them under pressure, while on a global basis we need to take care of both our natural and food resources. We therefore found it natural that it is part of the Constitution. I must also say that I regard it as very positive that a clear majority in the Committee has supported it, and that it is going to receive as much support in the Storting today as it gets. It is important to express the political will behind the proposals, in my view, even if they will fall. So I'm just going to say that I think the left has a sufficiently consistent argument, because I've noticed the same thing, that one goes against those paragraphs with the argument that it won't have any practical significance. But if it really was consistency, you might ask why the Left actually is for § 112 in all, if it's that they think that that paragraph can't stop oil drilling outside of the Lofoten and therefore shouldn't stand, and that taking in food resources doesn't make any difference. So I'm a little in doubt -- we have the situation today that the Constitution's spirit, the way the Constitution is formulated, cannot be used in most cases in very specific cases. The idea is that it's Basic Law, and by expressing something that doesn't necessarily change the daily case-law of the individual cases, but one expresses the importance of something, the duration of something. This is why, among other things: Now all the game, except left, if I'm not mistaken, that wants to take in Norway Bank. So I don't have anything against that foundation, but I might not think it's completely consistent, because if someone really had such a view of the Constitution, one had to do a little bit harder with the paragraphs that already exist there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e786	I'm going to continue a little bit where the representative Solhjell left off, because the question that Stortinget now has to present is whether we should legislate for the protection, draw this into the Constitution. Luckily – and as many people have been in it – the Stortinget has, in fact, been unanimous, just a short time ago, saying that more of our food is to be taken care of, and actually seen the urgent need that is out there. I'll come back to it a little bit later. But the question is, at least, one, too, I kept saying, Constitutional Conservatives who signed, who think we should be very careful about changing the Constitution, we should be very careful about including creti and platitude in the Constitution, because then, at my discretion, we will be able to risk getting it out – questioning the appropriateness of legalising more and more policy areas. There is good reason to ask questions about, including the effect of it, which the Left's representative has been dealing with: what does this mean? I believe that there are good reasons to question whether such a grip should be done. In this case, I believe that it is right to do so, and that it will not mean watering out the provision or other types of regulation. I also believe that it would be wrong to say that dragging the food tank into this paragraph would have no effect. First of all, I believe that seas in individual cases can have an effect, sail if they are not specifically authorised in an action or a response. But it lies there, and at the end of the day, there can be an interpretation that makes a court fall upon a perhaps more food-friendly decision. But the most important link to this is, in my view, the fact that the need to protect food soil is so clearly marked that it is actually taken into account in the Constitution, and that it has an impact on policy and on those who are required to design laws and regulations, but also make concrete political decisions related to it. It may take time, but it has a meaning for what kind of reasoning we display relating to both individual matters and general rules such as political practitioners, either local, regional or central, I am convinced. Then I believe that what is moving towards this – and I hope that other parties, too, will be able to support this, particularly in the context of the rather constructive process we have had, and in particular the proposal for Document 8 to which the Left referred – is in particular the concern raised by the scarcity of this good, and the irreversible. You're talking about that 3 pst. of the land area in Norway is suitable for cultivation. We know that what is the cornerstone of our maritime supply is that we can have a certain production of grain. If you go into it, you can see, in my opinion, that it is almost critical – it is a smaller area than the municipality of Oslo that is available to grow cereals in Norway. And if we talk about maritime supply, crisis preparedness, this is being highlighted as one of the weaknesses of the situation in Norway, and that we are not well equipped to the extent that we should have been threatened with maritime supply of food resources. That's too many maybe quite unimaginable, but many situations have taught us to think exactly the unmistakable. So the scarcity of this resource is talking about admitting protected legislating. I also believe that the pressure on this resource is an argument for codifying it in the Constitution. Because there is a considerable pressure, and we know that both in the case of transport projects and also commercial actors – and that is, I kept saying, a link to the previous debate – is the desire to take over land and forest not always motivated by the desire to run land and forest. These include: for other, more capitalising and remunerative reasons. So the pressure won't be anything less than what we've seen. I have mentioned the irreversible, and, in my opinion, we see – and this also showed the debate last time we debated the protection of food soils – that legal protection is also needed to get serious into this. Finally, I would like to point out that one of the reasons why I think it is right to do this now is that this is also a political area where it is possible to achieve something. It's not like there's a train just running, so it's just a tabloid rule; here it's possible to achieve something, and the experience of the last few years has shown it to the full. Only a few years ago, there was a red-green government re-disposal of food, which was up to 14,000 jobs a year, and action was taken – both with a red-green government, and I'm going to be so rude as to say blue-blue too, so this has more success – and then one has been able to halve the red-green regime down to over 6,000 jobs this year. That's good, but it shows that it's politically possible to do this if you want to. What's even more uplifting is that all the big parties chose to end unanimously on the soil protection strategy that was adopted recently – it's very positive – and to set a more ambitious target than the government wanted, i.e. at 4,000 jobs a year in redispatch. So I'm drawing it up, because I think it's also an argument for – when you see that it's possible to achieve something – that you also clearly mark it in the basic legal texts that both lawyers and politicians have to deal with. That is why I think that is a good reason to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e805	It's been said very well and very much reasonable here, so I'm not going to take the time out very much. But I have to say a little because I am the only one of the representatives who have submitted the proposal, which is left in the Chamber. As I said before, we know it's at the base of 3 pst. of the arable land area in Norway — and it is in the lower edge. We have to notice that, but 3 is an easy number to remember. Only one third of this again is it possible to grow cereals. We have a lot of mountains, and we have a lot of forest. We have difficult topography and geographical conditions that make it impossible to grow anything anywhere in our country. We're not seagoing with food in our country. We import more than we produce, and the cost of growing the land in this squirted country is high. We should have made better use of the pasture to exploit our grassland, but challenged by the fact that importing power feed from abroad is more efficient and cheaper. The use of the land is also challenged by an increased stock of predators, which makes many farmers feel that it is too demanding to use livestock. The re-disposal of food for other purposes takes place largely near towns and cities where most people live. There's a lot of people who've been around. The paradox is that these are places where people have historically settled just because of the opportunity to cultivate the earth. It's a paradox. There are some people who think it's as good to buy food abroad as to break up growing the land here to land, but fortunately, there's still a conscious part of the population who sees the value of growing food in our own country. Increasingly, it is now in having a kitchen garden on the veranda and hens in the backyard. It's very nice, and it's probably a little bit of a food supplement, and maybe it can also help raise the individual's awareness of how important the food soil is, but we need more than peanuts. We cannot – neither morally, ethically, nor economically – rely only on imports of food in the future. With the population development we have in the world, and the climate challenges we face, we don't just have a right, but we have a duty to produce what we can do. Then we have to be aware of how we use the stains we have with food soil in this country – because we have little food soil in this country compared to other countries in Europe. Fortunately, the awareness of the protection of food soils has increased in recent years, and that's good. Skating governments have increased their attention to soil protection, as the representative Storberget was about, and the media have also taken an interest in the matter. But it's still being built up too much and at too high a pace. In Dagbladet we can read that the former Prime Minister of the Right, Kåre Willoch, is concerned about the food soil. He believes that national policy guidelines are necessary because they cannot be left to the municipalities alone. With this proposal, we want to give municipalities a stronger backbone in planning. Because it's in the local local government that the problem is being tested. Local communities around our country are committed to facilitating housing development, attracting new entrepreneurs and speeding up the development of transport. It's like a heavy fight at the local level to be the one that fights for the food world. Nobody wants to be hanged against business development, housing development or better roads and railways. Therefore, we need to be central to providing strong protection for the very food soil, so that a local person can have the Constitution itself on his side when a fighter fights for the earth. The protection of food soil is so important that we think it's quite natural that it becomes part of the Constitution. This will mean that both local and state planning authorities will have to look at areas other than food land when planning new development. I'll give you an example. In Hadeland it is built the way, new rv. 4th@item: inlistbox A lot of hate landings are happy about it. And those who come from Raufoss, Toten and Gjøvik are also very happy that there is a four-field road across Hadeland. That this road is run across the village on the finest food soil, probably not all seem to be as nice. There's been a lot of headshaking of it. But often it is that not until road development is started, it is shaken on the head and pointed out the madness in laying a path on the best food soil. I'm afraid it's like this. This road has been planned for several decades, and the road pick unfortunately bears the mark of the thinking from decades back. I am not complaining on the way or that it came, because it was wanted, but I am very concerned that we have to learn from the projects we see that we might have to do differently now before it is too late. That is why this proposal is so important. I'm going to include another example from this way. At this service, the state’s own authorities have chosen to build up a large rest and rest area up to the age of eleven – on food soils. And it's not planned decades ago. It should be completely unnecessary to place a rest area on the best food soil. For approx. 15 target food soils could be grown to at least 15,000 breads each year for all years to come. There could have been no one here who has reflected on the ethics of laying a large rest area on the most fertile soil in the valley when there are other places along the track with mountain terrain where the trailer drivers could have spent the night or tourists ate their food package – they could also have a view. Such examples are not just paradoxes. It's very serious! We need a basic law protection for the food soil to avoid such a lack of consciousness. We can't afford to think that it's not so dangerous to build down 5 goals here or 15 goals there. We know that each government boasts of how much road and railway it builds – that is. Today's government boasts how much of the red-green government's national transport plan it follows. We are pleased, but I still expect that next year's National Transport Plan will take soil protection even more seriously and give signals that we need to take more account of future developments. It must also apply to the expansion of dwellings and commercial buildings on food land. I expect more stringent soil protection since a unanimous increase has been made in order for the government to promote a soil protection strategy on the initiative of the Left, as mentioned earlier today. That's a sensible decision. Also, on the basis of this strategy, I think it is very alarming that in this setting, the Left believes that basic law protection, protection by law, of the food soil will not have any meaning for soil protection and cultivated land, but appears to be more of the category "good to have". I have problems understanding that the Left therefore believes that protection in law, even in the Constitution, should not mean anything. I think it's sad. What the Storting has been invited to do here is to protect the life base of future generations rather than short-term profit. We don't grow food in our country for fun. It's future for our children this is about. If we don't have land to grow food on, it's fine not to take care of old forests or rare species that can't be eaten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e849	As I said in my first post, it is actually a pretty strong signal when the majority of people in the room today go in to strengthen the food resources by adding it to the Constitution, so that we can change the paragraph to read "Natural resources, including food resources". I think it's very good, and I would still want it to have a constitutional plurality. Almost everyone who's been up here and talking today has said that they're for food. The left has said that there is a provision for food production. He'll heal some of us. The progress party also said that they were positive to food soil, and they say that the paragraph already stands. Yes, and that's what I mean, the paragraph says there, but when we're busy strengthening the food soil for future generations, we're strengthening it by changing that paragraph with the two words. So I'm actually asking everyone to join in today's proposal, including the Left, which says they're both an environmental party and agro-food busy, so that we put in that supplement -- including the food resources -- so that we can secure future generations of food.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e854	It is certainly the case that there are several wordings in the Constitution that we should have taken up – and for that matter removed. For the left, there is no goal of putting as much as possible into the Constitution. We need a great deal of respect for the Constitution. We've had a major constitutional debate in the last year, and I don't want to say that it was the Left who proposed most of the changes to the Constitution. So it's also the case that today's proposal we have an opportunity to discuss today. There is no occasion today to make proposals to make changes other than those we are dealing with. It is therefore true that the Left is completely consistent today – for food resources, for business framework conditions, for Norway’s Bank, for crowns and ears. In fact, the other parties are voting in every direction here today, and that is probably the least consistent thing in today's debate – you others about it. Just respect for the Constitution I think it is worth stopping at, after, among other things. the posts of the representative Storberget. It is good that the Workers' Party will protect food soils and food production – for all – but in most of the country's 428 municipalities, as it is still presumptuous, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party have power and the rapporteur, and it is therefore their politicians who each year, thousands of times, decide to build up food soil. What you will do now, in practice, is oblige your own representatives to break the Constitution thousands of times a year. I understand the intention, that there is a desire to protect the food soil, and that the Constitution should provide protection, but in practice local politicians – and indeed the Stortinget, who are more likely to understand state regulation plans to build roads and railways – will also have to break the Constitution. And what is the consequence of breaking the Constitution? None of the representatives here have mentioned today. I think a danger too easily passes that debate on what one imposes on one's own politicians. With respect to reporting: I have been in the local government for many years for the Left and voted – probably most of all – against building up food soils, and there has always been a majority, with the votes of the Labour Party, to build up food soils. So this isn't going to happen, Agent Gunvor Eldegard. When the Workers' Party goes so high on the track here, then you also have to have control in your own row, and here it cracks from the local government and up to a few in the big group that means this. In any case, life and learning must be followed up before using the Basic Law as a hallowed protection for the nation and food production. To the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien and the Central Party: I think it's a way to go. I have never experienced having the Senterparte in my back in all the matters we have discussed locally about soil protection. This is also linked to practice. Before we adopt a constitutional protection, we should at least ensure that our own politicians locally dare to stand for what they think is central. I also think we should discuss, as I mentioned in my previous post, how often is there a debate about drilling in the Lofoten and the West Pole, or dumping mining waste? It may happen once in a hundred-year perspective that we have the big debates. So we're not going to make a foundational law, but a spade roof every day, almost where it disappears, so we're going to make a foundational law. Honor be! For the left, we are well represented in local politics in voting down the proposal to take food soils. Welcome after! We have to start there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e874	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e888	As the rapporteur on the matter, I would like to make a brief introduction to the matter, so the rest of those present will decide how long the discussion will be. At least we are told, as can be read in the vote, that the majority, consisting of the representatives of the Right Party, the representatives of the Progressive Party, the representatives of the Labour Party, with the exception of the representative Jette F. Christensen and the member of the Christian People's Party of the Committee, do not wish to reduce the general age of voting to 16 years. So it's an overwhelming majority that makes this proposal adjourn later today, not only because it does not bring together the required two-thirds majority, but also because it is simply a clear majority in the Storting against this. So we don't have to spend all the world's time on a proposal that has such bad prospects for adoption. I expect that representatives of the minority will briefly justify their views, and I would like to point out why we believe that the age of 18 is still a reasonable limit. I would also like to clarify a statement in the position where there is a general ban on the constitution in Germany against referendums. It became a little unsound, because there are referendums in Germany, especially at the municipal level, following the so-called citizens' initiative. So what we meant to refer to was what is considered to be part of the constitutional law in Germany, which is that the Constitution cannot be changed in any way through referendums. Then it's clear. In addition, there is a page discussion that may not have so much to do with the 16-year voting rights in Norway, but for those very interested who have pointed this out, I am happy to correct it. When the voting age was reduced to 18 years, it was a leading argument that a coordinated limit was set which meant that we were given the 18-year limit both to participate in elections to the Stortinget and to municipal government and county elections, and also that this was consistent with the general age of authority and some other important age-related rights that we achieve. The majority I represent in the committee believes that these arguments are still good. However, I have to comment on the minority when they say that time has now come to want to lower the voting age to 16 years. We see that the arguments used are that with the current school system and current training in democratic thinking, school choices, etc. the young coals are now more prepared to participate in elections. And then maybe you won't quite go into a discussion that for everyone, whether minority or majority, it will ultimately be about what we consider to be a limit of maturity. I think that discussion is a little too easy for the minority. Because it also shows that the minority, at least indirectly, is aware that there may be some people who will then pass through, who may not see the relationship between voting and the results you get, i.e. a social maturity that is desirable when you participate in society. There are also many others in the electoral population who are mentally impaired without having been deprived of the right to vote. We think that's a strange argument, because here it's talking about introducing an age criterion, while excluding others that might not follow as well, so it's going to require an individual assessment, and at least there can be no age criterion. So here I think you're taking a little bit of a mistake or arguing in a not quite relevant way. We also don't think the argument that sexual lavalry has been achieved is a good and leading principle, because it's a criminal law that targets almost everyone other than the one in question, to ensure that people are not involved in sexual activities at an early stage. So there's no assessment of his maturity. On the more imaginative side, I would also like to say that the reference to youth should be more idealistic – that is, that it was a special feature of having a low age, and that the closest given to the electoral population qualities that to date have not been seen by those over the age of 18 years – I also think it is a rather weak argument. So we've gone through the minority's arguments to the best of our knowledge and convictions, and found that none of the facts that we're referring to is essentially important when we're going to consider setting a limit on participating in the elections. It is that we have achieved a social maturity, which is also an experience-based one, that we must admit, which means that we see contexts, often a little complicated contexts, in a society that does not become easier to see these contexts in, and that, therefore, there can be no mandate — at least now — to further lower the age of voting rights. So I think I can approach the conclusion. So we don't find any of the minority's arguments good enough or heavy enough to change the age of voting from 18 to 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e909	We in the Labour Party are some of the starting points of the proposalers, that the most possible should have the right to vote in a society that has democratic governance as its objective. When people point out through elections who is to rule the country, this underscores the basic principle that all power is based on the people. This was an important argument when the age of voting rights was reduced from 20 years to 18 years in 1978. The participation of young people in society in politics and engagement is a common goal. Since 1989 there have been held school elections in front of each of the only local and municipal elections. The school selection has been given, and plays, a central role in the electoral design work of the schools. The 16-year-olds of the country are both highly qualified and highly qualified, there is no doubt, but it is a good principle that the age of authority and the age of eligibility are linked to the age of voting, and the principle that I still have to apply. It is also the case that the Election Committee discussed the issue of reducing voting age to 16 years in local elections, but the majority opposed it when they said that age of authority and age of voting should be equal. Therefore, in the Labour Party, at least parts of us, we come to oppose the proposal, not because we believe that 16-year-olds are not qualified, but because of the principle that authority ages and electoral age are to be associated with the age of voting rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e920	The proposers point out that the Norwegian electoral system is on the shoulder of a long history with an ever-increasing number of voting rights. From 1814 you had to be at least 25 years old and have property to be regarded as voting rights. Over this period — up to 1978 — voting rights have been reduced and set to 18 years. The proposers refer to the age of voting rights not being stoned. On the contrary, the framework for voting rights has been constantly evolving in two ways: by increasing the number of people voting and by increasing the age of voting rights. As the proposers see it, 16-year voting rights are a natural continuation of this development. My question must then be: will it then be natural to lower the age of voting further, and where will the limit go? The Progress Party will note that the proposers refer to a choice study from Germany. This suggests that young people vote more ideologically and less politically than others, and that this should allegedly be a reassuring basis for participating in elections. This raises the question of age groups to decide their right of choice on the basis of any sample surveys and motivations for their vote — where authorities consider some justifications to be better than others. Furthermore, it can be mentioned that Germany has a constitutional ban on referendums, precisely with background to experience from ideologically motivated voting. The Progress Party agrees with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Centre Party when they give the proposers the right to have historically different ages of voting, eligibility and authority. When these age limits were coordinated and lowered to the current level, they were justified by a fundamental need for coordination of age limits, which also solved some inconsistencies and created clarity in the rules. The Progress Party considers that the arguments relied on for the introduction of 16-year voting rights are partially lacking in relevance and are generally not significant for the development of democracy. At the same time, clear, opposing considerations that could weaken democratic legitimacy have not been discussed in detail. The authors of the motion for a resolution point out in the history of the age of voting. This is true, but when you're referring to history, you should take into account that from 1814 until today, society has changed significantly. We don't have to go far back in time to find that young people had to grow up early. I even went to sea when I was 16 at the beginning of the 1970s, and then it was necessary to adapt to the so-called adult society. At that time it was absolutely necessary – if you wanted a career at sea – to go out early because you had to get speed before going to high school. Today you go to high school first and then take further education in the maritime trades. This may also lead to a somewhat different approach to adult life than in the 1960s, 1970s, etc. The Progress Party believes that today’s voting age is fully in line with today’s social structure and should therefore not be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e935	Testing schemes with 16-year voting rights have been implemented in 20 different municipalities, both in 2011 and 2015. The 2011 experience showed that there were more 16- and 17-year-olds than 18-year-olds who voted in the relevant municipalities. So that's a positive. Norwegian society has changed significantly since the last decrease in the age of voting rights – in 1978. The question then is how to address the proposal, whether the proposal is such that the time has come to change the age of voting in the event of a roll-call vote. In the Central Party, we have been concerned that the age limits in their time were coordinated and reduced to the present level in terms of age of authority and age of voting rights and eligibility. This was justified by the fundamental need for coordination of age limits, which resolved some inconsistencies and provided clarity in the rules. That is also the simple explanation of the view of the Centre Party today. We agree with two of the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, who say that the 16-year-olds of the country are both hafile and well qualified, but we will stress that despite the positive developments, time is not in place to lower the voting age to 16 years. And we are firmly committed to the principle that the age of authority and the age of election should be linked to the age of voting. That is why the Central Party cannot endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e946	Then it's Trine Skei Grande. It doesn't look like Skei Grande's here. Then it's Board Vegar Solhell.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e949	I believe that all the representatives in the room are included in the TV series ‘Skam’, which the rest of the population does. Then one will remember that in the previous episode had Noora, the main character of «Sham», a pagan saying with Nikolai, the brother of the girlfriend, whose name is William, who has, after all, been guilty of a selection of her, at least a sexual offense, where she reads out what legal paragraphs he has broken when he has given her, taking pictures of her naked, etc. This is a drama series, not a documentary, but an expression of a completely different portrait of a 15- to 16-year-old girl than one could imagine, I think, within the popular culture of three-to-four decades ago. I'm starting out like this, because once we didn't have the right to vote. So only men had the right to vote, i.e. a few men, almost all men. So both men and women had the right to vote. Right after the war, everyone had over 21 years of voting rights. In 1967, all over 20 years of voting rights were obtained, and from 1978, all over 18 years of age. There are good arguments for it to be like this. The most important thing, in my view, is that age of voting, age of election and imagery is equal. Now there are other dimensions that a natural could connect with it, but that the three to some degree correspond is a good argument. Another argument is that the representative Holthe takes up, that is, where it should end, which is the same kind of question as the known question of a can go 10,000 meters on skates at zero — does not open. The right-hand age will never be zero. Maybe he'll be 18 years old, maybe he'll be 16 years old, maybe he'll go further down. Based on the arguments of some of the representatives, a question can be asked whether he should actually go up when reading a part of the setting, but it is a pragmatic question. For me and SV, there are three decisive arguments that we believe that we can safely reduce the age of voting to 16 years and that will be right and in line with social developments. The first is that the educational community has changed significantly since we introduced the 18-year voting rights in Norway. We have ten years of school today. We have a situation where we have the right to further training, and where the great majority benefit from that right. And after all, we have to judge a completely different level of important parts of teaching, not least perhaps targeting social and democracy education, where Norway excels in international studies of being particularly strong. The second is that we have an information and knowledge society that gives a completely different opportunity to get involved in and provide information and to easily make views available, to find out what part of mine, who people are, to spread ideas between each other – a completely different possibility for young people to do it in a quick way. The third is that we have a completely different anti-authoritarian culture in society from what we had three-four-five-six-ten years ago, where it is natural – as for Noora in «Sham» – to say the word, to decide for ourselves, to become self-employed and to participate more quickly in society with regard to what one is interested in, and in a completely different way requires it, I believe, self-employed. I thought the representative Holthe had a rather interesting post, where he nuanced that it might have been in a different way in the past – one that had to be early on growing up through working life. Nevertheless, I would say in sum that there is good reason to claim that today's 16-year-olds, on average, are probably as mature as the 18-year-olds were for a few generations ago, when it comes to taking part in the decisions of society. That is why we are calling for – and we therefore support – the proposal for a 16-year vote. Then I'll just end by reading from the Right and the Progress Party's comments in the committee setting, where they write: ‘It is of greater importance that decision-makers make it based on a certain ability to consider the effects of the electoral procedure’. It is my view that people over 16 years of age in Norway have a certain ability to think carefully about the consequences of the electoral act, but I know people in most ages who may not have the full ability to do so. Nevertheless, it is the amazing thing about democracy that all of us individuals, with our different abilities, interests and values, vote and stand. And my view and SV's is that all people over 16 years of age in Norway today are well enough rusty and mature to participate in our democracy also at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e973	Does the representative, Mr Solhjell, wish to comment on the proposal where SV is a co-rapporteur?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e976	Yeah, that was a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e981	Then the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, addressed the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e984	I want to start by thanking the government for giving us a broader experience of this matter in the autumn by testing the voting rights of 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds in 20 Norwegian municipalities. A reform in which more people are allowed to vote is one of several possible steps towards a society in which our democratic regime becomes stronger, wider and even better anchored in the people. And when the question of who the voting rights are going to apply comes up, we have to remember that society is not static. Since the last drop in the age of voting rights, in 1978, much has changed in Norway. Of these changes, there are especially two things that are worth focusing on here. Firstly, Norwegian youth today have been more educated when they reach the age of 16 than they did 30–40 years ago. Social skills and understanding of democracy are incorporated sooner than before. Student work, social education — and in particular school choices — contribute to this. Norwegian children and young people are also more politically active than their parental regeneration in many areas. It may rightly be claimed that these trends make 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds well equipped today to manage a vote. Others claim to my surprise that it is doubtful that 16-year-olds are able to consider the importance of an election act. This is a position in which the Green Party fundamentally disagrees. What has also happened in Norway since the 1970s is that the population has changed radically. We live longer and longer. This means that the average age of those voting is increasing, and the number of pensions to be financed by each employee from the tax bill is increasing. When the average age of voters increases, it becomes important for politicians to appeal to this electoral group. It's simple math that the democratic balance shifts and changes as the age of voting at one end of the scale expands, without the same happening at the other end. It's a cross of thought that we should be involved in this debate, because we risk over the years that the younger proportion of the population actually gets less influence over politics and less meat weight when the votes are counted. This is happening at the same time as the need for young people's fiscal capacity and willingness to tax only increases when the funding of our valuable welfare state is becoming increasingly demanding. This makes it even more important to give young people real influence and power to influence our regime. Finally, it must be noted that giving 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds' voting is not an unusual act. Austria has introduced voting rights from the age of 16 in all elections. Scotland is about to do the same. In the referendum on release from the United Kingdom, all 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds got a vote. For the sake of order, it can be mentioned that the vote was high, and as previous speakers have also spoken, we have seen the same thing in the trial projects in Norway, where 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds are allowed to vote. From Norwegian experiments, there is also a clear trend that first-time voters between 16 and 17 years of age are spreading quite evenly beyond the political scale. There is obviously an important debate we have here today, and there should be a cross-thinking for us that if there were no voting rights for 16-year-olds in Austria during the Monday elections, the outcome of the presidential elections could probably be different. I haven't checked the numbers properly, but there's good reason to believe that then the right-wing populist Norbert Hofer could win, instead of the Greens' Alexander Van der Bellen. The sum total is a few good reasons not to lower the age of voting rights by rollover elections and many weighty reasons for doing so. That is why the Greens support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1002	I take the floor to explain why I disagree with my own party in this matter. I am because I believe the Workers' Party is wrong. It's a sentence that I didn't think I would say so very often from this pulpit, and I'm probably not going to do that either. I am to expand democracy. I believe that the main argument, which was well and thoroughly explained by Gunvor Eldegard on this platform instead, that age of authority and age of eligibility should follow the age of voting rights, is a fictional principle, which I cannot see is more important than all the other good reasons for giving 16-year-olds voting in Norway. As Bård Vegar Solhjell so well explained, we have a completely different school system today than when it was decided that 18-year-olds should have voting rights. I have not taken my position from a maturity assessment, but I have taken it from what foundation and what opportunities are given to make a well-considered decision. I believe that today, with today's school system, you have a better starting point than you had before, and I believe that today's 16-year-olds are able to make an informed, well-considered decision based on an understanding of how society works. I have to admit, I don't know what social maturity is. But the fact that you grow out of experience, and that as a result, age makes the voice you give out, is more likely the older you get, I do not agree. On November 5, 2014, it was an interview with a woman in the evening post, who said she regretted what she had voted in the election. It had the title: "If I had known what Frp stood for, I would never have voted for them in the world." It is easy to be seduced by rhetoric and polemics in the name of the campaign, but going to the party program and finding out where the parties stand in the various cases provides information to 16-year-olds, 18-year-olds and 56-year-olds in Norway. That's why I think it's a deliberate argument to say that long experience is related to maturity, and that's why the older you get, the more you've thought about the consequences of what you vote. I am that a state that gives itself the right to judge 16-year-olds should give them the opportunity to influence who is adopting the laws. That is why I will vote in favour of the proposal to give 16-year-olds the right to vote in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1017	I have to start by regretting that I did not get in – it has not happened in 14 years – but all my life experience made it clear that the representative Lundtegen was going to talk a lot longer in a constitutional debate. That's why I didn't get it, and I'm sorry. I think this is a very funny debate – in a historical perspective. I've been on it once every four years in the last few years. I remember discussing with the Right Inge Wage. I think we both concluded that, in all the voting rights enlargements in the Grand Duchy, you could have held the same posts as the Right-Representative or as the Left-Representative for the last 150 years. The left has been for all the extensions. We are responsible for all the enlargements, and we believe that we should now expand again. When the term ‘maturity’ enters into such a debate — such a small academic thoughtful word as ‘maturity’ — there are enough of those who already have voting rights, which are very, very poor if we are to start with maturity testing. Then I imagine many comments in comment fields that could lead to the withdrawal of voting rights. What we should be discussing is whether you have an age where you have a sea resistance to others in order to be able to exercise your voting rights. Jette Christensen made a good point, and then I don't think it was that she disagreed with the Workers' Party that was the good thing in the post, that was the rest of the argument she had: You can be judged by a law, but you don't have the opportunity to put together the legislative assembly that judges you by virtue of those laws. And you can choose a god, but you can't pick a big man's representative. I believe it should be easier to choose a great representative than to choose a god, but today it is easier to choose a god than to choose a great representative. As a 16-year-old, you can leave the Church of Norway and join another religious community. I don't think the Lord of Spring should be under a high-ranking representative. I think we're going to be something like that. [[Laughter]] What we're seeing now is that the level of education has changed dramatically. The rarity of any 16-year-old is dramatically much greater: they have to make great choices for the future, which has great consequences for education. I've used the following example before, I'll do it again: I'm from Namdalen, and I tried to check the websites of the secondary schools in Namdalen. The last time the voting rights were extended in Norway, 40–60 students took secondary education in Namdalen. We then extended our voting rights to 18-year-olds. According to the website of the high schools in the valley, there are now 1,350 taking high school in the same valley. There's a dramatic rise in the level of knowledge. I also believe that young people leaving high school today can do much more than we did in 1988. So the level of knowledge among today's youth has increased. Young people today are also the major consumers of municipal services. It is those who meet the municipality most often, it is those who meet leisure services, activities – a lot of what the municipality has. Nevertheless, we give them the right to vote at the time they move from the municipality where they should have actually been involved and influenced more. The local democracy commission was very clear on these very findings. Then there's one aspect that I think is being forgotten too much: we're getting older. In sum, the group voting in elections is getting older and older. The older generation is gaining more and more power in society, as we know that the major international challenges we face need to be seen in a generation perspective. It is the oldest part of the population that still forms a larger part of those who have the right to vote. In fact, there is a good reason in itself to extend the voting rights to 16-year-olds, in order to achieve a much greater balance in terms of those in the population who have the right to influence. So I also believe that this is fundamental to the right of participation. And it ran in my mind a story when I heard Tetzschner talk, that one should sit on his high horse and consider maturity and the possibility to participate: I have a friend who was a voice observer in an African country who made his first democratic elections. There had been a long debate on how to actually have free elections in a country with great illiteracy. How can you have an informed choice where people can't read an election program? He had fought very hard because one can actually have democratic elections even in a country with great illiteracy. Then he stood outside the poll, and -- he tells me -- then there came out an old lady, who was very old from the standard of that population. She had never voted before in her life, she had no teeth in her mouth, but she came out with the black finger, which showed that she had tuned--and the tears silted. The democratic rights are not something to sit down and choose for maturity. The democratic rights are about the active participation of individuals in a society. Therefore, we must always fight to push the voting limit – to get the most active, to get the most involved. It is not just for an elite or for those who can read and write that a new democracy is being created. No, it is based on the basic driving forces of democracy, namely the participation of each citizen. That's why I think it's time we discussed this expansion again, that we get it back in Norway, because we need a democracy that's alive and that's evolving. And in the case of today's 16- and 17-year-olds, you don't have to look at "Sham," "Bård Vegar Solhjell," to be impressed by their political activity and awakening. I think this case is over-mature, and I very much hope that Jette Christensen will win in the Labour Party next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1043	According to the proposers, there are two principles behind the desire to lower the age of voting rights to 16 years. One is that the voting rights of 16 years involve an extension of participating democracy. It is an important principle, because it means that more people are given the right to vote, more people are learning to use the right to vote early, and more people are able to express their opinion in a well-organised voice-based democracy. The second is the principle that the person who is old enough to make adult choices should also have the right to participate in the legislative process and thus influence the same laws as the obligations to follow. There are three main counter-arguments that are most likely to be raised in the debate on the 16-year voting rights and that have also been raised today. The first is this with maturity for 16-year-olds. The second is the question of whether this contributes to increased electoral participation, in the light of the tests carried out. The last one is that the age of authority and the age of eligibility are 18 years and that these two should be related to the age of voting rights. On the part of the Christian People's Party, this is not primarily a discussion of 16- and 17-year-olds that is mature enough – we believe many can be – nor is it a question of to what extent this affects electoral participation, but it is the last argument, which is about 18-year-olds of common authority and voting rights, as it is also formulated in our programme. We believe that the age of authority and voting rights should be the same, and we therefore do not support the proposal that is on the table here today. Then it is said that historically there have been different ages of voting, election and authority, but in its time an act was taken to clean up. When these age limits were coordinated, when they were lowered to the present level, it was justified by a fundamental need for precisely this coordination. At the same time, this coordination solved a lot of inconsistencies, and the rules became clearer. The connection between getting responsibility and the ability to take responsibility by becoming authoritative is a good principle from the point of view of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that these arguments still have weight. Having said this, I must stress that we are fully convinced that many 16-year-olds in the country are both hafile, well qualified and absolutely able to make choices in an organized election – both as 16- and 17-year-olds. I will not rule out, and therefore do not reject, that in the future it may be right to reconsider this matter. However, if the age limit of 16 is to be assessed in a new context, we believe that it needs to be considered in an image where one looks at the same age of authority and age of choice. Then we can discuss how far this is going on in time, but I think this is a principle that we should still stick to. So, despite the positive developments we see in society, where today's 16-year-olds have considerable competence, it's not time, in our opinion, to lower the voting age to 16 years. We therefore propose, like the majority of the committee, that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1062	A lot of the debate has gone on rather predictablely, but there have also been a few parallels that I must say with all due respect was quite strange. I think of the comparison that you can choose God when you're under 18, but not a big man's representative. If I can only say in all kindness that there are maybe two different constituencies we're talking about, and that in terms of the more secular constituencies in which we work for every day, it's also ultimately a matter of a joint decision in which we participate as active citizens, actually participate in exercising power, power over others, power over road choices, over legislation, although not all elections are decided by as small margins as in Austria. It brings me to another -- I want to say strange -- argument used here. Because one has an assumption of the electoral population in Austria in the tremendously exciting, nervous choice they have had there -- both chancellor candidates stood at 50,0 pst. on-screen, and the fine-tuning was crucial -- nevertheless, it is a completely unprincipled argument that a new age group is sought because one assumes that they can be influenced either by one position or another. It's unfortunately in this context when we're talking about basic law, a completely useless or -- to say it more carefully -- an irrelevant argument when we're going to consider entering something new into the Constitution. I think a repetition in this is the argument that we are so enlightened today, and the school has become so much better, and so many are taking college education. As far as the electoral system is concerned, it will catch up with those who have graduated well and well from high school, so they are said to have great chances of going on and getting even wiser in high school. It is not just caught by a 16-year limit, it is better caught by an 18-year limit at the elections. In addition, it is also possible to draw attention to the fact that the total number of teaching hours in the old seven-year school is at the level of nine-year-old school. Then there is another aspect that should not be completely ignored when celebrating modern theoretical training, that former age classes often had a closer relationship with working and professional life, with value creation. So if you first start qualifying and saying that here it's almost a Darwinian development, and that it's a story's wheel that makes it absolutely necessary to lower the voting age with time and times, it's a very weak argument, and it won't hold. At least I'm glad that there's such a clear majority behind the vote. I neglected instead. I didn't include the Center Party in the broad majority. It's done with it. So there's reason for a while. We can live very well with the age of 18 voting, because it is at last a perception of when, from the general experience of life, you are able to overlook actions that have consequences for others. It's not sitting on its high horse. It is a job that the legislative assembly must take on. That's why we have these discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1075	I will join the speeches by Solhjell and Jette Christensen and say that voting rights are one of the fundamental human rights in a democracy, and there are limits to the right to vote that must be justified – not enlargements, but limitations: who is the one who should not have the right to vote in a democracy? There must be strong and good reasons for who should not have it. History has shown that it has changed over time. It is possible that the arguments are a little more subdued now, but I seem to remember that other extensions to the voting rights have also met counter-arguments such as ‘maturity’, ‘time is not in place’ – all the same counter-arguments that we hear now. But I do not think I can hear any complete argument about the limitations that currently exclude 16-year-olds from universal voting in Norway. It is this way – at least SV believes – that large participation in elections and the possibility of participating in democratic elections is a democratic good and good for democracy. Its more that can participate, the better it is. Therefore, we believe that extending the voting age to 16 years gives voting rights to a group that is fully capable of participating in democracy in line with other people who currently have voting rights in Norway. There is no uptake test for voting rights in Norway. We can talk about education and that today young people are mature – I agree – but education is not required to have voting rights in Norway, not from any other age group. You are not required to read and write either. It's just that you're over 18 years old. The restriction on the voting rights of those over 18 years of age has also been severely tightened, and changes are also made to those who are refused voting by election. I believe that it is very, in principle, important and right that education is not based on voting rights. Does it want to extend the voting rights to 16 years hurt something or something? I've been thinking about it a lot. What would be damaged? If you drop a voice and you later repent, it may be a sad experience, but I think it's happened to many, including adults. That young people have an influence on who is being elected would hurt someone? I am not able to understand that it would hurt someone. After all, they are seaworthy in a situation where they are responsible for their actions by means of criminal law, for example, and I therefore believe that it is quite reasonable that a group such as seafarer should answer for its actions under the criminal law, can choose the representatives to adopt the laws they are to be penalised by. I think that is a good principle. Then there has been some reference to the trials done with 16-year-olds' voting rights in the municipalities, and the results of them. I have read that with great amazement over the last few years, because there has been a follow-up research, but despite the fact that 16-year-olds participated in elections to a greater extent than those who were over 18 years old, you didn't think it was an important and good result. I think it was a very important and good result that they did it, for the group that is over 18 years old, and the youngest, participate less in elections than others. Therefore, it might be of interest that 16-year-olds were given the right to vote and are caught up in a period of political interest, perhaps leading to more participation in elections later in life. It was also examined whether they became more interested in politics or in political parties, and that relationship was not found. So I think, who else has the right to vote does that require? No one, as far as I know, is required to become more interested in politics or political parties in order to have voting rights. So there's no argument for any other group. Then I also heard that one of the Progress Party was up here and was a little skeptical that someone went to the elections whether it was to the Stortinget or municipal government, I assume, on the basis of ideological conviction, if I did not misunderstand the post. I think that was also a very funny argument in that case. Ideology is about values. Ideology is about the main basis of the political parties. Then there are some pragmatic choices, but I now expect that most of us have an ideology and a value base that is the basis for why we are making elections to the Storing for the different parties. It is possible that there is someone who makes choices for a road trip or toll financing, I do not know what, but it is at least not a bad reason to vote or vote for someone because, for example, you have to say that. wanting to solve climate problems or want a fairer distribution, or giving priority to child protection in front of road development, for example. It's ideological choices taken in politics, and whose youth is more ideological, so more so that they actually intend to do what they say they want, and not say one thing and do another, as adult politicians have a sad tendency to add up gradually, I'm happy about it. I think the policy needs to be more consistent between values and ideology and those that are chosen, and that you choose someone who is strong on it, and that you also follow it up in politics, because I think these 16-year-olds are. At least they're very active in my circle to make sure that we're actually doing what we're told to do. It's a shame you don't choose to take the step now to extend the voting rights to those who are 16 years old. There are very many active young people in this age group, they have many good organisations in Norway in which they can act, but voting in elections is also a very important choice. I also agree with much of what the representative Skei Grande was up and said. I also believe that a 16-year-old should have his representative elected, and as far as I know, you can choose sail if you want to join a church community when you're 12 and not 16 in Norway, and that's good. These questions, whether they are about religion or they are about how society is supposed to be and how the future is going to be, are important. Finally, the theme that Skei Grande was about, the age composition, that the age pyramid becomes less of a pyramid and more of a pillar. My generation and yours, too, President, because I think we're almost even, and we're the many of us, become pensioners, and we're living for a long time, so the future generation that's approaching retirement becomes very big, and the generation of young people is smaller. That is why there is also a reason to ensure that those who are young have influence on the policy ahead, because they will live in the future. There are very important issues that are decided by national parliaments when it comes to important future elections, for example. on climate and the environment, and it should allow young people to be involved and have greater influence on what they have today, because they are going to live with the consequences of the decisions we are making now, and then it's more urgent than what I like to think about at least, and being able to give young people stronger influence thinks I'm right and fair in a situation where the future depends on taking into account the generations that come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1098	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1112	This case is a proposal to amend the Constitution § 93 – later amended to § 115 – with a view to allowing consent to the transfer of sovereignty to be given by a two-thirds majority provided that an advisory referendum was first held. I have been made aware that there is a factual error in the setting, on page 3, at the bottom of the first column and at the top of the second column. It says: ‘The majority indicate that referendums have been used only three times in recent times.’ However, it turns out that we have had six nationwide referendums: in August 1905 on the dissolution of the Union, in November 1905 on Prince Carl, i.e. King Haakon, to become king in Norway, in 1919 on the prohibition of spirits, in 1926 on the prohibition of spirits, this time on the continuation of it, in 1972 on Community membership and in 1994 on EU membership. The factual error has no effect on the matter, but I think it is correct to correct this when information about this is available. The Committee points out that Norway has already signed some 900 international agreements which, to a greater or lesser extent, narrow down our own scope of action and indicates that there has been a broad consensus on most of these agreements in Stortinget. The Committee points out that one already has two different mechanisms for the transfer of sovereignty. The first procedure is to walk the path of the Basic Law § 121 – former § 112 – where the proposal is made by a single aggregate, and then to be adopted by the next aggregate by a two-thirds majority. The second procedure is according to § 115 – former § 93 – which allows for the transfer of sovereignty already under the same size, provided that three-quarters of the representatives join the proposal. The requirement for a majority of three-quarters has been set so that voters have not had the opportunity to express their views in an intermediate election. The proposal thus provides for a third possibility of transfer of sovereignty by providing a sufficient two-thirds majority if an advisory referendum has been held on the issue. In this way, the people have had the opportunity to express their views, while one has no choice but to wait over two large sums in the adoption of the transfer of sovereignty. The majority of the Committee points out that although referendums are institutionally purely advisory, there is a broad political consensus that the outcome must be respected when one first asks for the advice of the people. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members from the Right, suggests that there are already two alternative ways of transfer of sovereignty today and, in the view of the majority, there is no need to legislate on several alternatives. On this basis, the majority consider that the proposal presented is not acceptable. Members of the Committee from the Right request that the proposed amendment to the Constitution § 115, Option 1 B be accepted. I expect a member from the Right himself to argue for the background to his proposal. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation as set out in the opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1129	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good and conscientious work on this proposal, which, in short, is that sovereignty can be transferred by a two-thirds majority, provided that an advisory referendum has only been held. It is not possible to commit internationally and at the same time retain the right of self-determination in its entirety. Sometimes we do it anyway. We've done it many times. We do so in order to conclude commitments of cooperation between countries in order to ensure international peace and security or to promote international legal order. It must and must be possible to safeguard our own interests, but it must not be so easy. Today, this can either be done by ordinary constitutional amendment under Section 121. The proposal is then put to the vote, so that the voters can agree or oppose it. Or this may happen under Section 115, which allows for the transfer of sovereignty already during the same size, assuming that three-quarters of the representatives join the proposal. The requirement for a majority of three-quarters has been set so that voters have not had the opportunity to express their views in an intermediate election. This proposal opens up a third possibility, by a majority of two thirds if an advisory referendum on the issue has been held. Then you ask people what they mean. The Labour Party believes that there are enough ways to give up power as it is. The Labour Party also believes that referendums in Norway at national level are not in practice advisory and should not be treated in this way. If you ask people for advice, you have to listen – we did that about the European Union, we did that about whether we should have a kingdom or a republic in this country. Then you can choose to agree or disagree with the outcome of it, but that's the way it was. We do not believe that it is necessary, wisely, democratically or in line with the parliamentary customary respect for the supreme body we have, the election, when the people are gathered for elections, to make it easier for a sitting magnificence to act against the will of the people when it comes to giving up national power. The land is the people's, not the Big One's. That is why we believe that the proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1142	There are currently two ways in which the Storting may consent to the waiver of sovereignty, either by amending the Constitution in an ordinary way, so that the paragraphs which currently restrict such access are deleted or amended, or by a three-quarters majority of the Grand Duchy. We in the Right want a third option, which has been discussed, namely two thirds of the majority in the Grand Duchy if there has been a majority in a referendum in advance. Norway has signed some 900 international agreements which, to a greater or lesser extent, restrict our national space for action and our sovereignty. We have done this because it has been in our own interest, either economically or in order to promote peace, to promote the rights of citizens or to promote international legal order or human rights. In the future, it will certainly be appropriate to conclude several such agreements. Trade, diplomacy, cooperation between peoples and nations is the safest way to peace and prosperity in the world, and there is a progress that we, as a nation, have to participate in somehow. We believe that the obstacles to participation in such progress should be minimised. I would also like to say that if we end up in a situation similar to 1972 or 1994, where in the social debate we discuss whether we should join, for example. It is reasonable to assume that the EU or other international associations will be involved in a referendum in advance. Then we assume that as in the years to which I referred, the outcome of such a referendum will be respected by all parties on the Stortinget. So you could say that this proposal might be superfluous. The problem is that I don't dare be absolutely sure that the assumption will hold. I think I hope so, but I'm not quite sure. There's a chance that there will be someone who won't ‘beliet’, as we say in Bergen. That's why we think we should introduce this third way of doing it, so that we're absolutely sure that the situation I'm describing will not arise – that someone doesn't trust themselves. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is a little sad that the Workers' Party, which is also the proposer, has concluded that they will not vote in favour of the proposal. If they had done so, we would have been quite close to a constitutional majority in the case, and then perhaps other parties too would support the proposal – who knows? Now the proposal is unlikely to have a majority. I think that's a shame, but that's the way it is. In conclusion, I would like to address the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1155	The representative of Erik Skutle has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1158	The proposal that transfers of sovereignty may be made by a two-thirds majority, provided that an advisory referendum has only been held, has a clear purpose. The aim is to facilitate Norway's entry into the European Union. The proposal is therefore also inter alia. by Svein Roald Hansen and Marianne Aasen, central representatives of the European Movement for nearly several decades, who have worked hard to realise the United States of Europe, as defined in the Charter of European Movement, in which the European Movement is a member. Today’s EU is slightly more extensive than a waiver of sovereignty — much more extensive than Norway’s position in 1994. The EU has shown itself to be a very dynamic organisation, and it is far from any area that we are talking about here. A membership of Norway in the European Union is therefore, in my opinion, now covered by Section 1 of the Constitution. Membership, entering and becoming part of the European Union, is contrary to Section 1 of the Constitution, but it is not a topic here today. The centre party and SV have common comments in the case. We refer to the fact that the Stortinget, after the provision of § 115, can waive sovereignty in a limited area until an organisation Norway is connected, and in this case it must be done by a three-quarters majority in Stortinget. Decisions under § 115 are taken directly, without any major choice between proposals and decisions, and that is why the requirement for a majority of three-quarters is set. It was deliberately set high by the Stortinget when the provision was included in the Constitution in 1962, just to compensate for the loss of waiting time. The Centre Party will also, with the agreement of SV, stress that there is no need to modify the procedures relating to membership and that the provisions of the Basic Law relating to majority requirements in the event of a waiver of sovereignty should remain unchanged. It's very happy, what's happening here today. There is a broad majority of the parties that the Centre has argued for in many large-scale periods, and the important organisation No to the EU should be delighted that the attitude and proposals of the European Movement are now being thoroughly parked. So it's very happy to see that it's just the Right that sticks to the proposal. And what's special is that the right is completely missing the argument in the setting -- I haven't seen it before, that there are no arguments for a proposal. In his particular remark, the right says: ‘The present proposal changes the threshold for the transfer of sovereignty from today’s 3⁄4 to 3⁄4 in the above case. These members support this.’ It can't be said any shorter. There is no argument. The representative Skutle said that the proposal from the Right might be superfluous, but since not everyone had locked up to have binding referendums, it was right to take it up. But binding referenda is not a topic, and as a representative of big business, I will not commit myself to the referendums being binding. This statement shows that today's Right is an ideological follower of the EU, an ideological follower of the European Union, no matter how the Union evolves, and people notice it gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1182	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1196	The most important task a country has is to protect its citizens and its borders. It's also the most serious thing that it can do. Sometimes it also involves dealing with allies. It involves not only often, but as a general rule, direct interference with people's security and freedom. The goal is to make it safer, but it can really threaten and take life on Norwegian soil, or Norwegian life can be lost on alien soil. We have too many examples of that happening. I cannot stand here and talk about this matter without giving a humble thanks to those who have fought for us out and at home, those who have waited, those who have waited in vain, those who have fallen, and those who have never received thanks. Today, Norway has more generations of veterans than ever, and we will be forever grateful to them. Today, it is established practice that it is the government that adopts Norwegian participation in war abroad, without the Stortinge in decisions being involved in open debate or open decisions, but consultations are held in closed meetings with a selection of national Parliaments. The majority of the Committee points out that this practice is based on the Constitutional Act § 25, which states that «The King has the highest command of the State's land and sea power», as well as the Constitutional Act § 26, which states that «The King has the right to summon troops», and to start war in the country's defense. That's why it happens around the King's table. With reference to these paragraphs, Norwegian troops have been sent to three foreign kingdoms – Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya – for the last ten years, without an active decision in Parliament behind them. The majority indicate that this prorogative has been controversial. In 2001, when SV thought that a proposal to send soldiers to Afghanistan should be debated in the main hall, the then head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, said the following: ‘It is not just that it is unnecessary to take a decision in this case. We believe that if we were to do so, it would make the responsibility between accumulation and government unclear." Gunnar Garbo, former LP, wrote in VG 16 January 2008: ‘Section 26 of the Constitution empowers the government to open war to defend Norway. But it doesn't open up access to start an assault war. After paragraph 25, it is also doubtful whether the government today has the right to use troops outside the borders of the country without the consent of the Stortinge.’ These quotations show that there has been a great deal of discussion about how those paragraphs were to be interpreted. On 27 November 2001, the U.D.'s Legal Service took note of the decision taken by the Government of Bondevik II on Norwegian participation in the Iraq War, and the U.D.'s Legal Service said much of the same thing as the Constitutional Department in Stortinget said when they later supported this assessment. The reference reads as follows: ‘Consistent constitutional practice since the 1950s, including command conditions relating to Norwegian participation during the Gulf War, confirms the understanding that the Basic Law § 25 does not prevent participation in foreign operations, even under other national orders, if this is part of the performance of international tasks which are also intended to serve the ideal interests of Norway or security policy needs.’» The majority believe that the government, as elected trustee of Storting, should continue to be able to take this decision. Nevertheless, I would like to add that it is a responsibility that obliges not only to make the right decisions but to provide transparency on the decision and to create a public debate – and to listen to the public debate. There may be good reasons why there is an urgent need to participate in operations abroad, but then the reasons have to be shared, and they have to be explained, and one has to be equipped with an opportunity to understand. The reasons need to be clarified and made available to us. They must be made available to us who send people from us to a war in another country. There are some key issues that the government is responsible for explaining before decisions are taken. These questions may be: Is this necessary? Is that justifiable? Is that proportionate? Is the assignment dangerous? Will it succeed? Is Norway at war? Not least, it's important for those who leave. The government must make those who leave, make sure that when they stand there in uniform, on foreign ground, with their beating heart and arms in their hands, they have someone in their backs. With that, I recommend the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1231	Previous speakers chose to quote Gunnar Garbo, formerly a potter and leader of the Left, but who in this context must be said to be a voice from the 1960s. I think there is more guidance in quoting Thorbjørn Jagland, who is usually a larger leader of the Workers' Party, as in 2001, when the Socialist Left Party thought that a proposal to send soldiers to Afghanistan should be debated in the main hall, said: ‘It is not just that it is unnecessary to take a decision in this case. We believe that if we were to do so, it would make the responsibility between accumulation and government unclear." Our objection to the proposal is that it goes much further than to provide insight into what individual parties and representatives of the Storting had to believe and argue about the defence's foreign exposures. The Constitutional Amendment will interfere with the established and well-established distribution of power between legislative and executive powers. Today's system of consultation of the Stortinget works as appropriate in our view. If decisions on Norwegian foreign exposures are to be taken by The Storting in plenary, it will require a more detailed decision-making basis, which will then be able to undermine the objective as intended by the exposure, if tactical and strategic considerations are also to be fully justified. In practice, the government would have to make a selection of what it regards as relevant information, referred to at a more general level. This could be at the expense of the investigation requirements which would have to be imposed if the Storting itself were to take a decision. In retrospect, there could be a dispute as to whether the information obligation was adequately met with regard to the level of detail and completeness, in particular with regard to information that is both relevant to the decision and sensitive at the same time. One problem here is also the Storting's ability to keep secret information. According to our Constitution, the size has been entrusted to the control authority with the government's dispositions and decisions, and – according to the circumstances and the nature of the individual case – neglects and omissions. If these kinds of decisions are transferred from government to government, parliamentary back-testing will be weakened. It would be unnecessary to stress that the timing indicates that the government should also be able to take operational decisions without going into the path of formal decision-making. It is essential to highlight that the government is working in a parliamentary context, where access to consultation provides the opportunity to exchange judgements, but without any confusion as to who makes decisions within their own area of competence. At the same time, however, the government must be prepared to be accountable to the Stortinget, including for miscalculations. We therefore stress that the government's control of the Storting gives better democratic control in the form of effective post-control, as it has not yet been seen that the Storting is revising or criticising itself. The balance sheet – the distribution of power – and democratic control also mean that this proposal should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1247	There is a broad consensus in this matter, so I suppose I can really join most of what the rapporteur said in his statement. I can also – at large – join the Right Representative Tetzschner and his comments. At the same time, I think it is appropriate to join the case rapporteur when she thanks everyone who on behalf of the Kingdom of Norway has contributed to the interests of the nation in various foreign operations. And of course, we're going to end up with that. Only a small remark in the case of doubt: the undersigned is one of those skeptics in view of the closeness of foreign operations. But at the same time, it is important, both for me and the Progress Party, when we decide to take part in a foreign operation, that any enemy knows as little as possible about the Allies' plans, so that they cannot take countermeasures that, in the worst case, can make them lose their lives. When one here weighs in front of and against, both I and the Progress Party say that it will still be right that it is the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee that ultimately takes the very difficult decision on participation in foreign operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1256	First, a comment to the case rapporteur, the representative Jette Christensen: thanking Norwegian veterans who have participated in war abroad is not the topic here. There is no doubt that we, on the part of the Central Party, are on the sea side of supporting our soldiers, who are doing what they are ordered to do in war. But it's not the theme here today. The centre party participates in a broad majority which refers to opinions from different teams in the election. We refer to Thorbjørn Jagland in 2001, Gunnar Garbo in VG 16 January 2008, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Legal Department, consideration 27 November 2001, and the Constitutional Department in Stortinget, note of 4 December 2001. And why do we support this? Yes, all these opinions clearly show the need for constitutional changes. Sending Norwegian soldiers into war is a serious decision that requires transparency and debate on the real issues. People have demands for open debate among political leaders when decisions to send Norwegian forces into war are to be taken. It is quite obvious that a plenary deliberation will give decisions greater weight and stronger democratic anchoring. Such a treatment will give the decision the seriousness it deserves, and it will also contribute to debate. And not least, it will mean that every party and every representative must vote in favour and stand for their views. I have often felt that the treatment that has been in our war participation abroad during the time I have been here has been such that I have not had to go into it necessary. There is something I want to complain about from this pulpit, and it is one of the strong motivations that the centre party is also going in to support the SV's proposal. If Norwegian forces are to be sent to war, there is a decision that the Stortinget must take in plenary. Therefore, we recommend the amendment to the Basic Law §25 Option 1 B, where it says: "This power must not be increased or reduced without the consent of the Stortinge." That's not what we're talking about. We're not going to act in such a way that it stands in the way of what's to be achieved. There's something completely different we're talking about. It was very special to hear the representative, Tetzschner, who says that the proposal goes too far – it will lead to a more detailed decision-making base, undermine the purpose, is of a sensitive nature, and one would not be able to keep information secret in the Storting. These are incredibly important issues, and the Central Party fundamentally disagrees with the arguments of the representative Tetzschner. It's important that we get a greater degree of transparency about this. It is referred to in the setting of what has been done in Denmark, where one treats it in plenary. So our close neighbor treats it that way. The last point is effective post-control of war abroad. It should be introduced, it should be addressed. It will be enriching for the social debate, so that one can draw lessons from the decisions – serious decisions – as a fatter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1273	Does Lundteg wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1276	I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1281	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen then addressed the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1284	This setting contains a fairly long review, which is completely accurate, in my view, of how the Constitution has been understood, what history is, and what discussion has been around it. There is no reason in the setting that the large majority should continue to be so. Usemja is not about how this has been understood, but whether it is wise to continue to understand it that way, practice it that way and have the following text in the Constitution. Only in one place, in addition to the broad agreement, does the majority say that a ‘we intend to follow the constitutional practice recognised by both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Constitutional Department of the Grand Duchy, and will therefore recommend that the proposal be rejected’. I believe that this will be a great improvement in the way we deal with such serious questions. Let me base it with three points: Firstly, it is the most important question we can address in a society, and then the treatment must be proportionate to the importance. In this room we deal with small changes, down to NOK 100,000, in a budget, we can raise questions about very small things, but questions that apply if we're going to participate in a war, send Norwegian forces into war, we don't take a stand. And as the representative Lundtigen said, it also means that it doesn't come in here the same way that other things do. It's important in different ways. That may be the most important issue for our society – defence and security. Which task is more fundamental to a state power to last? It will be the biggest debates on major consequences. The wars in which we have participated, we have had extensive debates in Norway – both while they went on and on. And of course, it has the most decisive consequences for individuals, as I thought the representative Christensen was well represented. A great number of Norwegians have made a great deal of effort over time, military and civil, and have had a great deal of work for Norway internationally. Not least, it has great consequences for the individual and human beings around them. I know that very well myself. My grandfather, who was a resistor, sat in Sachsenhausen for three years during the Second World War, and two generations later my sibling was one of those who died in Afghanistan, in Norwegian service there. Many Nordics know about such experiences. Fortunately, most of them have their loved ones back home. The point is that those who serve are busy with the questions – whether they have people in their backs, whether they are called by their right name, whether they are understanding home for what they are doing, and the best way to ensure understanding is to know what is happening, and that it comes out in public. So the importance is the first. Then the openness is an argument in itself. Openness is best guaranteed by the fact that it must be laid down and grounded in the Storting, by the fact that each lot must then present its vision, and that the foundation must appear here in this room. I'm overconfident that when we choose that, we may have different views, but the usual thing is that there is a large number of people who are so perplexed that they are doing the right thing, that the foundation will tolerate the public and tolerate a debate in the Storting – also with a subsequent decision. I want to emphasize that even for history it has meaning. It was well the representative Christensen who drew up the Afghanistan war, which is a somewhat special situation, where, with the support of the Progress Party, SV, had a sufficient minority in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee to bring the matter before the Storting. This means that we can later study the political basis for entering Afghanistan more effectively than in similar situations, because both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence were here in an open debate. There was a debate in which all the parties took the floor and put forward their reasoning and reasoning around it. Thus, from this room we also have a better basis for knowing how we argued, and what was thought and said before we went into Afghanistan, than we do in other situations. The third concerns liability. In matters that have been up to voting here in this Chamber, the individual representative has taken a greater responsibility than that of someone sitting in a closed room and accepting it. I've been working on these questions for quite a few years, and this very topic about the decision-making procedure has bothered me, and I've written a lot about it. I have to say, it's among the themes where I thought the arguments used are extremely thin. An argument that was usually quite long, was that it was practically impossible or difficult. But at least it's no more impossible than that Denmark actually does it this way. And so much more effective is no Danish than we could be able to do what they do in the Folketing. Another argument that often comes up is that the openness around the plans may weaken us in such a situation. I have been sitting in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee for two periods, so I've been missing out on what information we get there. It is not, of course, the case, either today, that information on military plans is being given at something close to strategic or operational level. It is, of course, superior to political decisions. Of course, it is not given today in a closed forum, which allowed one to risk leaks, etc. So there wouldn't be anything in the way of lifting decisions up to a superior level. However, the information is given to the Storting, and there is a record from the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, so when it comes to the obligation to provide information, I do not think there is any argument either. I think the constitutional argument is real. One may have the fundamental view that it should not simply enter the Storting, but the picture is – and it is important to say – that the Constitution is not an obstacle to an open round in the Stortinget. First of all, it has been shown that we have the protective valve that a minority in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee can bring matters into the Chamber, and there can be suggestions – as was done during the Afghanistan war. At that time, there was a movement in the Storting, so there was a possibility. With today's constitution, each government can choose to keep an arrangement and secure parts of it with a openness. But what we do not have is a constitution that obliges us to implement a decision in the Storting, that an open debate be held, so that each representative has to stand behind. My best guess is that much of the background for this comes from a tradition that we have in Norwegian foreign and security policy, which I respect, but which builds on the fact that it is a good thing that we have a broad deal and not too much debate. It can be understood during the cold war. I think it's terribly difficult to understand that it's going to be leading in 2016, because it's with foreign policy as with other questions, that where it's thought too equal, it's usually thought too little. Therefore, SV will vote in favour of the constitutional change that means that we will be treated in the Storting by military participation – with the clarification that it is entirely possible to do so without constitutional changes, and that we will continue to do so in the individual cases where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1312	Open debate is the most important thing to get the most insight into making decisions that will have serious consequences. I would like to stress that sending Norwegian soldiers to war, which several of the previous speakers have spoken on, is a serious decision. It is perhaps the most serious decision a state can take, and it is a decision that requires transparency and debate about the circumstances around it. Such a decision has an impact on the country’s security situation, on the threat picture against Norway and Norwegian citizens and may have very serious consequences for those sent in war. We believe that the people are entitled to an open debate among political leaders when decisions are made of this severity. The fact that the government consults the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence by decision does not raise this issue. Consultations in secret are of little concern to the public. Taking the debate out in plenary will make the individual politician more responsible and make the debate more accessible to those who have actually chosen us to take those decisions. In those cases where there is not already a broad debate on Norwegian foreign policy, in particular on Norwegian contributions to military operations, we should have such a debate. A plenary deliberation will give the decision greater weight and stronger democratic anchoring. When both Denmark and Norway decided to take part in the Libyan bombing, Denmark dealt with the case in Folketinget in plenary. In Norway the parliamentary leaders at Stortinget were consulted by telephone. A common objection to the constitutional proposal under consideration today is that time does not go by and that it is practically difficult to obtain full treatment. Such situations could, of course, arise, which the Constitutional proposal takes into account. When one knows that our neighbouring country Denmark is handling this, the argument about the practical and temporal conditions becomes less relevant. If the use of military power outside the borders of the country is always anchored in the Storting, such treatment will bring the decision it deserves seriously. Not least, it will mean that each party and every representative must actively vote and stand for their views. How wars and military operations are conducted is changing as the rapid development of weapon technology takes place. Today, war is taking place, among other things: by drones and electronic attack. The attack can be carried out far from those affected, and it can affect the material and human values of other countries in a completely different way from before. We in the Greens are uncertain whether these developments are being debated in sufficient detail in the public domain. We fear that we are taking too lightly on these issues, and we fear that the fact that many of the consultations are not taken more widely than in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence can help to ensure that the debate on these issues is not wide enough. One of the basic principles of democracy that we practice in Norway is that the government should be fully responsible to its own people. This must also apply to Norwegian participation in war, and this must apply when the decision is taken. This assumes that there is an information flow from government to population. If not, we will weaken the political debate that forms the pillar of democracy. That is why the Green Party will support the proposals for constitutional changes addressed in this matter. Finally, I would like to say that we are outside of any comments at the outset in the Committee's position, which we should be in. These are the comments that would otherwise have been unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1346	This is a proposal to include in the Constitution a document prohibiting nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. Roughly speaking, a first reference can be made to the view of the plural. They clearly do well to ensure that the self-imposed restrictions we have in the nuclear policy are maintained, but that they do not see the need to include such a new element in the Constitution. As you'll know, over a long time in Norway, we've practiced a policy where we don't have nuclear weapons, they don't store them or allow them on ships that go to Norwegian ports, for example. Plural underscores that ‘there should be no doubt that Norwegian policy in this field remains clearly firm and therefore considers it unnecessary to also establish legal frameworks by means of a constitutional amendment’. Then it is important to say that another plurality, which is the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left and the SV, refers to the inter-political Norwegian support for the work of a world free of nuclear weapons and refers to a matter that has recently arisen in the Foreign and Defence Committee on the full abolition of nuclear weapons, and how it will provide a safer value. I refer from Input. 199 S for 2015-2016 by the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee: ‘The Government is asking the Government to work actively for a world free of nuclear weapons and to contribute to the implementation of the Non-Proliferation Agreement’s obligations, to play an active role in non-proliferation and in disarmament with a view to a balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable abolition of nuclear weapons, and on this basis to work long-term for a legally binding framework to achieve this objective.’ [[NPT]] It is such that it is also considered here, in the case and in the settings, that Norway should continue to work for this. Nevertheless, a clear majority does not support the proposal to include the elements in the Constitution. For this reason, I shall end by saying a few words about why SV supports the proposal itself, to which we are also co-sponsored. Nuclear weapons are the most dangerous and inhuman weapons humans have invented. They were used over Hiroshima and Nagasaki at the end of the Second World War. I myself have visited Hiroshima and seen the extreme damage it caused. Tens of thousands of people died momentarily or of the injuries in the months that followed. Today's nuclear weapons are far more destructive than they once had. It is not possible to use nuclear weapons without massive irreversible humanitarian consequences and environmental impacts. There are fewer nuclear weapons today than there were a few decades ago, but there are several countries that have them, and there is a greater risk of spreading. There is a real basis for claiming that nuclear weapons pose a greater threat today than what they did at the end of the cold war. There are other weapons of mass destruction, chemical and biological weapons. There we have international conventions that prohibit their use. We don't have that for nuclear weapons. We believe that this provides a good basis for it to be an own constitutional ban that makes it clear that Norway will not produce, introduce, use or deploy nuclear weapons in the kingdom. Finally, I take up the proposals from the Left, SV and the Environment Party of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1381	The representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1384	Norway’s line in the question of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil has been stuck for nearly 60 years. At a NATO Council meeting in Paris on 17 December 1957, the then Prime Minister, Einar Gerhardsen, made statements to Norway, and I quote from it: "It was the fear of losing freedom and independence that, nine years ago, brought us together in a defence alliance. Its primary objective was to secure peace and security in our part of the world. So far we have succeeded in this, thanks to our cohesion and the defence efforts of our people. Our alliance's military strength objective has clearly demonstrated its defensive character at all times. Our organisation and the individual Member States have placed the greatest emphasis on not going to measures that could be described as aggressive or provocative. This must continue to be our policy.’ He went on to say: ‘However, in this context, I must remind you that, from NATO’s founding, it has been Norway’s policy not to station foreign forces on our territory as long as we are not threatened by or under attack. We see no need to change this policy.’ Then comes the initiating sentence: ‘We also have no plans in Norway to have nuclear weapons stockpiles established in the Norwegian territory or to install medium-range rocket launch bases.’ Former Prime Minister Gerhardsen’s wording on ‘no plans to establish stocks of nuclear weapons in the Norwegian territory’ was then clearly inspired by a unanimous decision at the National Assembly of the Workers’ Party half a year earlier, in May 1957, where it was unanimously adopted: ‘The nuclear weapon shall not be placed in the Norwegian territory.’ This policy has been successful, and has been sustained for almost 60 years — through various security policy epochs, through cold war and detachment. The policy has had a stable and broad political impetus here to the country and to the Stortinget. Therefore, we do not see the need to also establish legal frameworks through a constitutional change, which this discussion is about. In addition, an explicit ban on what is called the production, introduction, use and deployment of a special type of weapon, by its degree of detail, will challenge Norwegian constitutional tradition. The proposal also raises the question of precedent. Yes, the humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons are potentially disastrous, of course. In terms of biological and chemical weapons, we have joined UN conventions – but we have not taken any prohibition into the Constitution. And if we look into the future, there are new issues, such as: autonomous, autonomous weapon systems. The proposers point out that a handful of countries have introduced similar prohibitions in their national laws. I record that none of the listed countries are allied NATO member countries. That being said, it is important to stress that the work of abolishing nuclear weapons is not contrary to our NATO membership, rather to the contrary: NATO's strategic concept of 2010 obliges the alliance to work to facilitate the conditions of a world free of nuclear weapons. This objective was reiterated in the declaration of the last NATO summit in Wales in September 2014. Over a few weeks ago, the Storting also contributed to the role of Norway in the work of a nuclear-free world through the treatment of the global safety challenges. The majority of the population has for several years clearly expressed its support for the objective of an international, real, total ban on nuclear weapons. In the disarmament field, we often relate to long-term goals. But just long-termity must lead to that we don't let go of the roof, push the problem aside and let the superiors know that the task seems too big. On a smaller scale, we overcame this position when we agreed to negotiate an international ban on anti-personnel mines in 1997 and a ban on class weapons in 2008. A total ban on nuclear weapons is a larger, more complex and probably more long-term task. On the one hand, we have not come to the point today that the time has come to include a ban on nuclear weapons in our constitution. However, the government of Stortinget has been given a clear marshall that Norway should play a driving role in the political work of an international, legally binding framework, in order to secure the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. The size has recently adopted what has been referred to by others, but I repeat it: ‘The Government is asking the Government to work actively for a world free of nuclear weapons and to contribute to the implementation of the Non-Proliferation Agreement’s obligations, to play an active role in non-proliferation and in disarmament with a view to a balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable abolition of nuclear weapons, and on this basis to work long-term for a legally binding framework to achieve this objective.’ [[...]] On this basis, the Workers' Party does not support the constitutional proposal to impose a ban on nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1429	An overwhelming majority of the Committee, and probably also in the Chamber, believe that there should be no doubt that Norwegian policy in this field is still firm, and we therefore consider it absolutely unnecessary to introduce such a restriction, such a ban, as a constitutional provision, and at least in the form given to it. We also believe that a general ban, as proposed, against nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil may be contrary to established Norwegian security policy, as it has been defined since the 1950s, as previously stated. We have also supported, as part of the established defence policy, that Norway does not currently allow the deployment of nuclear weapons or the establishment of foreign bases on Norwegian territory in peacetime. But already those who studied Einar Gerhardsen's speech in Paris, would have just seen that the statement was given on condition that it was peacetime, that no war was going on or threatened immediately. One of our objections to this proposal is that it has a much further impact. It is a general ban that should work throughout all times and in all circumstances. We believe that our authorities need to be able to assess changes in basic and nuclear policy if the situation so requires, for example. after an international crisis or aggravation of a dramatic nature in the negative direction. Our policies have so far been reassured, that is. absence of bases and nuclear weapons, self-imposed, in peacetime, but also deterrence, i.e. that policy may be changed in the event of a change in the safety situation. Today's policy is well compatible with NATO's strategic concept. The ban on nuclear weapons in Norway could be seen as undermining the relationship with established alliance policies and, at the same time, deprived the Norwegian authorities of security policy freedom of action. The Constitutional proposal could be seen to be at odds with NATO's strategic concept, which states that nuclear weapons are part of the Alliance's deterrent strategy. In our opinion, adopting a constitutional provision as it proposes will have no effect other than creating uncertainty about Norwegian foreign and defence policy. Alliance policy, i.e. common security through integrated defence cooperation between Western democracies has been realised through our NATO membership. Protection of Norway’s freedom has been based on the alliance’s military concept, which has at no time abandoned the principle of using nuclear weapons, as long as this type of weapon is located outside the alliance and in countries that may pose a threat to Norway or other NATO countries. A credible deterrence is essential for nuclear weapons to never actually come into use, thereby reducing the corresponding risk of being attacked by conventional weapons. The idea is just this: by verbally writing off the possibility of using nuclear weapons, you can see a doubt that lowers the threshold of a conventional attack, and then you can come up with a conventional attack in a situation where it escalates for the use of tactical, maybe also strategic, nuclear weapons. Then it is clear that we would rather want a situation where the possibility of using this type of weapon is not fundamentally waived, as long as other countries that are not subject to control have these weapons. Then it's better that we haven't written off the possibility, but also at the same time have managed to raise the threshold of being attacked by conventional means, and perhaps also an escalation to a further use of nuclear weapons ever. That's what's also starting to become our experience in post-war history. It is true that Norway’s governments have historically imposed certain restrictions on their nuclear and basic policies, but the declaration is, as I said, related to peacetime, and the Paris Declaration also expresses the government’s decision as part of its foreign policy management. Therefore, for this more formal reason, it is also not appropriate to provide a basis for defence doctrines. A constitutional change will then be of little relevance because it will simply set new boundaries between the executive, the government, the exercise of foreign and defence policy decisions by the government and by which the Grand Duchy is to control. We have therefore reached the same conclusion as the previous speaker, Mr Kolberg. We strongly advise the Stortinget not to adopt the proposed Constitutional Bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1446	As many have already pointed out, the policy of banning nuclear weapons has had a broad political upswing, which has lasted for 60 years, even in times of security problems. There should therefore be no doubt that Norwegian policies in this field are still clearly established. The Progress Party – like the majority – therefore considers it unnecessary to establish legal frameworks by means of a constitutional amendment. Even NATO's strategic concept commits the alliance to the goal of facilitating a world without nuclear weapons. Norway has taken a clear stand against nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. This policy has not only unison political support in Norway, but also clearly accepted by our allies. A constitutional ban on nuclear weapons in Norway could be seen as undermining the establishment of alliance policies while at the same time depriving the Norwegian authorities of security policy freedom of action. The Constitutional proposal could be seen to be at odds with NATO's strategic concept, which states that nuclear weapons are part of the Alliance's deterrent strategy. We see that several countries have either developed or are trying to develop nuclear weapons. North Korea is a country that claims to have long-range nuclear weapons. This is a country that large parts of the world have little or no confidence in. It is therefore important that the NATO alliance continues its policy, in view of a deterrent strategy. However, this should not change Norway’s work on nuclear weapons. Norway must and should continue its position on nuclear weapons and continue its effective efforts to change the world’s view of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1453	The position of the Christian People's Party is clear. In our programme there is a clear wording: ‘The proliferation of nuclear weapons is a serious threat to international peace and security. KrF believes that Norway needs to play an active role in international efforts to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to work long-term for a ban on such weapons.’ We therefore support the work on balanced and reciprocal nuclear disarmament in the context of the Non-Proliferation Agreement, including a long-term objective of an international ban on nuclear weapons. In the short term, it is essential to prevent further proliferation of nuclear weapons. The question here and now is whether a ban on the production, introduction, deployment and use of nuclear weapons should be fundamental. That question is just as much about the nature of the Constitution and what you think is natural to add to the Constitution. However, the issue underlying the proposal is important, namely how to deal with this type of weapons of mass destruction and what they represent. The theme is increasingly topical, unfortunately. At the same time, it is not in our Constitutional tradition to write down objectives of the kind that it is added up to here. In our view, these kinds of issues are best addressed through other policy instruments and initiatives, in line with what I have mentioned in the introduction. In our view, the nature and purpose of the Constitution do not make it right to lay down a prohibition on one particular type of weapons of mass destruction. Other weapon categories are also not mentioned in the Basic Law, and it is also not correct, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, to introduce this type of provision, based on our view of the nature of the Constitution and its permanence. The introduction of such a provision naturally raises questions about other types of weapons. What about other categories of weapons that are particularly inhuman or harmful to the civilian population or the environment? These are completely relevant questions. However, the Christian People's Party is quite clear that the work of a nuclear-free world must and must continue. Unfortunately, several countries have acquired nuclear weapons after the Non-Proliferation Agreement of 1970 was concluded. It's a dangerous trend that needs to be reversed. We must prevent Iran and North Korea from becoming nuclear powers, and we must prevent terrorist groups from acquiring nuclear weapons or other nuclear material that can be used in bombs. At the same time, nuclear powers must intensify efforts to reduce the number of nuclear weapons. Only in that way can we achieve the goal of a world completely free of nuclear weapons, which is a vision and a goal that we will work for. The UN has set up a working group to work on this, and Norway must be an active driver. We have an important task as a nation: we're going to be active and offensive. And the Christian People's Party's position is clear: we're going to prevent further proliferation of nuclear weapons, and we're going to work long-term for a ban on nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1475	I fully agree with the position taken by the representative, Mr Kolberg, in his in-depth statement. I therefore do not see the need to have any long posts. The centre party is a strong supporter of what has been established Norwegian security policy since the 1950s, which does not allow the deployment of nuclear weapons or the establishment of foreign bases on Norwegian territory in peacetime. It is a policy that is very, very firm for us. There is no debate in our rows about it. I would also like to highlight what others have said, according to Innst, it has been the subject of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. 199 S for 2015-2016, where it is a unanimous committee that provides cross-political Norwegian support for the work ‘for a world free from nuclear weapons’. I note that this committee's comment on our part does not have the support of the Right. I don't know if it's an incubator that it's like that, but I don't expect it, because it's not said, and I don't understand why Right isn't on it. The centre party will follow the situation internationally carefully in order to establish a legally binding framework against nuclear weapons. What has been and is Norwegian policy in this area has been clearly accepted by our allies, and it is important to be clear and clear. Otherwise, I note that the members of the Right and the Progressive Party have their own comment – to which the representative Tetzschner also referred – where they ‘reject that the Norwegian authorities must be able to assess changes in the basic and nuclear policy if the situation deteriorates dramatically in a negative direction’. I did not get a good answer as to why it was necessary for the Right to take in that remark. Does anyone intend to change the basic and nuclear weapons policy in peacetime? Either it's peace, or it's war. This leads to the creation of uncertainty and doubt as to where the Right Party and the Advance Party stand in peacetime, which is fundamental to our creating in this discussion. The central party is in a large majority who opposes the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1490	We have had several debates in this Chamber over the last few years on nuclear policy. They have been interesting because the debates show that although there is a kind of consensus on some main lines, there is also a significant gap between the parties in the view of nuclear policy, both when it comes to the fundamental law-making of Norwegian practice, which we are now discussing, and also in the view of how Norway should act in the world when it comes to obtaining binding legal frameworks against the use of nuclear weapons. There's a reason these discussions come, because the use of nuclear weapons has irreversible human consequences, irreversible environmental consequences. I believe it is unmistakable for all of us that such weapons will be used on Norwegian soil both because of the enormous potential for destruction and because that kind of weapon will also make humanitarian aid after attack and use impossible. In addition, having nuclear weapons makes one a potential target for other countries that have nuclear weapons. It makes it especially important to have a secure legal guarantee against nuclear weapons being deployed in Norway. Representative Tom E.B. Holthe of the Progress Party said that there is unison support for today's practice, that it has great acceptance of our allies, and that there should be no doubt that that practice is firm. That's very well said. But is there anything other than doubt being created, not just through the vote today, but not least through the comments from the Right and the Advance Party, which Per Olaf Lundtigen, quite rightly pointed out? I'm in doubt when I read them, if today's practice is going to be firm. What you're saying is that today's practice is going to be firm, until he doesn't do it anymore. My left and I think we need a constitutional anchoring and insurance against Norway as a future nuclear battlefield. Yes, situations can change. The security policy image can change, but is there a situation in which the Norwegian population sees us deploying nuclear weapons, and much less using nuclear weapons, on Norwegian soil? I don't see such a situation. Therefore, I think it is right to include in the Constitution the suggestions we are discussing here. That's a good suggestion. I think it is a pity that some of the proposals from the Labour Party have clearly changed their view since the proposals were submitted, but we still have not come to vote. So at least the Left and I are going to vote in favour, and I'm going to encourage other representatives in the Chamber to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1503	This debate touches on one of the most fundamental challenges facing us in our modern society. Over the last century, mankind established a technological and economic capacity that has given us very much good, but at the same time has given us the ability to destroy both our own civilization and our own basis of life. It has given us some tools that we need very good and strong regulation to manage over time. We in the Green Party are very uncertain whether we have been able to establish a sufficiently good regulatory framework in several of those areas. Nuclear weapons may be the most powerful symbol and the greatest threat to our future. The use of nuclear weapons has humanitarian consequences that surpass all other weapons. It differs from conventional weapons by the fact that in use they primarily hit innocent civilians and not contentious ones. As the bombs swept over Hiroshima and Nagasaki, one of the greatest human and environmental disasters we've seen in modern times was triggered. The suffering that the bombing caused is almost beyond our comprehension. In total, about 60,000 people were killed at the moment. Nearly another 190,000 died of radioactive dust in the air, contaminated food and drink, cancer and burns or tendon damage after radiation. In the years that followed, children were born with severe disorders as a result of the exposure of their parents and grandparents. Tragedy was man-made by wild politics, and therefore we can also prevent this from happening again – by means of wild politics. The Greens support the demand for a large number of the world's states and a broad civil society for a ban on nuclear weapons and want a NATO without these weapons of mass destruction. To achieve this internationally, we must start with our own country. There is no good reason why nuclear weapons should be allowed. While the world has banned chemical weapons and biological weapons, the third type of weapons of mass destruction, nuclear weapons, is still law. This happens despite the fact that this can be the most devastating of all. Our sister parties in several countries, including Germany, have been at the forefront of the work of disarmament and the deployment of nuclear warheads on their own territory for many years. In recent years, resistance to nuclear weapons has grown and embraces far wider. Three out of four countries support the initiative for a ban following a proposal from Austria. It's not too late yet. Norway has done this before. We supported the work of banning the class weapons, which previous speakers have been involved in, even though it was also a long way off. The government then concluded that it was correct and important that Norway played a key role in getting the agreement into port. The government now has an opportunity to do the same with nuclear disarmament. We think it's going to be a much more constructive line than the government has so far taken. The Green Party believes that it is fully possible to combine an active disarmament policy with following up our commitments as a NATO member. We think it is regrettable that the government has pushed NATO forward to avoid taking a clear position on this matter. Several countries already have such provisions that we are dealing with here today, laid down in their constitution. We believe it would be a strength for Norway with a provision that clearly states that the production, introduction, deployment or use of nuclear weapons in Norway is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1525	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1539	I just want to briefly take the floor and refer to the majority comments in the vote. The background to the case is, as the proposers write, a desire for the State to have more influence over the management of the Information Society's fund. It has its background in the fact that the previous government wanted to instruct the fund in connection with a Santa Claus case. They wanted the fund to give more favourable conditions to landowners than the law initially provided. When they tried to give this instruction, it was not approved by the Supreme Court, and it had to be stopped. The intention, as I read it, with this proposal is to do the kind of instruction that was attempted at that time, now possible – that is, to get it inside instead of outside the law. We think it's a bad idea. We recommend that the proposal be rejected. First of all, we believe that since the Information Society's fund is a self-owned and independent legal entity, it must be that the property of the Fund has been funded by itself and not by the State. We believe it is wrong that the state should place stronger leadership on this fund than other funds in the form of regulations, laws, etc. If you're going to use the way you manage the fund to achieve political goals, you're going to have less money left for what's the main purpose, that's to make the best of the information and the spirituality. Then we also believe that there should be a rather sharp distinction in the policy between the tools available to solve specific political problems or challenges. We believe that the Information Society's fund is an example of something that is not a political instrument. It's primarily to do things other than solve the challenges we in this room think we should solve. If you break down this distinction, you end up in a situation that, in the Right's view, is not desirable. There are other and more relevant instruments to be used if you want land anchors to be given more favourable conditions. The most nearby would be to amend the Landfill Act, possibly using the budgets. But using the Information Society's fund and instructing the administration of it, we believe is a bad idea, and we recommend, as I said, that the proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1556	Constitutional changes are also policy issues — in particular constitutional changes are political issues, I think. The debate today has shown this in many of the issues we have been debating. The Constitution of Norway is primarily a political document. The political issue on which this draft constitution was based is not really about the Information Society's fund, but the political backbone of the proposal and the debate is about Santa Claus. Earlier today, in the debate on the right to vote, reference was made to the winding-up of the Husman Service. I think I'll almost go as far as to say that Santa Claus is the last remainder of the housekeeper's service in Norway. The fact that people don't own the plot of their house doesn't belong anywhere. An area that you might have stilted, maintained, developed and spent money on for maybe 40 and 50 years, so you do not have the right to own it. The Santa Claus Institute had never been adopted in the world today. That's why the last government, with Minister of Justice Knut Storberget at the head, wanted to clear up issues that had to do with Santa Claus. And that's where the Information Society's fund comes into the picture, as one of the country's largest landowners, and accumulating a number of properties. I don't have a number on all the Santas that attach an empty space to the Information Service fund, from which I have been contacted over time. I think I would say – not just think I would say quite strongly – that the Enlightenment Fund has no honorable history in terms of how they have treated many Santas. In fact, it has often not been possible to communicate directly with the Information Society's fund for the Santa Claus parties, because the Information Society's fund has only communicated through a lawyer, and there are lawyers from recognised law firms. The little man has not had a chance in meeting the Enlightenment Fund, one has felt completely powerless. Therefore, the previous government adopted an instruction given by the Royal Resolution on the redemption and regulation of the fast fee in fast conditions in state-run and state-run businesses, including the Information Society's fund. So one wanted to clean up the old-fashioned Santa Claus Institute. Then we all remember that then we got the debate: could the government also leave the instructions regarding the Information Society's fund? If so, the learned will fight. Here I say «learned» consciously, for that dispute or at least the disagreement – it was enough in civilized forms – went all the way to the Supreme Court. The case was dealt with in plenary in the Supreme Court in May 2010, where the Supreme Court divided. The majority believed that such an instruction was contrary to the then § 106 of the Constitution, now § 116, but a minority of four thought it was not in conflict. But there is no doubt about who decides in the Supreme Court: The majority determines – at least in the Supreme Court. Now, if possible, the Information Society's fund became even more difficult to deal with for the landowners, because the fund could now rely on the Supreme Court's judgment. It was even said that one had the protection of the Supreme Court – protection, nothing less – one had the protection of the Supreme Court to walk forward like one did. Then there was one possibility, namely to change the Constitution. That is why the draft constitution, and therefore the debate here today. Before I go on, I think almost I'll ask the question: What is the Information Society's fund? What is this strange construction, and what is actually the ‘good that is benefitted from the clergy’, as it is called in the current section 116 of the Constitution? Then we have to go back to the Reformation. Or, if we're going to find the origin, we have to go even further than the Reformation, but at least let's start with the Reformation here today. Because then the king confiscated all the property belonging to the church, but the arrangement for levying taxes and outsourcing continued. The property was then exploited by the clergy, as it was called, so the priests were to have rights to the properties and get rental income from the properties. The revenues were then to be used for church purposes. This was regulated by the Law on the Information Society's Fund in 1821, so formally the Information Society's fund did not exist in 1814, the law on the Fund came some years after the Constitution. But the world has changed since 1814 and 1821, just listen to the name: the Information Society's fund. Yes, because the fund originally funded the educational system, that is, the school system. It's not like that today -- fortunately, I think we should say. Before I go further, I will also quote from second-voting in the Court of Justice plenary in 2010: ‘In my view, the substantial changes that have occurred in the Fund’s tasks since 1814 must also be weighted. As a first-rate point, the fund has retained very few of its original tasks today. The state and the municipalities have taken over the entire financial responsibility for the school system and universities, and also cover the most important of the church's expenses. Even for the limited purposes of the Church, the Fund is still intended to provide, the Fund's resources are not sufficient and the fund's return has gradually been reduced to an integral part of the annual appropriations allocated to the Church over the State budget.» And on the other hand, «In conclusion, it must be said that it is today the State and the municipalities which essentially care for the purposes of the Basic Law § 106 was intended to protect, not the Information Society's fund. In such a situation, I believe that the government – as the senior administrator of the fund’s values – must be freer to decide what is sound management than would have been the situation if the fund continued to fulfil all the objectives of the constitutional provision.’ Just the minority in the Supreme Court that said is the point of the whole debate and the point of the Constitutional proposal. The situation in which the constitutional provision was intended to protect has changed completely. The State must be able to influence the management of the fund, taking into account the current situation, which is completely different from that in 1814 and 1821. It must then be possible to take into account what is best for society as a whole, and not just what gives the most return for the fund, i.e. purely profit- maximising considerations. So, finally, the basic bill is not about changing the fund of the Information Society, neither the purpose nor the structure of the fund. The Information Service Fund shall continue to provide grants for church purposes, even if it is also substantially financed by other means, and the Information Service Fund shall continue to provide housing for priests in the Norwegian Church. But the proposal is therefore that it must be possible to take other social considerations in terms of how the fund is managed. Therefore, the Constitution should be amended at this point, and the proposed Constitution should therefore be adopted, and I therefore refer to the proposal in the nomination of the Workers' Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1586	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1589	First I want to comment on the post for the previous speaker a little bit. He commented on the Santa party. I perceive the speaker so that he believes that the learners are fighting on that matter. It is not possible to say now, when the Supreme Court has taken a final decision in the matter. Then the Supreme Court has spoken. This case, which involves proposals to amend the Basic Law § 106, in order to amend the basic statutes for the disposal of the Information Society's fund, may be regarded as contrary to the prerequisite for the establishment of the Fund in its time. Over time, a number of the purposes for which the provisions for the benefied goods of the clergy, as it is called, and which were intended to be taken over, have been taken over by the State and the municipality. However, the Information Service Fund is a self-owned and independent legal entity. Thus, the State does not have ownership of the fund and its portfolio. If the Storting wishes to achieve specific policy objectives, these must be achieved primarily by means of ordinary law or budgetary decisions, not by instructing institutions such as the Information Society's fund, which do not have the primary purpose of being a policy tool. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will not vote in favour of the proposal and will also refer to the rapporteur's statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1598	Paragraph 116 of the Constitution, former paragraph 106, first sentence, reads as follows: ‘As well as sums purchased as income from the goods which have benefited from the spirituality, shall be used only for the benefit of the clergy and for the benefit of the information.’;» The proposers propose to amend this as follows: «The King shall ensure that the sums of purchases and income of spiritual goods are used in the best interests of spirituality and in the best interests of information, and that they are managed as determined by the Storting.» This is no small change – this is a significant change – and I would like to explain why we see it this way. The provision as it stands today implies that the purchase price and the income from funds and properties owned by the Information Society's fund can only be used for the best of the mind and for the benefit of the information. That's the way it is today. The proposers claim that they do not intend to change this, but at the same time they show that because of the restrictions on the use of the Fund’s resources, they can hardly be considered as an integral part of the Treasury. However, the Fund is subject to the overall management and governance of the State. In practice, the management of the Fund by the country has also been subject to strong constraints. The limitation in the use of the fund's resources laid down in the Constitution § 106, now § 116, has been interpreted in such a way that it also ties in with the management of the fund's assets and properties. In the view of the proposers, this is not clearly enshrined in the Constitution. According to the proposers, there is reason to ask whether it is right that other matters cannot be taken into account, for example: social considerations in a broader perspective than those which are of the best interest to the mind and to the benefit of information, including in the management of these resources. Here there is a disagreement, and as also mentioned in the comments on the case, the question was about the management of the Information Society's fund up in the Supreme Court in plenary in May 2010. The case concerned an instruction given by the Royal Resolution on the redemption and regulation of a fast fee in fixed conditions in state-run or state-run establishments could be relied upon by the Information Society's fund. The instruction meant more favourable conditions for the parties than under the Law of Santa Claus. That is, the government in the management of the fund's properties had not only taken into account what would maximise the fund's profits, but also what was socially beneficial and beneficial to the owners of the fund's properties. The question was whether this was contrary to the Basic Law § 106, now § 116. The Supreme Court divided, as has already been said, into a majority of nine judges and a minority of four. The rapporteurs give reasons for their views, inter alia: with reference to the minority. The Christian People's Party agrees with the majority. The proposers believe that the State should be able to stand freer in the management of the Information Society Fund than the majority of the Supreme Court has stated. We don't share that view. The proposers consider, inter alia, that: that greater consideration must be given to what will be in the best interests of society as a whole. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that this case reveals an actual real disagreement in the view of the fund's actual use, and not least reveals a disagreement as to the ownership of the fund itself. The proposers claim that they have no intention of altering the fund's resources to the best of its spirituality and to promote the information, but there can be no doubt that the proposal is clearly in favour of the forces which the Fund believes belong to the State and that the government is to dispose of the funds. Here we disagree. The Christian People's Party believes the fund should remain the Church's property. Here we still stand on what has been our line all the way, also earlier when this matter has been discussed, and it follows from this that we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1619	Now I have no great hope that this post will tip the majority in the storeroom any other way than as it stands in the position, but just to make it right for the afterlife: I agree with what Thorheim said, that the case got its solution at the hearing in the Supreme Court, at least legally. I have never doubted the decision in the Supreme Court – absolutely not – but I would like to say that the matter has still not been resolved politically. It is Storting's responsibility to ensure that we have a law that works, that is in line with time, and that is in line with the policy that we want to pursue. That's why we thought it was right to change the law at this point. Because there are provisions in the Constitution about that, it was also right to change the Constitution, we thought. I just want to stress that no one argues that the Supreme Court could take the decision they made, but since they did as they did, we believe it is necessary to amend the Constitution. Then the proposers have submitted the proposal in three different alternatives. That's what the setting refers to options 1B, 2B and 3B. I just want to make it clear that the Count in his article referred to suggestion 1B. What the Workers' Party and SV have today proposed is proposal 3B in the setting. So it sounds something different than what the Count referred to in his article. Only to make the proposal right – what has been raised today – reads as follows: ‘Treasures and receipts of spiritual goods, which shall be used only for the benefit of the clergy and for the benefit of information, shall be administered by the King in the manner determined by the Stortinge.’ It's not right, as Gruvan said, that the government should dispose of it. No one has suggested. The structure of the fund, the scope of the fund and the use to which the revenue of the fund is to be used are not affected. It has to be the way it is, but it has to be the management of the fund. It is not a matter of anyone taking the funds from the Information Society's fund and using them for other things. I just want to make it clear. It is therefore a proposal on how to dispose of the fund. It is still to be used only for the benefit of the mind and for the benefit of the information, but we have argued that it should be managed by the King, that is, the government, in the way that the Great One has determined, so that other social considerations can also be taken into account in the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1631	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1645	This is a matter where the majority of the committee is quite a word button. That's because there's one argument to go against the proposal, as we see it, and that's that it's okay as it is. All the members, with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, state that today's deadlines and the organisation of the presentation of constitutional proposals adequately respect democratic principles. The majority of the Committee is satisfied with the manner in which the Stortinget organises its work on constitutional proposals and does not wish to change this. We therefore propose that the proposal should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1652	Let me then just briefly record the SV's suggestions in this room. The Constitution and this legislation existed at a time when there was less media, less opportunities for disseminating information, and it took longer to provide public information. And of course, you can discuss whether people's information is going much faster today than before, but at least it's that the possibility of reaching out widely with major controversial issues is of a completely different class today than it was when the Constitution was created. It also means that the time to ensure a public change of words about controversial constitutional changes, which is taking a huge amount of money now, is less needed today than it was in the past. That makes us happy that you have half a year, six months, as it says in the proposal. We are therefore promoting this proposal. We see that it's not going to be blithe today, and I also heard the representative Jette Christensen use the classic conservative entrance: we think it's okay the way it is today, so we won't change it. I think having an additional opportunity would make it possible to promote more Constitutional proposals. So you can always say that if you have something wise to think about, you can think well in the first three years of the ageing period instead of the last one. But we don't see any good reason why you shouldn't also have the opportunity in the fourth big deal for a period. That is why we are promoting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1659	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1662	A brief remark. Firstly, I would like to express some sympathy with the representative of Langeland, former SV meeting, for the problem he addresses, namely that it is not so easy for the voters to be aware of what constitutional proposals exist, how crucial they can be. The system of the Basic Law itself, which also the representative Holmås was in, is adapted to a society where the information flows flowed slower, to say it cautiously. Now there won't be a majority to do anything, because I think that even if we voted in favour of the proposal by the representative of Langeland, it wouldn't do much to remedy the situation. The reason why I take the floor is that I want to draw attention to something else that has to do with public information. It's that habit or practice – I hope it hasn't been the last one, that it's just an unusual one – that now, of course, a majority of Constitutional proposals are being presented, by a conglomerate of representatives, so that the usual guidance is finally lifted, which is to see which parties are behind the Constitutional proposals. So it turns out that it's above a choice, it's coming up for treatment. One thing is that it may be that the representatives do not still exist in the assembly, that is not the big problem. Because even if they do and the parties are there, it turns out that they do not vote for the proposals they have notified. There may be so many representatives that the voters get the impression that this is almost cross-political, at the borderline of apolitical, purely technical proposals, and then one finds out only afterwards that yes, but this is a reinspected SV proposal or a whole-odd Right proposal. So by the way we make proposals, we don't give the usual guidance that many voters use to see who's behind the proposals. I'll almost call it a fake friend, because they're not there when you need them, that's when the proposals are to be adopted later. So these remarks before we vote in favour of the proposal that exists from a minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1671	I believe that the representative, Mr Tetzschner, also knows that'reinspicka' is not the most appropriate parliamentary expression. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1687	Document 12:38 for 2011–2012 proposes to amend the Constitution so that the Stortinget meets on its first working day in September, i.e. one month earlier than today. Since there are major elections in September every four years, it is proposed that this change should not apply to the years in which there are major elections. Then Stortinget will continue to meet on the first working day in October, as today. In accordance with today's arrangement, Stortinget meets each year for a new session on the first working day, including Saturday, in October, as stipulated in the Constitution § 68. The majority of the Committee, all parties with the exception of SV, proposes that the proposal be rejected. At the same time, it will be evident from the comments that there is some understanding of the arguments put forward by the proposers. These are arguments which might be in favour of an opposite conclusion as to what the Committee has come to its conclusion. I would therefore like to spend some time reviewing some of the assessments that have been made in this matter, and why the Committee has concluded as it has. Proposalers have shown that the amount of work before Christmas and before the summer end is often very high, with meetings well over midnight. I guess that's an observation we can all recognize in. In the view of the proposers, a slightly longer session scheme could contribute to a more even amount of work in the year as a whole. Representatives often spend the summer visiting their counties and communities, visiting businesses and schools or taking summer work. At the same time, the Storting needs a more balanced distribution of the workload associated with the proceedings in the Stortinget. This is a main reason for the proposal. The proposers point to some practical implications related to starting the session earlier, but they nevertheless conclude that these impacts could have been addressed within a new scheme. At the same time, the proposers recognise that there are arguments against bringing the Storting together earlier than the first working day in October, namely the fact that there are major elections on the second or third Monday in September. The period from the election day to the first working day of October appears to be a reasonable time for the number of votes to be checked and for the quality assurance of the election. However, the proposal takes account of the fact that, in the years in which there are major elections, the Storting should be brought together at the same time as today. Another practical consequence would be the need to adjust today's practice of the solemn opening of the Great Britain to coincide with the King's speech and the government's presentation of the budget. However, it can be argued that this should not be an insurmountable obstacle. A speeding up of the solemn opening of the Greatness would mean, on the one hand, that one would prefer to speed up the speech of the throne and the presentation of the budget accordingly. It could have some practical, but not insurmountable, implications for the government's budgetary work. I think we should acknowledge that today's system is intended for a different time with other means of communication for the representatives. The question is, however, whether a slightly longer session would have contributed to a smoother working time. It's not safe at all. The central question here is whether there is a need for a constitutional change. So it's the case that the Storting already has the opportunity to meet in September today. The spring session lasts until the start of a new session. It is therefore not necessary to amend the Basic Law in order to have an active wholesale job even in September. It depends entirely on how Storting itself chooses to put up its work, how Storting itself organizes and disposes of time. It is not dependent on a constitutional change to ensure optimal progress in the work at Stortinget. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that active work is also being done in different arenas during the non-full-time periods. Although it does not occur in the main hall itself, it is nevertheless a high level of activity, but may not be equally visible to the general public in the form of plenary sessions in the main hall. At the same time, it should be mentioned that it could be relatively complicated if the plenary part-session was to be fully operational in the middle of a local election campaign. A clear majority of the Committee has found that the Storting has sufficient basis, flexibility and the necessary facilities to organise its work in an appropriate manner. The majority therefore consider that a constitutional amendment is not necessary at this point and do not endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1710	Let me start by taking up the proposal. Then it's done. Norwegian society is said to be at a standstill in July, and that is quite right. It is rare to try to carry out heavy processes internally in a group or to try to implement organisational changes, either in schools or elsewhere. Now it is said that schools are a special case, but in companies it is sending out an e-mail to someone in July and asking for a response to a hearing, the same as telling you that you really do not want an answer the next time. On Storting it's a little special, because we've organized ourselves so that it stays still for 3.5 months. In the middle or at the end of June – this is probably 17 June this year – we have our last meeting date, and until 1 October it is not big meetings. There's a referendum meeting at the end, but in that period of 3.5 months, it's not big meetings. I would argue that there are three main problems with this: one is that it is problematic given that the state of Norway should be able to take effective, flexible and good decisions and have effective, flexible and good decision-making processes. The second is that it's a problem for democracy, and the third is that it gives the impression that staging representatives live a sloppy life with more vacation than everyone else, and that we even allow ourselves to. All three things I would like to address. I would like to stress that one of the ways to do something about this is to change the Constitution, because I agree with the case rapporteur that there are alternative ways to do this. I still think changing the Constitution is one of the ways to do it, which I will go into. Then I'll look at alternative ways to do something about this. Let me start with the problem of effective, flexible and good decisions: from October to December, these ten weeks in the fall, there is a dense period where the budget is centered – everyone knows who has been sitting on the Stortinget. All consultations and contacts with organisations, businesses and others are mainly linked to the budgetary process that is taking place, especially during a period of minority administration. With majority government, there's a little bit more tough, but with minority government, there's more 'action' on the Storting – if there's a chance to use that expression. This means that our time as guttering representatives goes to this work. But it also means that in many of the long processes that go under state control, government and government give notice to outside actors – such as businesses, underlying agencies, developers and others – that if you're going to expect to get through something, you're going to have to stay away. So, if we're going to take things in Stortinget, we have to keep them away from the processes that are being taken in the autumn. Let me give you an example: PUDs, the treatment of plans for the development and operation of oilfields. There is a clear instruction from the Ministry of Oil and Energy that PUDs should be dealt with in the spring, not in the autumn in connection with the budget. This means that all the deadlines for oil companies are set for treatment in the spring, and if you do not achieve that treatment in the spring, you have to wait one year – with the great economic consequences it may have for an oil company that is involved in those processes. We experienced very clearly – and I experienced it very clearly – that there was a significant time pressure in dealing with the Johan Sverdrup case, the largest expansion that has taken place on Norwegian pedestal in the foreseeable past. There was a considerable pressure to reach the deadlines, because if the deadlines available from the department were not met, the whole process could be shifted by one year, with considerable economic consequences. This is an example of a case in which we would have had the opportunity – if we had had better time and put more time in the fall, if we had started in September as the Constitutional proposal suggests, or would have liked earlier – to say clearly: Well, we have the time window about the spring, but we also have a time window about the harvest to take a proper treatment if we see that the process shifts something. That is the one side of the matter, which I believe is important to emphasise. One has a problem with a few budget matters in the autumn and another kind of matter in the spring. It means that someone is not in time, getting an inefficient decision-making process. It also means – everyone in government knows – that you have an enormous pressure to reach the deadline available in spring. If you don't reach the deadline at some point in April/May, by getting things run through in government, then you know that it's actually pushed out indefinitely. Because you also know that the probability is great that you don't get to treat it in the autumn, and then it tends to be in the spring after. Had we had more time in the harvest, so that the harvest could be used for more than budget – also to deal with major issues – we would have had a better chance of getting good decisions and had more time to get things from the government. That's the one side of the case. The other side of the story is about democracy. I believe that during this period of government, we have seen several examples of cases being promoted late, that a majority who like to negotiate in advance decided to run things through in a way that gives people, the public, too little time to look through them thoroughly and look at the major consequences of them. They don't have enough time to make recordings in good time for hearings. It also gives us too little time to deal with the issues in Stortinget, because we get this pressure that it should be passed in the shortest possible time. There are two consequences: the one is that we, as depositors, are given too little opportunity to ask questions and to dig into matters. The second consequence is that we get less time to negotiate for the good solutions. I think both of these things pose a problem, and that is a particularly big problem for smaller parties, because smaller parties know that they are small. Very many of us usually sit alone in the committee. All parties, except the Workers' Party, the Party of Progress and the Right, shall have only one representative in the Committee. When we then get a bunch of representatives, climate proposals, an energy message – from my committee – to be dealt with in an extremely short time, it is a democratic problem for the smaller parties, but it is not the big democratic problem. In the hearing on the Energy Communication, half of the hearing bodies said they felt they had had too little time to get into this document, which the government had spent 2.5 years developing. They had actually only got a few weeks to get involved in this broad work, which required time. It was similar in the Committee on Transport, where we had the whole railway reform last year. It was dealt with in such a short time that, in my opinion, it was undemocratic, and the great minority clearly stated that this was an undemocratic procedure, and that we were given too little time to do so. If we had the time in September to deal with it, we would have had the opportunity to push on it and allow ourselves more time. So I mean this represents a democratic problem, both because we've rigged up so that the harvest has the budget, and the spring has other things, and because we have death and life – both in government and otherwise – are going to ‘driving’ things through before the summer and get too little time. If we look at the workload and how it fluctuates over the year for us who are magnification representatives, there is no doubt that it would be better to spread it a little bit. So to the last moment, which is the question of the sloppy lives of the free and large-scale representatives: I remember very well when the presidency decided that instead of having ‘free weeks’, we changed the way this was discussed on our websites, so that now it says that these weeks are ‘at the disposal of committee meetings’ etc. It's about making reality in a different way, and the reality is, of course, that big business representatives do a lot more than sit in meetings with the Storting. But all of us who have been here for a while know that one can't create any proper meeting places that really involve all the parties when it's "free" or time is set at the disposal of others. It's just to forget. There are no committees which have made significant progress on matters in the second half of August and in September. It's not like things are running in that period. It is not that broad seminars are organised with broad ideas about natural diversity or other things, as we do in the period when there are big meetings, simply because one does not get the opening up of representatives necessary for it to be fruitful enough. That's what I think is stupid, and that's why I think – once again – that's what it's talking about, that we should reduce that period, that is, start the Stortinget earlier in the autumn by changing the Constitution in a real way. So it gives the impression, and there's a look about it, that we have 3.5 months of vacation. I know we don't have 3.5 months of vacation, but there's a good idea out there. I think the teachers are struggling to say that no, no, these eight weeks that they have free are not free, but accommodation. Now I don't want to call what we're doing for 3.5 months for "suspension", and neither is it, but it's a good thing that it's quieter, and that it's not the ordinary progress of lawwork and bulking. It is more up to the individual representative and what is jointly arranged of travel and that kind of thing for the committees, that's what drives us. When one thinks that almost a third of the year – continuous – is without big meetings, it goes without saying that it should be completely unnecessary with all the 20-hour days that we have in May, if we had the ability to distribute this work better over the year. It's also an argument that we should do it this way. So to the Countess and the comments of the majority of the committee: it's very clear in the majority of the committee's comments that there are already opportunities to do something about this today, and I would like to invite you to a discussion about it. The way to do something about this today is the presidency decides, after consulting all the team leaders, that we have regular meetings in that part of the year where we don't meet today, that we follow the schools and use the second half of August and until 1 October. Then we have meetings, then we have ordinary progress on matters. Then we get a completely different workload and get the opportunity to take a good part of the inter-pelling debates, the emergency treatment or the energy message. The Energy Communication in the Energy and Environment Committee is being taken in the spring because they say that we can't wait until October to start with giving the recordings to Enova, they must be clear before that. This would have been no problem at all if we carried out the work in August and at the beginning of September instead. We could, but we do not, because the Presidency of the Grand Duchy has chosen not to use the opportunity provided by the Constitution today, which is contained in the Grand Duchy's Rules of Procedure, to meet in that period between the second half of August – or from 1 September – and from 1 October to bring matters forward and have ordinary deliberations. I see that it is not a majority for what we are proposing. That's all right now. It's stupid now, but it's okay now. I'm dealing with it. I 'beliter' me, as we say in Bergen. I'm going to agree to promote this proposal again towards the next majorization period. I would urge all those who share my reality of the problematic aspects of today's system, to go to their parliamentary leaders and to their representatives in the presidency and say: we should have a more flexible handling of matters. We should have a less rigid programme than we have today, with budgets for the autumn and the other things in the spring, and with an enormous speed towards the summer. Instead, we should set aside more time at the beginning of the harvest to have ordinary meetings, ordinary debates and ordinary proceedings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1750	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1753	I take the word to say that I disagree with any of the Committee's statements in its position. I actually think I would say that I want to distance myself from some of the things that the committee writes – even an overall committee. I quote from the setting: ‘The Committee points out that representatives often spend the summer visiting their counties, communities, businesses and schools, or paid summer work.’ I do not know myself again in such a description that they often take paid summer work. I assume that these are the wordings that originally stood in the draft representative. But it kind of gives extra weight when the committee writes it, even unanimously, in the vote. I've been at this house for quite many years, and I don't recognize myself in that situation. It may have happened exceptionally that some large-scale representatives have taken paid summer work, but that is not the situation. And at least it's not right that this happens often, as it says in the setting. I think we should be very careful about writing this. First of all, it's not right, and second, this is to give the right to all of them – yes, I won't call them anything – but all of those who write in the comment fields and elsewhere about the so-called long summer holiday of the big business representatives. By writing that way, in my opinion, we contribute in many ways to legitimizing those who had to claim something like that, and we know that that's not right. It was essentially just that. I don't recognize myself in that wording. I simply assume that there was a mistake on the part of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1767	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1781	First of all, I want to say that it is actually the representative Abid Raja from the Left who is the case spokesman in this case, but when he had to travel in a tomb, we agreed that I would keep the case chairman's post for him. It is easy, because there is a joint committee behind the comments, and there is a joint committee that opposes the proposal. The corresponding proposal to amend Constitutional Law § 75 has been dealt with twice before, both 10 January 2008 and 11 January 2011, and both were rejected, against some votes by representatives of the Progress Party. I agree with the proposers that the prevailing framework conditions are important for Norwegian business. On the other hand, both I and the entire committee disagree with the proposers because there is a need to introduce new constitutional travel agencies to ensure long-termity and lock political decisions for longer than is currently possible through ordinary majority decisions in the Grand Duchy. The Committee is also of the opinion that a constitutional regulation proposed by the proposers may, in some cases, be counterproductive and, for example: prevent new, necessary reforms. Nor does the Committee support the proposers when they believe that the current parliamentary and constitutional instrument is insufficient and that introducing a new ‘semi-constitutional’ form of decision-making will ensure the need for long-termity and stability, while ensuring the necessary flexibility in the decision-making process. The concept of ‘business framework conditions’ is often linked to decisions on tax rates and forms, but it is more so than that. For business, it is important that general economic policy is always adapted to the current economic situation in time. If there's a crisis, you might think that you might need to reduce taxes or increase taxes. It depends on the nature of the crisis. But if a semi-constitutional decision is then committed to not doing so, an actual crisis cannot be met. In a global economy, we know that a crisis can often come faster and less conservative than we used to in the old, more closed economy. For this reason, semi-constitutional decisions will also prevent governments from meeting the realities of the economy in a way that provides a good framework for business. Framework conditions are, as I said, more than tax decisions. A Joint Committee recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1797	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1812	I'm not going to spend very long time so late in the day, I'm just going to say something short about the majority comments and why we in the Right have concluded as we have. In the original proposal, it is proposed to establish the basic legal capital and the ear as a Norwegian currency unit, on the grounds that a sovereign State will have full power over the monetary and monetary unit. It can hardly be said to be particularly provocative to establish that it is appropriate with dollars and cents as a currency and currency in Norway, but it does not necessarily mean that it is wise to enter it into the Constitution, with all that it entails. We believe that it is unwise to do so, and we recommend that the proposal be rejected. First of all, it is not that the full right of access to monetary and coin systems requires a person to specify the monetary unit in the Constitution. I actually don't see that coupling at all. We also have full right of access today and would not be given a greater right of access if we had approved the proposal here today. Secondly, there is no tradition of legislating the currency of our European cultural sphere. The proposers refer to the United States and their basic laws on dollars as a unit of money, but the background in the United States was to set minimum standards for any new states that wanted to be taken up in the Union, and can in no way be compared to the situation we have in Norway. Thirdly, there may be situations that might make it in our national interest to have the same flexibility that we have today, that is, the money unit is based in the central bank law rather than in the Constitution. So I think I'm going to get an attack a little in advance and say that it doesn't mean, of course, that Right does want the fastest possible introduction of the euro or another currency to replace the dollar and the ear. That means exactly what we're writing in the notes and what I'm saying now, that any future economic crisis can have dimensions and facets that we can't expect today. It will then be an advantage if the central bank and the government have the most tools at their disposal. At least that won't be a disadvantage. With that reason, as rapporteur-in-Office, I would recommend that the proposal be rejected. In the next case, on the foundation law of the Bank of Norway, it has a different history. It has been stated in the Constitution in the past. It is also more common for countries in our cultural sphere to have a constitution for their national central bank, and we recommend that this proposal be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1831	I take the floor, almost for the sake of the protocol, to say that there is a collective working party fraction in the control committee that joins the majority in this vote. So you might say: Total fraction – it is strange since the undersigned is the proposer of this proposal. But the reason why I and the other members of the Committee of the Labour Party are in favour of this proposal is simply that the rapporteur has done a very good job of writing clear comments, which does exactly what the rapporteur says: slim down the message and give a clear message as to what this proposal is all about, and not least – in the light of the rapporteur’s comments – what it is not about. I am against Norway introducing, for example: euro. But this proposal is not about that. This proposal will not go to our right of access. This proposal will not give us more opportunity or protect us from any less opportunity to pursue the fiscal policy that has been Norway's success recipe for many decades, namely to be able to use economic policy as an adjustment both for unemployment and for the allocation of opportunities in this country. I'm to be able to have that opportunity. At the same time, I am also in favour of the majority vote not to approve this proposal because you have to take account of adjustments that you need to make in the future, which you necessarily do not have an overview of today. That is why it makes sense to vote in favour of the majority, which says that this proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1838	It is very easy to get an overview of this proposal. It's very simple, it's a slim message. It's as simple as the Norwegian unit of money is a penny, and the crown is divided into a hundred cents. It is entirely in the tradition that we have in a number of regulations and is a brief message. For the Central Party, conducting an economic policy is the responsibility of the Stortinget to – conduct an economic policy for the benefit of Norway. Our whole history has shown that it is a great advantage to have a currency of your own, because the currency will then be in a close and dynamic relationship with the economic development of the country. It is so essential to have the close and dynamic link between economic development and currency. Historically, we have repeatedly learned that a currency of our own is necessary for example. contributing to full employment. Today's challenge fully demonstrates how important it is with a currency of its own adapted to our economic situation. There is something very small in the discussion – the link between the currency and the economic situation. Had not the current government had its own currency, one would not have had the most important means of contributing to greater employment and less unemployment. So it's very special that the proposal is not being adopted. But there is a desire here to have an opportunity to make changes without going the way about the constitutional change it will involve. In our opinion, constitutional protection is essential and will create predictability. From Skutle, we are talking here about the fact that in the event of an economic crisis it is important not to have it constitutionally. It is precisely in the event of an economic crisis that it is essential to have a currency of its own that is then adapted to the nature of the crisis – as in Norway. So that's for the Center Party no argument. We got a clarification here from the Right Party by not now working to get the euro into Norway as quickly as possible, sail if we are not in the EU. It's a nuance in relation to what it's been before. After all, the Right Party strongly wants membership of the European Union, and it is these forces with the Right in the head that are at the forefront for Norway to adopt the euro as a currency in Norway instead of the krona – the sea if it is not part of the EU. But now we've made it clear here that one no longer has the goal to get it as fast as possible, but still has one as the goal. Well, it's a clear proposal, a simple proposal from the Central Party, and I'm taking up the proposal of the Central Party for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1851	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1854	First of all, I should just like to make a brief reference to the fact that SV also supports the proposal to reinstate a decision on the central bank in the Constitution. However, I would like briefly to say to the second proposal that I believe that the representative Lundteg makes a big mistake if he interprets the lack of support for the proposal that lacks support for the EU view of the Central Party, because absolutely all the conceivable combinations of views on the EU/EEA that exist in Norwegian policy are represented among the parties that do not support that proposal. Nor is it that the proposal says that Norway should have its own currency. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Norwegian monetary unit is a krona. The crown is divided into a hundred ears.’ It is a different proposal than any proposal that Norway should have its own currency. It is true that Norway has had its own currency throughout all time – at least in modern times – but what the monetary unit has been, we have in fact implemented changes in Norway in the past. I can't say that there's a particular good reason why we're going to have exactly what monetary unit we're going to have in Norway. It's home in other legislation, like today. On the other hand, having a central bank with the tasks that are, as one of our central social institutions, belongs to the Constitution. It is also clear that, for all the decisions we have to take in connection with the debate on EU membership in one way or another, procedures must be as they always have been. So to the extent that someone now invites that this has to do with procedures: we're doing with what we've done with the previous proposals; we're preserving the procedures we have today. That is why I think it is most appropriate to interpret today's missing conclusions on this proposal as if it were simply about the matter, about the proposal itself. And then SV's view is that it's not right that the money unit should be part of our Constitution. In the short words, I give myself. We've probably annoyed the rest of the Storting enough when it comes to speaking time today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1868	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1882	This case is a cross-political proposal on the constitutionalisation of the Bank of Norway as the central bank of Norway. Such a constitution is not new. Already in 1814 the bank was written into the Constitution, and § 110 then stated: «Norway retains its own Bank and its own Money and Coin Services». The wording of § 110 was fixed until 1911 when this paragraph was used for the foundation of the State Reserve Fund instead of the Bank of Norway. And the Bank of Norway has not been constitutionally established since then. Norway's Bank is one of the oldest central banks in the world and was founded in 1816. In Sweden, on its side, they have the oldest central bank in the world, from 1668 onward. Sweden’s Riksbank has been a constitutional party and has been mentioned in the form of government for several hundred years. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member from the Left, refers to the constitutional nature of several of the other overall social institutions in Norway, and it is natural, in the majority’s view, that Norway’s Bank, as one of the major social institutions, is also mentioned in the Constitution. The majority point to the fact that Norway’s Bank is more closely regulated by the Central Bank Act and that, therefore, the Constitution has no implications for the function or role of the Bank of Norway as a central bank. This one remains unchanged. On this basis, the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal for a new section 33 be accepted, so that the provision in bookcases and new Norwegians respectively reads as follows: ‘Norges Bank is the country’s central bank. – Norway’s Bank is the central bank of the country.’ It is assumed that the member of the Committee from the Left himself will argue that the Left does not agree with the proposal for the constitution of the Bank of Norway. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation, as it appears from the position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1904	Firstly, for the sake of the Minutes, I take the floor to say that the Labour Party is going to vote in favour of the majority proposal, but I am also taking the floor to draw attention to the comment from the Left. Left writes that they ‘refer to the majority’s observation that a fundamental law of the Bank of Norway does not have an impact on the function or role of the Bank of Norway as a central bank’. And then what I'm responding to is, "This member," from the Left, "is accepting naturalities and additions that have no real meaning in the Constitution." Central social institutions that are part of our central government are not naturalities. I would like to remind you that when we discussed and went through the constitutional review up against the anniversary in 2014, some of the points were to upgrade the Constitution and take in more human rights, but also to give a clearer picture of what Norway looks like, how Norway is governed, and what major institutions Norway consists of. You should be able to read and understand Norway better by reading the new Constitution. I feel that this proposal will be a part of it. Saying that, as a matter of principle, you don't include naturalities in the Constitution, and mentioning a social institution like the Norwegian Bank as it does, I think it's strange. I also believe that there is a wrong interpretation of the task of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, namely to adjust and modernise the Constitution to be a place to go to learn about what Norway looks like. It would be better to include this paragraph that the Bank of Norway is the central bank of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1913	I will first join in what the previous speaker, Jette F. Christensen, said about the Left's remark. It is exactly the same understanding that the Centre Party has: the Constitution should show itself in a good way so that most people can read and understand Norway better. In my opinion, it is a poor comment from the Left when one says that legislating Norway's Bank is to legislate for reasons of course. There is no reason to keep any long posts other than to support what the rapporteur has said. Norway’s Bank was shiped in 1816 and has previously been incorporated into the Constitution. This constitutional proposal, which we are now discussing, is based on a state law and historical decree on the fundamental law of the Norwegian Bank, which the Ministry of Finance, of all, made the admission to 2011. The work was done by Professors Eivind Smith on the Legal side and Aanund Hylland, Social Economy and Decision Theory, at the University of Oslo and delivered on 22 December 2011. The distribution is included as an annex to the draft Constitutional Law. It is a simple paragraph that is set up with Section 33: «Norges Bank is the central bank of the country». I just want to end by saying – not everyone is aware of it, and it is important to get it in the Minutes – that former Secretary of State Morten Søberg of the Central Party of the Ministry of Finance has had a strong commitment to the matter and has done a thorough job to come up with this draft Constitution for a decision. I want to commend the work done by former State Secretary Morten Søberg, who hopefully now leads to the required two-thirds majority today and therefore becomes section 33 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1924	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1938	Let me start by saying that I hope this is not an example of the fact that a very important work that the National Auditorate has done over a long time in an important matter comes so late in the day that we are not told exactly what we are going to do. There are many issues and many issues that we deal with in the Control and Constitutional Committee, one comes and the other goes, to say the same, but it is necessary that we manage to maintain focus and concentration, especially considering that it is obvious – again, I would say – that a very thorough, thorough and proper work has been done by the Riksrevision. It is true that in this case it is concluded that it is to be annexed to the protocol. But it has a common side, and that is that an overall committee – mainly – ends up with the recommendations that the Riksaudition has and that are thus made in the vote. There are alternative comments in this case. I will now give an overview of the matter in my speech, and then I assume that the alternate colleagues and representatives of the Control Committee will explain what they need to find in addition to what I am going to say. I have already said that this is a thorough work on the part of the National Audit Office. I'm careful to say that, because I understand how much work it is, and I want to thank the Riksrevision for a good and – I would say – an important report. It deals with the study of authorities’ efforts to promote energy efficiency in construction in Norway. It covers the years from 2009 until 2015. One of the main objectives of building policy is to achieve well-designed, safe, energy-efficient and healthy buildings. It has been a goal for the Storting to significantly reduce the use of energy in construction by 2020 by legal and economic means, and not least by means of information. The energy efficiency improvement involves measures on buildings enabling the same comfort or production to be achieved as before, but with a lower energy use. Central government instruments for energy efficiency improvement in buildings are the building code, Enova’s support schemes, the basic loans of the House Bank and information on the schemes. As we know, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has the primary responsibility for building policy, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which has the primary responsibility for facilitating a comprehensive and comprehensive energy policy. Then to the realities. As the Riksrevision report now shows in relation to the objectives set by the Stortinget that there will be a significant reduction in energy use by 2020, the findings made by the Riksrevision are serious – again – because they show that the legal instruments for the energy efficiency improvement of existing buildings are not working and that the economic instruments only lead to a small reduction in energy use in buildings. Enova’s grant to professional buildings has only limited effect, and Enova’s housing effort has little effect. The basic loans of the house bank have a limited impact in a short time, and – eventually – there is still a great need for information to people on energy efficiency improvement and for better coordination of information from the department. All of this is reflected in the report. Then we are back to what we have experienced a little too often, that the goals that Storting has set – in this case, using energy-enhancing measures in our building production – do not work as intended, that we are far away from the goal, and that it is difficult to achieve it. Then I have to say that the Committee is very pleased with the recommendations of the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is now reviewing and seeing whether Enova's support schemes are working and actually lead to a reduction in the use of energy in construction. The Committee stresses the need to increase significantly the awareness of existing aid schemes. I see that the council is sitting here, and that's good, because this is something addressed directly to his responsibility and his department. The Committee is very surprised that no better information has been made available to users on the actual aid schemes. Among other things, the Riksrevision study highlights that the basic loans of the House Bank are very little known. Information on the scheme is unclear and scarce, and to a small extent meets the needs of housing owners to improve the energy efficiency of their housing. It is also important, in the Committee's view, that the construction industry be well and widely informed about the different schemes in this field. The construction industry has an important role to play as an adviser to households. Housing companies often use construction trade actors — and craftsmen — to improve energy efficiency in carrying out refurbishment work. That's why it's also important that the construction industry knows well the arrangements that actually exist, and that's not the fact today, as it appears in the report. These are a lot of critical comments, but it reflects the report that the Riksrevision has delivered to Stortinget at this point. It is an overall committee which broadly agrees with these conclusions and also with the recommendations made in the vote and which supports what the Riksrevision proposes as the way forward. It is to hope that a treatment here in Stortinget will lead to the government taking this very concretely and following this properly, and that we will ensure that we have the means, which we have put at our disposal, and which are intended to achieve the objectives set by Stortinget. This is also, of course, an important environmental project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1961	Let me first say that I appreciate the review of a complex subject by the National Audit Office and believe that the Committee has raised important points from the study. This theme – energy efficiency improvement of construction – has many stakeholders, there are many points of view and also many answers. There is not one absolute truth about energy efficiency improvement. However, I would like to stress that we in Norway are good at improving energy efficiency in buildings. Let me stress that there are a few countries that have an energy-efficient building mass like us. New buildings are more energy efficient than older ones. Slowly, but surely we're building a more energy efficient building stock. We have had strict energy requirements for construction for a long time, and they have been reinforced further since the Riksrevision delivered its report. The government has followed up the climate agreement with new energy requirements for construction from 1 January this year. The requirements make construction 20-25 pst. more energy efficient than before. Although the energy requirements of the building technical regulation apply primarily to new buildings, they also have an effect on existing building mass. The legislation shall not regulate all work in an existing building. If the energy requirements were to be fully applicable to smaller construction works, there is a risk that large additional costs would be incurred without any particular energy effect. Energy requirements do not apply only in the case of main conversion — it is important to point out. The requirements of the Planning and Building Act apply to all actions subject to application where they are relevant, i.e. when they fulfil a function and have an effect. However, many argue, as the Committee also stresses, that the legislation on existing buildings is not clear enough. This also brings forward the Riksaudition. The Ministry has given SINTEF Construction Research an opportunity to identify the practice and understanding of the Planning and Building Act in relation to actions on existing buildings. For many it is undoubtedly unclear how the legislation is to be understood. I therefore take with me the findings of the National Audit Office and the comments of the Committee in the further work on the legislative design. The House Bank has recently developed a basic loan counsellor for upgrading. It's going to make it easier for good projects to get a loan. At the same time, the basic loan is important in order to ensure more energy-efficient new dwellings. The Ministry is now reviewing the Basic Loan Regulation and will look at how the scheme can be optimised both for new dwellings and for remedial projects. The House Bank has launched two investigations aimed at providing better knowledge of how to design the loan base of the future. However, it is important to bear in mind that other factors affect the demand for loans. Good access to credit and low interest rates in the private market reduces the need for basic loans. The Nordics spend a lot of money on refurbishment – about 70 billion. kr every year. However, there are relatively few who at the same time take the opportunity to make the dwelling more energy efficient. The competence for energy efficiency in the construction industry varies and in many cases is deficient. We're working on this to do something through the low-energy program. The programme is a cooperation between state agencies and the construction industry. They provide training for craftsmen, cooperate with the construction trades to provide information to local craftsmen and consumers and to provide training materials for the construction sector. Studies show that knowledge of energy-efficient construction has increased in the construction industry in recent years. The National Audit Office makes clear recommendations to strengthen coordination between the actors in the instrument. I think this is important that we see legislation and other instruments in the context. I have therefore chosen to launch a work to strengthen the Directorate of Building Quality, DiBK, as a national competence centre in construction quality. The bank's professional responsibility for the environment and energy is transferred to DiBK from 2017. DiBK will then be able to coordinate regulatory development with information measures in a different and better way than today. I would also like to stress that there is good cooperation between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Our underlying offices also work well together. Energy efficiency in construction is a complex theme, with many actors. The instrument will be in continuous development. We take with us the comments of the National Audit Office and the Committee in the further work on instruments for more energy-efficient construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e1997	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2011	We are now to deal with call and distribution decisions for 2014-2015. This year there was a total of 192 welcome decisions – compared to the previous year when it was 82, and 25 years before it again. There are many decisions that have been sent from the Storting, and there are many that have not been properly followed up. The Committee has sent letters to the Enlarged Committees concerned by the call for proposals. To a large extent, these committees have put forward calls for proposals in their committee configurations, and it is therefore natural that they also consider the follow-up to the government. Opinions and comments of the Committee under the individual Decisions, where appropriate, have been referred to. We have chosen to comment on decisions where we believe that the follow-up has not been completed or satisfactory. What's good is that the government has changed the time of submitting the shopping message. It is appropriate that the message be sent in January of the following year, as it may have taken a little longer after the decision has been taken. If a call for proposals has been followed up by a review and/or a licence proposal in the Ministry's budget proposal, it may also be referred to and reproduced in the message. It will contribute to a more holistic reporting on the follow-up to the call and distribution decisions of the Storting. So the Committee asks that it be made active in the future, so that the next notification will also be made in the following year, and that it will address the follow-up of decisions taken in the 2015-2016 Grand Prix. Of 192 decisions, there are 68 decisions on which we have made comments. Some of them are in an annotation form, but most of them are not. There are very many, I thought. You can wonder what's the point of getting a multiple in Stortinget if things aren't done and followed up. From the 2013–2014 session, there are still three decisions awaiting follow-up from the government before they can be confirmed. I don't think I'm going to go into all the decisions, it says it's neat and neat in our settings. I'm just going to go through a couple of decisions that we're waiting for. For the Ministry of Finance, there is country-by-country reporting, where a majority in Stortinget asked the government to assess the monitoring of reporting agents under the LLR Code. The ministry writes that one will return to the follow-up to the decision. Then we sent letters to the finance committee and asked them to consider what was said, and they wrote -- now I can't read the whole record, but I'll read a little bit of it: ‘Although the Financial Committee recognises that it is difficult to assess additional requirements for adequate information that can make unsolicited tax adjustment visible, also in the light of and the additional economic and administrative costs that this would entail for those subject to reporting, the Committee would like to highlight the importance of continued rapid progress in achieving even greater transparency in capital flows in the international capital market. The Financial Committee considers that country-by-country reporting requirements are an important contribution in this context and considers that the government should give priority to this work.» We, as the control committee, refer to this, and we are waiting for a response from the ministry, which has warned that one should come back to how one should follow up the decision. The same is true of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is an important proposal. It says: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on the Third Additional Protocol to the Convention on Civil Liberties in 2015.’ The Foreign Affairs Department stated in letter of 16 December 2015: ‘The Government will notify the Storting of this matter during the spring 2016 session.’ Unfortunately, we in the committee only have to write that we are waiting, because we cannot see that this matter has come to the Stortinget today either. I want to end by saying that there are a lot of decisions, and there are a lot of people who aren't following up. I don't think that's good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2054	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough review of this matter, which has not called so much attention. There are three decisions that I would like to comment on – there is one under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and two under the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. Decisions under Ministry of Agriculture and Food 437 from 3 March 2015 is replaced by the following: ‘The government is asking for better food labelling schemes to be initiated by the government, which also imposes requirements on the labelling of origin of meat products and dairy products.’ When that matter was before the Economic and Social Committee, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, said that it had not been followed up – and so on: ‘Food labelling is essential for consumers. Nor have proposals for a daily food portal been followed up, despite the Storting's clear decision and intention." The Control Committee says here that we “consider on this basis that the decision has not been satisfactorily followed up.” We also have Decision No. 52 of 1 December 2014 of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, with regard to: «The Government is asked to design measures to improve the framework conditions of the non-profit service providers in competitive tendering.» So here we have the exact same situation. In its reply to the Control Committee of 7 April 2016, the majority of the Economic and Social Committee, with the exception of the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, said that this was not sufficiently followed up – and so on: ‘In this context, better action on the road is needed to give these organisations the place they deserve.’ And the control committee refers here to the opinion on the decision in the letter of the nutrition committee. Finally, we have Decision No. 246 of 11 December 2014, which also applies to the tendering conditions of the non-profit service providers, where it is called: «The Government is asked to design measures to improve the framework conditions of the non-profit service providers in competitive tendering.» Similarly, in the same letter from the Economic and Social Committee of 7 April 2016 – The majority of the Economic and Social Committee, all except the members of the Right and the Party of Progress, indicated that this was not sufficiently followed up and stated: ‘In this context, better action on the road is needed to give these organisations the place they deserve.’ And on this basis, the Control Committee considers that the decision has not been satisfactorily followed up.’ There's a recurrence here. There is an overall nutrition committee, with the exception of the members of the Right and Advance Party, who say that the Storting decision has not been sufficiently followed up. I expect that what has been written here by the Control Committee is taken seriously by the government, and that we get a message back on how this has been followed up, so that we can see that the Storting's will is carried out by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2098	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2104	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2111	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:13 [[withdrawal of title and title]] The Right Party and the Progressive Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2127	The proposal from the Left was not accepted since the unrivalled majority of two thirds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2148	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it. II lapses as a result of voting on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It's votting over I and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2172	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2187	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Document 12:4 and Document 12:4B – Constitutional proposal of Hallgeir H. Langeland: Constitutional proposal 4 in book goals and neonorsk – § 12, first paragraph, sentence, option 1B, § 50, first paragraph and § 61 – are accepted.» [[introduction of 16 years of voting rights]] [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2206	The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2221	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Eirik Skutle on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:7 [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2240	The right has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2255	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Document 12:3 and Document 12:3 B in book targets and new Norwegian — Option 1 B — acceptable». [[more transparency on Norwegian participation in the war abroad]] [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2274	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 148 votes were cast in favour and 16 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17.34.29]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2283	President! I should have voted against it, but my vote was not recorded. I was a little too slow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2288	Then there are 148 votes in favour and 17 votes against – and the Committee's position is thus welcomed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2295	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Board Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Document 12:11 [[Prohibition of the production, introduction, deployment and use of nuclear weapons in Norway]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2311	Proposal No. 2, from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens say: ‘Document 12:11 [[Prohibition of the production, introduction, deployment and use of nuclear weapons in Norway]] As a result of the vote on file No. 5, this proposal lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2324	The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2339	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:12 [[Information Service Fund]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2358	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2373	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:9 [[extension of the deadline for proposing amendments to the Constitution]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2392	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2407	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:38 [[The size coincides one month earlier]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2426	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2457	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:27 [[fundamental law fixing of crowns and ear as Norwegian monetary unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2510	The left has announced that they will vote against it. The other parties have notified that they will support the suspension. We'll vote by roll call. Those who vote in favour of the adjustment answer yes, and those who vote against answer no. The President will advise the representatives to remain silent during the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-24.ana.ud755e2576	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
