ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e35	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e42	Wide settlement on important issues for the country is an important quality in Norwegian policy. In response to major challenges, we demonstrate the ability to put small arguments aside and gather on solutions that are good for the country. Therefore, before Christmas, a broad majority of the Grand Duchy met on a series of immediate measures to address the refugee crisis and measures for good integration. An important motivation was to stand together, so that community communities in municipalities could also meet new tasks and challenges together, and not split up. The working party stands by these similarities. It was right of the Storting to give the government support in a difficult time. Since the conciliation was concluded, there is deep doubt about the government's will and ability to manage this broad consensus. The comparisons have not been followed up with contact and anchoring of proposals and policy. Reasoned questions about the 40 proposals made by the government at the Rome Christmas have been met with criticism from the government parties that the opposition is waving – and also the accusation that we are threatening the borders of the country. When civil society, such as: Representatives of the Church, who have asked questions, are met with accusations that the Church is destroying the welfare community. Both accusations are of course out of proportion and only revert to the government itself, but they are part of a pattern in the last few weeks that has weakened confidence between the Storing, the Government and important parts of civil society. Where has the Prime Minister been this week? Yesterday – in her first feedback to the conciliators – she came with a text message saying that the government is on the offer page about questions about asylum. And she continues at the end of the consultation period that these are big and complicated relationships, which the government will need time to go through – wise. Different government party figures have only sent different messages and argued against each other in the last few days. Is the Prime Minister able to keep the government parties together in this matter – and not contribute to more fragmentation and weakening confidence in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e55	Let me start by saying that I am very pleased that a large majority of the Stortinget last autumn agreed that there was a need to implement the current legislation on asylum and refugee policy, in line with the great change we see around us related to asylum arrivals in Europe – the great pressure we had last autumn – that we know we can get back to Norway. I'm glad, and I'm glad we have a wide-ranging deal about it. On the basis of the broad agreement, the government presented a consultation note at the Rome Christmas which had been out for consultation since then. The hearing period expired yesterday. A lot of input has been made from different hearing parties to this. It's time for the government to sort those recordings. I said when the consultation note was presented, that this is a real consultation on these issues. We will follow the intentions and the direction of the agreement in Stortinget, but we will also ensure that we sort – based on the facts and the system to be in the future – the recordings that have been made in the consultation process. That's why these are big and complicated relationships. I believe it is quite natural to send feedback to the parties at Stortinget when the consultation period is over. I note that the Labour Party's parliamentary leader has thought that there should be a dialogue with the hearing parties on an ongoing basis during the hearing. I have thought that it is reasonable to allow hearing bodies to make their views known. We have to go through it, and then we'll talk to both the conciliators and the rest of the Storting before we promote a proposition on restraints, in order to follow up the proposal that has been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e64	Of course, we should listen to the hearing, but this has not been the tone for two and a half months, since the November conciliation, and for a month and a half, since the December conciliation. There have been weekly reports to the opposition that it is winging, threatening the borders of the country, is unprofessional because it has asked questions about the cases that have been out at the hearing. The lots shall not be hearing bodies. We will deal with the matter when they arrive at Stortinget. The trust that lies in the agreement, which 161 of 169 representatives stand behind, is a great responsibility to manage, and here the Prime Minister has let one government party last week with serious accusations. We had to wait four days to find out if the Progress Party believes that there should not be Norwegian training at all in Norwegian reception. We have a finance minister who still will not comment on the invitation to the municipalities not to settle. This is going on as the hearing continues, and the Prime Minister is absent. I think it's weak leadership in a difficult and demanding time. There will be demanding decisions in the future, and the broad consensus of the Stortinget is something we can build on, and something that should not be weakened, as it has been for the last and a half months.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e71	The Prime Minister has not been absent. The Prime Minister has been in this discussion continuously during the last six months. It's not that even if we have a deal, the debate ends. I record that the Workers' Party has chosen to decide on proposals before the hearing period is over, and it may not be so strange that you get any questions from other parties and a certain discussion on that topic – if you decide before you have heard them, and before the government has promoted its final proposal. Debates and criticisms must be tolerated. I do not think we can expect the most challenging issue we have on the agenda today, namely the influx of asylum and the future integration, to happen without political debate – not least when there is a consultation round going on. Then it is also natural that the relevant Council of State comment and respond to criticism, attack and other coming. Then I would like to stress that it is the government's hearing notes that are out. The government dealt with this before Christmas, in December, and we are going to promote a proposition that is the government's proposition on behalf of both parties and in line with the settlement that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e80	There will be follow-up questions – first Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e83	It's amazing to hear the Prime Minister criticise the Workers' Party for having taken a stand on 2 of the 40 proposals that came up at Christmas. When we said that we were supporting the headlines, and later we said that we have to decide on each proposal, her councillor, Sylvi Listhaug, said that this was irresponsible, and that we departed from the agreement and were winged because we did not stand on all the 40 proposals. Now the Prime Minister says that the government itself should think about before they know if they're on the 40 proposals. This is not the first time the Prime Minister is completely absent from this debate. Last August, the government's Deputy Minister of State, Siv Jensen, called on the municipalities not to accept refugees. In 2015, the Right and Advance Party decided to accept 23 000 refugees and asylum seekers in Norway. These need to be helped where they are — and where they are — in Norway. Does the Prime Minister see that it is a problem that the country's Finance Minister goes out and asks the municipalities not to settle, when the Right and the Advance Party in the Government have decided that 23 000 will stay in Norway? Is this lack of leadership, or is it good leadership when the Minister of Finance does?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e92	What I think is most incredible is that the Workers' Party believes that having a political debate, when you go out with political views and you don't get an answer, is a lack of leadership. We have a lively debate on this issue. On the part of the government, we have put our starting point to the hearing, and then we're going to decide on the hearings. I record that the Workers' Party has concluded before the hearing period is over, but then they have to expect that there will be a debate on it. They cannot expect to resign from that debate on the way. Then I have to say that a rhetoric that the Right Party and the Advance Party decided that 23 000 would be allowed to stay is to bypass the truth in many ways. We are dealing with asylum applications based on international commitments and the law adopted by the Stortinget. It does any government, and we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e101	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e104	I am pleased with the letter sent by the Prime Minister. It can make us find good solutions, and it's the most important thing that we get a good integration. Then I hope that the whole government is behind the invitation sent by the Prime Minister. I guess it'll show up for the next few hours and the next few days. What is serious is that when it comes to the proposal that is now being heard, the government's own underlying etats point to gross errors, gross factual errors, and the UDI says: ‘We also understand that some proposals will not be in line with process requirements in national and European legislation. Furthermore, the relationship with international obligations is mentioned deficiently in parts of the consultation note.» So my question is: can we be sure in the wider dialogue that we ensure that we have qualitative work, to ensure both good integration and our national borders in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e117	We're all serious about the hearing and we're going to go through them thoroughly. The work that has been done on changes has been done at record speed compared to the fact that it is very difficult and complicated. So it could be thought that there are areas in the consultation that, precisely because of the recording, should be seen in a different way. You can see that from the recordings that have been made. It is not uncommon for this to happen in a consultation process. Nor is it unusual, for one who has been responsible in this area, that both UNE and UDI provide critical consultation opinions on the government’s proposals – they have done so under all governments – and perhaps pointed out areas where things have had to be done better. It is one area that is important: it is a proposal that has been promoted, which is a so-called force majeure clause. What happens if we are in a situation that is completely unmanageable in Europe? It is a proposal that is not intended to be used normally, and it will be a way to set aside some of the usual practices, even in relation to human rights issues. But it is in order to have a law that the crisis is complete in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e124	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e127	The center party was for it to be a settlement. We took part in the settlement negotiations, and we got behind the agreement. We believe that this is a demanding field, where broad and wise policy solutions are needed – both for tightening up and integration. But we see afterwards that the responsible state council has expressed itself in a way that creates unnecessary contradictions, and we believe that this is unfortunate in such an important and serious question. When that happens, we would have expected a bit of leadership from the Prime Minister and a willingness to put the matter in focus, not the political game. But I'm a little uncertain when I hear the Prime Minister's reply to the Labour Party here today, about where the will is to actually put the need for wise, good and broad solutions in focus. So my question is simply: why does the Prime Minister not take a stronger hold of the situation and help to dampen conflict orientation and instead ensure that the government comes with a broad and wise approach to all parties in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e136	I think it is important that we do not underestimate people's concerns in these debates. I think it's important that we have the transparency that this is a difficult field, and that there will be a lot of discussion about it. I think it's good that we have a deal that allows us to clear up the way we're going to legally work on the mitigation measures and in the broad sense of what's an important and serious area, that's to meet all people with respect and popularism when they get to the country, to contribute to good integration, as I said in my New Year's Eve. There are sometimes some challenges that we can't push under the carpet, and that worry people a lot. I think it is natural for a political debate to take place. The government has been very clear, for example: that the proposals put forward by the Oslo Progress Party are not the government's proposals and will not be. These are proposals that we have seen before, which are not part of the agreement that we have, or of the Sundvolden platform. Making political rhetoric as if it were something one should strike down every time – our policy has been clear that it is not like that, for example. in the case of closed reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e143	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e146	The size made in the fall two settlements, one about immigration and one about integration. While the government has gone much further than the comparison made when it comes to immigration, there has not been a single initiative when it comes to integration. What we are hearing is that the party of the Minister of Integration – with the tacit benevolence of the Minister of Integration and the Minister of Finance – will have closed reception for all, will not give permanent suspension to anyone, and will require everyone who comes here to renounce their ethnic identity. In fact, there is reason to ask questions about whether the government as a whole takes seriously the agreement on integration. The contribution of the Minister for Integration has been to claim that all those who are not afraid of the future because the number of asylum seekers is increasing are liars and that refugees are being brought into the gold chair. Does the Prime Minister share the repeated claims made by the Minister for Integration that there is reason to fear for the future of our children, and does the Prime Minister believe that one of these types of leadership provides the basis for good integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e153	I note that a state in the Progress Party, which has a policy that is not based on the basis of government policy, is being made an example of government policy. It's not like that. We are dealing with an asylum agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It mentions closed reception, it tells us very clearly that we should have some more closed reception points, but we should not open up the possibility that more people can be placed in closed receptions than is the case in today's legislation related to it. There have been clear policies all along, and it does not change even if resolutions are adopted in different political parties. The government is working on and following up the integration issue. Last night, the Minister for Integration went to two different events related to integration and talked about government integration policy. We have received a long menu of investigations and proposals that we are now going to review, and we are following the plan we informed Stortinget about this autumn. We come up with mitigation measures such as laws and changes, and then we come up with an integration message. It comes at the beginning of May, in parallel with the revised national budget. [[The President clubs.]] That's what the Stortinget was informed about this fall, that's the plan we're following, and we're working on the whole menu from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e160	That's it. Audun Lighthouse – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e165	When I see how the Prime Minister and the Minister for Integration treat their conciliators, it is very good to stand outside the conciliation. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what she said about'record speed', because that is correct, but it is also a fine concept of irresponsible urgent work. What we now see in the consultation round is crushing criticism – from heavy trade unions – of the government's work. Let me do a very specific example. If 20 000 people are allowed to stay in Norway, the Minister for Integration in the consultation draft assumes that 40 000 will be accommodated in total as a result of family reunification. In its replies to the hearing, the Central Statistical Office writes that that claim does not support immigration into Norway as we have experienced it to date. Then I wonder if the Prime Minister can clarify to the Government whether the government here serves us numbers by the way of entry, or whether you have any kind of coverage for the number that the government has used.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e174	The government – and I think that I have also responded to this before in Stortinget – is very aware that what has been the historical tradition is that a family reunification largely leads to an increase of approx. 0,7–0,8 persons on immigration to Norway. It's kind of a statistical fact, and there I don't argue. What's special right now is that there are relatively many men without family coming, and there's a larger share than before. It may suggest that there are several applications for family reunification, but it is stated in the consultation note that it can be – it does not say ‘will be’, it says ‘can stay’. We're always going to add up to checking these things. There are matters there, but a main reason to do something about family reunification is actually that all the countries around us are doing something about family reunification right now. In that process, once we've worked on it, one of the reasons has been that Norway should not appear more liberal, and therefore more attractive, than other countries around us, and when others tighten up family reunification, we should also tighten up family reunification.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e181	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e185	Yesterday, PST presented its new threat assessment. The world picture has, in recent years, been marked by terror and optional extremism. Either as part of a larger network or as individuals, people have committed terrible acts against civilians, and thousands of lives have been lost. Nor is Norway saved. Many people live with great wounds and losses after the July 22 attack. Terrorism has no limits. The threat of terror comes both from the right extreme and from the radical Islamic environment. In the PST threat assessment yesterday, they point out that the threat assessment has changed, from in 2015 it was likely that Norway would be subjected to terrorist attacks, that it is possible in 2016. The threat level has been reduced. It is good, but the PST manager pointed out explicitly at the press conference that there is uncertainty in the assessment and that the threat picture can change rapidly. The threat of terror against Norway is largely linked to radical Islamists, but the PST leader also says that the right-wing outside environment will have a greater focus in the coming year, among others. due to the increase in the number of refugees arriving in Norway. One must fight extremism and terror, regardless of which ideology it springs from. It is absolutely crucial to ensure the security of our citizens. Good measures must be taken to prevent, and not least other measures to combat, this brutality. How will the Prime Minister come up with measures, how will he assess the threat assessment, and what action will the government take to fight radical extremism here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e194	I think it's a pleasure to see that PST has gone down a little bit in its threat assessment, but at the same time it's important that we don't believe that it means that it's a huge change. The main reason for this is that some environments that have contributed to recruitment, which the police have investigated, have decreased. This is because several known Norwegian extremists, who have been foreign warriors, have been killed in Syria. This is because several extreme Islamists are imprisoned and waiting for judgment in Norway. That means that some of those environments are cracked up, and that's good. This means that part of the police's work has worked, that they have worked intensively on it. Then we also work on a broad front – and we have done so since the action plan against radicalisation and extremism was presented – mobilising the social resources to mobilise support and work in the municipalities to prevent radicalisation, and there are a lot of municipalities doing a good job. This is also why, for example: Oslo and Kristiansand have been involved in the international networks related to this; they have been involved as examples to work on this, and many countries have come and seen it. And we're based on the work done against extremism, i.e. to the right extreme forces, in the 1990s. It is important that the government's action plan against extremism and radicalisation is not just an action plan against Islamist extremes. It's also against all other groups of extremes. It is about making sure that young people who develop a way of working who are afraid of becoming either right-wing radicals, Islamist radicals or extreme left-wing radicals are taken up and involved in an environment, that they are providing a support device around them and trying to prevent that kind of recruitment. We always work with new measures, and one of the most important things we do is to work with the grassroots in Municipality-Norway to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e203	I'm glad of what the Prime Minister says, not least that we're content to see the sanity here. One of the evaluations after July 22 was that we had had too much attention around just extreme Islamist terror, and that we had underestimated the danger of right-wing extreme terror. This week we have, among other things: See that 14 people are arrested in Sweden for incitement to gross arson, gross abuse attached to asylum recipients in Sweden, and one has seized a range of weapons, axes and knives. This was a people with Polish citizenship, which was a real threat and a danger in Sweden, and it shows that we are content to think broadly and wholeheartedly. That is why my challenge is also what we now see. We are talking about action plans to be implemented, but does the Prime Minister also see that we must, on the legal side, think wider than what we have done so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e210	These are difficult questions in terms of the legal aspect. We are now working on the follow-up of police methods. It is clear that some police methods can be attractive to use just to get into extreme environments and investigate them, but there are some limits to privacy and surveillance, so it is important that we discuss breadth. We focus on these areas, for example: in the case of organised crime. Then it's important that we have wider international cooperation, because what we see now is that even if we don't have any leadership in the far right environment, and it's not perceived as potentially violent at the moment in Norway, it's clear that it's going to be a challenge if there's a bigger environment in our neighbouring countries. We know from the 1990s that there was a bond that existed and a cooperation that existed. We also have to look at the counter-reaction that PST also points to, left-wing radical extremism, because all of these cancers are close together. But the law road is currently more a question of police methods, and I am not ready to conclude if it is now in the Questionnaire. Those are difficult questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e217	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e220	Extreme environments, or extreme attitudes, are growing widely in Europe. The debate climate here in Norway, linked to the refugee situation, has become strong, and there is a great deal of polarization over understanding and respect for the opinions of others. Fears that many know about the situation must be met by leaders who show the way for a difficult time. We, as the country's leading leaders, have a special responsibility, and I will take advantage of the opportunity to give honor to the Prime Minister. For example: The New Year's Eve, as well as other messages that she has had to the people, has shown her way. We are now being tested on our positions, because fear can give rise to extreme attitudes and, in the ultimate sense, violent acts. How does the Prime Minister think that, as politicians, we can best contribute to a good culture of debate that does not negate the polarization and exclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e227	I think it's important that we have a good culture of debate between us. I think it's important that we don't try to suspect each other's motives. I think it is important that we also dare to know the anxiety that people have. I think it has a relationship with politicians who don't follow and understand, in the sense that one understands that anxiety – if it doesn't get addressed – can actually be a challenge. It's clear that if politicians in the political debate experience having a great deal of distance from what people experience out there, the turmoil they have, one might see that commitment goes elsewhere than to politics, and that's perhaps what we've seen it do in some countries, that it goes to more extreme movements. I think it's important that we behave as we should – having a people's culture is a good rule in all debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e232	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e235	National preparedness is important in order to deal with major emergency incidents and reduce the level of harm. We have experienced that painfully. The Djørv report gave clear advice on what needs to be done. A National Emergency Response Centre was one clear advice. The Stoltenberg government took a decision on Alnabru. The Prime Minister's own budget decided that an emergency centre could be built there. Nevertheless, the government has chosen to investigate other alternatives. The Minister of Justice has informed Stortinget that progress is on the rails. What these rails are made of, or where they go, we don't know. Empty options have not been clarified, regulatory measures have not been implemented. For the Workers' Party, it is most important that the Emergency Response Centre be put in place quickly. Five years have passed since 22 July – still no clarification and no deadline for completion. I assume that the Prime Minister, like the Workers' Party, still believes that we need a Emergency Response Centre and that it's urgent. The Prime Minister has been the chief safety officer for Norway for three years. Does she have a clear answer as to when a national emergency response centre is in place? If no: can she say when clarification will come?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e246	We're working on setting up a National Emergency Response Centre. We agree that it should be one of these. We have spent too much time on an alternative that turned out not to be good, because there was not a good enough quality assurance at the beginning of the project. When you see the development of the project, the site is simply too difficult and too small to meet the needs. In addition, it is contrary to some other considerations. It would have been clear if you hadn't made early jumps in this process because you had fast speeds. Now we're on track to get to an emergency room, but we actually have to make sure that it's all right when we're going to spend so much money on an emergency room, and it has to be possible that it's operating in the context. Unfortunately, it turned out that the solution that had been started did not work, and there were probably some hasty rounds associated with that choice, without it being quality-proof enough, or that the project was well thought out, because the size of the plot does not fit the task to be performed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e251	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e255	We have had a right-wing extreme act of terrorism in Norway from a person who has certainly experienced a great distance from the political change in Norway, and I believe that the Prime Minister will unequivocally state that any use of violence for political purposes is unacceptable – we all agree on that. The Prime Minister said to TV 2 last autumn that she was not concerned about the asylum industry in Norway, but it is PST – and has been for a while. It is also confirmed in the threat assessment now. Has the Prime Minister re-assessed the risk of right-wing extremes attacking asylum-seekers and asylum-seekers? What concrete action will the Prime Minister take to secure asylum seekers in Norway against extreme right-wing violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e262	What I answered questions about this fall was whether I feared Swedish conditions, also linked to asylum-based industries, in Norway. So far we haven't seen it. Even with what was mentioned in the original question, about 14 people who have been arrested in Norway, we have no reason to say that there are Swedish states. I also believe that it is the Prime Minister's job to be factual and not to speculate, not to contribute to more fear. It is, in fact, an important strategy that should not contribute to the import of more fear in these areas. It is clear that this can happen, and for the time being there is an investigation of some issues in which the motives for the actions taken are assessed. Some of the Swedish fires have been portrayed as right-hand extreme activity. Some have been, some have not been. So it's important that we don't take all the media images for good fish. There are also very good media assessments that some of them also have other causes. But it's clear, we can get that kind of thing, and we know that right-wing outside terror can grow bigger in Norway. That's exactly what PST says, and that's why the government is also worried about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e269	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e272	There are challenging times in the Norwegian economy. There's increased unemployment, and there's a lot of uncertainty around the country. Many of our main export companies in energy, fish, forests and tourism are located in District Norway. It has been a goal for the Storing and for previous governments to use all of Norway, and we have actively used the country’s instruments to help enterprises to create new jobs, new activity. A major project for today's government, in which they exert all their power, is for municipalities to merge – cost what it will cost. There will be a lot of rural businesses losing weight – quite a lot, in fact. We received notice from Ulefos Jernverk in Nome that they will lose 2.5 million. kr on municipal pooling, it will increase their costs. Yesterday we could see at NRK that Skistars in Trysil would get $4 million. kr in increased costs annually if Trysil became part of a large municipality. If you go a little bit further north, you can, for example, look at Karlsøybruket in Troms. If they become part of a large municipality, they will have increased annual costs of approx. One-eight million. kr. It is a fact that many district farms will have large, increased costs if the merger processes to the government succeed. So my question to the Prime Minister is, how can it lead to more activity, more jobs and more security that the government is much more concerned with merging municipalities than ensuring good framework conditions for Norwegian districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e281	In fact, the main task of this government at present is to ensure that Norway has a competitive capacity to help finance future welfare. We do that both for enterprises in central and for enterprises in the districts. The whole of the policy we're running is cutting costs for businesses. The wholeness of the policy contributes to better infrastructure, it contributes to more innovation, more innovation, it contributes to more skilled people in Norway, who will contribute to the implementation of the future, to the ability of Norwegian companies to participate in a digitised society and all that. So the sum of our policies is not district hostile, it is district friendly to businesses, because it will help them to have better competitive and framework conditions. When you change municipal boundaries, it can turn on some different schemes. It actually means that we can look at the schemes afterwards and then consider different types of measures. I can take a very specific example: when the municipality of Beer moved from Hordaland to Rogaland, the pig farmers were paid a little less per kilo, and they got a little upset about it. But I'm not sure if it should have stopped the whole change for better child protection, better school, better health care and the development of a better municipal structure. Instead, other tools have to be found to remedy it. When the government e.g. is as massive as we are in infrastructure, it is among other things. to cut costs for Norwegian enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e288	Norwegian districts have approx. 7 B.C.E. kr less in the employer's fee because we have had a desire to have an unbureaucratic and simple tool to create activity, create values and jobs for all of us, around the country. Differentiated employer charges have been a very successful tool. What happens now, as Jan Tore Sanner confirmed in a letter to Nome Municipality on 26 January, is that e.g. Nome municipalities will get $17 million. kr more in the employer’s fee if they merge and become part of a large municipality. It will hit individual businesses in concrete terms and go directly on the bottom line to a number of Norwegian businesses around the country, because this does not apply only to Nome. I understand that the Prime Minister doesn't want to talk about it, because you just want to get the light green, positive side of a possible municipal merger. But how can all the companies that now receive millions in increased costs earn anything on community mergers, other than rhetorical finesse from the prime minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e293	This is because the municipality can become more attractive to residents working in those companies because no. The 2 workplaces in the municipality may become more attractive to those who would like to need two jobs. There are many such effects that are incredibly important. District work places often say they lack skilled labour. They lack skilled labour. Very often you ask why young people who are educated don't move back. Well, that's because they need two jobs, not just one job. This is related to what kind of work environment, what kind of offers and what kind of development the municipality can provide to an entire family. But the rhetorical question back is: is it that because we have some limits on the differentiated employer's fee, it should stop the whole country's need for a better municipal structure? Will it stop us getting better professional environments, better service quality, better land use? I think that's going to be wrong. In that case, we will need to find other measures to help those enterprises, just as we have had compensatory measures in the past, when we have had to change the employer zones of other enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e300	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e303	It is important that there is an open and proper debate on what is the actual impact of a community merger on business. Differentiated employer’s fee amounts to 14 billion. kr in tax relief for municipalities and business combined, and SEK 7 billion. kr of them goes straight to the business community. There is no other regional policy instrument that is as important as a differentiated employer’s fee. It is a fact that the Sanner Council has said that there will be a merger with a municipality that has the highest rate, all municipalities in the new structure must have the highest rate from 2020. For companies investing with a long-term horizon, the framework conditions are very important in four years' time. This applies, for example: areas in Agder, on Sunnmøre, on Northern Moravia, around Lillehammer, around Steinkjer, around Tromsø and in Telemark. The Prime Minister may try to dismiss such a problem, or try to ridicule the involvement of the Centre Party, but is it in the government's interest to obtain the figures that show what some companies may lose on the merger?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e308	I fully agree that it is important that we have an open and prejudiced debate on the consequences of a municipal merger. I think we should look at both positive and negative sides. I fully agree that a differentiated employer's fee is an important instrument in district policy. That is why I spent a lot of time and effort as a municipal minister to ensure that it could be reintroduced when the EU had removed that access. And that is why this government has done a lot of work to ensure that we still have and have a broad map of differentiated employer poisons after the last revision, because it is a good and important district agency that we have used a lot of power to maintain. I think it's fine that we can review it and look at those border crossings. In some border municipalities you will be in different zones, and it will have consequences in the same way as the movement – as I mentioned – had for pig farmers from Hordaland to Rogaland. Because of our legislation, it meant that the farmers got a little less per kilogram for their pork because they were in another county. But then the question is, can we have other measures if we believe that the combination of municipalities is good? Can we then have other measures? I believe that we can, in the same way that we had measures to help companies when a differentiated employer's fee was removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e315	Stine Renate Håheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e319	The local government reform also has other factors linked to the economy, and before Christmas the government sent proposals for a new income system to be consulted. KS has now calculated how this will affect the different municipalities, and when we look at it, we see that almost all municipalities with population between 10,000 and 20,000 losses on government proposals. This is strange because the government's own expert committee thought that municipalities with just that population were a sufficient size for a municipality. So I know that the Prime Minister is above average interested in the municipal income system, so my question is simple: why has the government submitted a proposal that is so bad for this particular segment of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e326	It is important that the income system relies on the most objective criteria possible. There is also an attempt to do in connection with changes in the income system. What you've chosen is to take in something that the Borge Committee has been working out and put forward almost ten years ago, and that goes on a politically elected municipality size. If one chooses politically, it is not an objective size to be compensated for, because it is not in line with the income system. There have to be other criteria that do. That's why we've created an income system that makes distance and geography more important to several of the keys. Then there are several changes that are also made in the district key. This is at the hearing, and as I used to say, we're sending things to the hearing, we're getting recordings, and then we're looking at the aggregation. The main point is that the municipalities are as capable as possible of providing equivalent services to the inhabitants. The citizens deserve that it is not the municipality in which you live, which determines whether you get good services, but that it is the political choices and not just the income system that determines it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e333	Geir Sigbjørn Tuscany – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e336	There are now ongoing conversations across the country to look at the possibility of establishing new municipalities. The aim is to create better services for citizens, and then the conditions are very important. As you have already seen, many questions have arisen – around borders, size and population. Everyone is concerned that the business community should have good conditions, and the municipalities, for their part, depend on income to serve the tasks that are now to come. Tax is important, differentiated employer's fee is one element, and now we are going to work on a new income system. The KS has concluded that 15 large cities will benefit from it, and approx. 100 district municipalities seem to get out of it well, but then it's in between that all cities with from 10,000 to 15 000 inhabitants will lose. How does the Prime Minister assess this information?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e343	There are different reasons for getting these types of winners and losers because there are different elements of the new income system that have been presented. Then, as I said, after the hearing, we're going to go through and look at how to adjust to what's happening, but that's how when you change the keys today, there's going to be changes for the municipalities. So my questions back are: do we mean that today's distribution of income between municipalities is necessarily perfect? Does that cover the expenses? Are there equal opportunities to provide equally good services in all parts of the country? Is it the case that the income system today only covers objective differences between municipalities in order to give the same opportunity? I think that, in conclusion, we can say that it is not. There are many politically specific parts of this, e.g. that you get a basic grant regardless of whether the municipalities should have naturally been merged, and then all such changes will be a challenge – these are some challenges that I think lie there. It's not like they average the largest cities have the most money per head, it's also important to remember initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e350	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e353	The refugee crisis is not only challenging for Norway but has seen Europe and European cooperation and the community under strong pressure. 70 years after Winston Churchill gave a speech at Westminster College in Missouri – ‘an iron curtain has descended across the Continent’ – we see more than the contours of the fact that the same thing is about to happen again. Not only Norway, but also Europe needs wise, pooling and security-building leadership to deal with what is probably just the beginning of a prolonged escalating humanitarian crisis and which has the strength to reverse European cohesion for decades. This is a leadership the prime minister isolated is a leading exponent for both national and international, most recently with the gherkins conference initiative, wise instigators in public space, the refugee reconciliation she took the initiative in the fall – isolated because we have a professional minister who, in stark contrast to the prime minister in the rule, acts as a sort of spin doctor from an extreme opposition party, not as a spokesperson for a responsible government party in minorities. The Council of State Listhaug has contributed to the grievances I have, of course, shared with the Prime Minister that we should take seriously, rather than exercise the collective leadership we need in such a serious situation. Leading politicians don't fear future ones, but they see possibilities and find solutions. More than ever, it is important to impose international law principles and conventions and to take international responsibility. For a small country like Norway, it has historically been a very decisive and important contribution to making us the safe, privileged country we are all new to today. The question is whether the Prime Minister has agreed with the Left that Norway should do its best to ensure that the principle of international law is met by the crisis that the international community has to deal with, rather than being a driver to weaken them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e362	I fully agree that it is important to uphold principles of international law. At the same time, I think we need to take into account the seriousness of the situation we are seeing in Europe now. For the first time since we introduced the Nordic passport union, we have passport control between Nordic countries – so we have that on Øresund, between Sweden and Denmark. That is why I have also had a meeting, we have taken initiatives through the Minister of Justice, with what is called the National Ministerial Forum to discuss how we will deal with this situation in the future. It is important that we are united at Nordic level, and it is also important that we are united towards the EU in terms of the challenges. When I say that this is a serious situation, it is because the decisions taken in the EU in September, which were the start of getting a better and more structured system and perhaps making the Schengen borders work, do not work – so far. There is no registration of people coming to Greece, there is pressure on all the countries of the Balkans, there is border control between all the countries, and the Schengen system is at risk of collapse. Someone might like it, but I don't. I think it would be a big step back, and then there will be less sharing in the future – we should have had more. This is why there is a lot of work in the EU to find solutions to this. When I say this about the conventions, it is clear that if no other country ends up fulfilling them, if there are only a few of the countries, the pressure of the wave of migration will be so great that it will be difficult in our country as well. This is why the answer that the government has been building on is: more help in the neighbourhoods, more conflict prevention work, more focus on these issues in our foreign policy. That is why we took the initiative at the donor country conference. There are European solutions that are the main response to this, and then we must try both to preserve the humanitarian tradition and to have a functioning asylum system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e369	There was a reassuring and not surprising response from the Prime Minister, but it does not entirely match the current situation. Yesterday, the hearing period went out to the government for its follow-up proposals to the asylum settlement, and a number of hearing bodies believe that the proposals are poorly distributed. It has special international legal obligations. It was an important commitment for the Left in the asylum agreement that international conventions should be respected and that legal certainty for asylum seekers should be maintained, which is also explicitly enshrined in the wholesale agreement. We are equally fully aware that the opposite is the case in several of the proposals that the government has sent out on hearing - action. The question is whether the Prime Minister thinks that the proposals sent on the hearing are in line with these central premises of the big deal, and what are the prime minister's thoughts when a number of hearing bodies think that several of the proposals are not only poorly elaborated but are directly contrary to international conventions, which are today more important than ever, and of which the Prime Minister is also busy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e376	There are different types of proposals among the 40 proposals. Most of them follow the main lines of the asylum agreement, and there are some proposals that come as a consequence of what the government has done and that we think are right. Then there is a force majeure proposal, which I mentioned earlier in the Questionnaire, i.e. a proposal to be able to reject people on the basis that they come from a country in which they should have applied for asylum before coming to Norway, if the Schengen system does not work. That proposal will be presented to the Stortinget, and then you'll have to discuss it, but what I'm saying is that it's a crisis proposal. That's what happens if Schengen breaks down, if the power comes and we can't handle it. Then it's not certain that the principles of international law are going to hold. I think we have to take the seriousness into it over us. Then there are other boundaries to the discussion of international law and what it means. Hanne Sophie Greve was very clear on one thing in the chronicle she recently wrote, and that is that under the refugee convention you have the right to asylum, but it does not say that you have the right to choose which country to apply for asylum. We can't get into the situation that everyone has to choose country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e383	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sveinung Rotevatern.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e387	In the last six months, more and more European countries have been tightening up on asylum policy, with an explicit objective of stopping the influx into Europe. Should a case after arrival in Greece, which passed 50,000 in January, have had no effect at all. The most important effect is that countries that do not participate in the race to the bottom are left with a load of reception that they cannot take on their own shoulders because the community does not lift up. In the extension of this, we see that Schengen cooperation is riveting heavily in the linkages. Instead of working to share responsibility – Norway has so far not taken up a single refugee within the EU’s distribution mechanism – skip representatives of the government party and say that Norway should have Europe’s most stringent asylum policy. Does the Prime Minister agree that we must have Europe's strictest asylum policy? If so, how will there be a contribution to the non-interruption of Schengen cooperation, as the Prime Minister fears? And I would add, since she did not answer the question instead: does the Prime Minister share the concern of the Minister for Integration for the future with our children, and does he think, as the Minister for Integration, that we who do not do so are liars?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e396	Let me start with the general question of the situation — whether we have the strictest asylum policy. There are three things the government has said are important. One was getting the order of Big Forest. We have that right now. The second was to ensure that we can stop the influx of asylum seekers who will have to be returned – have a better return policy. The third was that we should not be indifferent to the rest of Europe, i.e. not more liberal than the other countries. I think that is actually a motive in today's situation, and I want to have more EU cooperation related to this. I believe that Norway should not go on a more liberal path. I am not saying that we should be the strictest, but we should not be more liberal than the other countries, because then the influx to Norway will increase. Do I share the unrest? I believe it is permissible to say that there are challenges with a massive and large influx. For example, Grete Brochmann has said that. She says that the welfare state will have challenges if the influx becomes too big. I'm recording that there are a lot of other politicians who are also expressing concern if we can't get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e403	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e406	It is very important for a small country to have broad agreement on our relationship with the outside world and not least on how we control our borders. For this reason, it has been good for Norway that we have had quite a broad consensus on the main principles of asylum and immigration policy. Both under the government of Bondevik and under the government of Stoltenberg, it was largely the same line that was passed on. That is why the Workers' Party was also involved in the major similarities between asylum and immigration policy, stricter control and good integration policy in the autumn. However, every day since then, Solberg’s government members have contributed to undermining this agreement – partly by producing the agreement as a blank mandate for everything the Progress Party should propose, partly by implementing the tightening-up measures rather than the integration measures, and partly by using a split language. When our party leader criticised this practice and said that this weakens the agreement, the prime minister of the VG said that it is “disquieting that the Ap wings are most important in the main and most important issues” and that “Big people have to decide if they want to help solve the major challenges”. Does the Prime Minister think that this is leadership and contributes to a settlement, or does she see that her lack of leadership also makes it more difficult to get broad settlements on these difficult issues that are so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e415	The government has taken the lead in this crisis. We have. We've made a plan, and we've informed the Storting quite detailed about this. We said in the fall that we are going to promote tightening measures. They are to be presented to the Storting so that they can be processed in the spring semester. With legislative proposals, it is always the case that they need to be consulted only if there are major changes. So we said we should deliver an integration message to review the whole integration policy. It comes together with RNB, and that's why we're now working on the long and large menu that the Stortinget asked us to investigate for it. At the same time, we work with small and large measures. In the budget, there are integration measures that aim to reduce the time needed to obtain recognition of education, to create new ways to identify people’s competences – there are many initiatives in progress. Then it's unreasonable, I think, to say that we've only looked at the mitigation measures. We follow the plan Stortinget was informed about in the autumn – we come up with measures that Stortinget can decide on during the spring. The integration message will come in May. And we've got a pretty long work list from Stortinget that we're going to sign out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e422	Geir Sigbjørn Tuscany – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e425	The new situation now with refugees coming, raises a lot of questions. The Christian People's Party is ready to join in and solve this, we are ready to take responsibility, and we see that we need new measures. We will contribute constructively to getting it in place. But I still want to take a child's angle on it. Both the Children's Ombudsman and the Red Children ask questions in three ways: Children should be re-evaluated when they are 18 years of age, regardless of when they arrived. There shall be limits to the real possibility of seeking asylum. There will be stricter rules for family reunification. If you look at this from a child's and a youth's point of view, it's clear that the world can look bad. For the Christian People's Party, the Convention on Refugees and Human Rights is a condition of action, and children's rights are the most important issue for the Christian People's Party. Does this concern the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e446	Yes, there are many of these issues that are difficult. It is difficult when so many lone minor asylum seekers come to Norway. We also had a summit there in 2009. At the time the government chose to make an arrangement where those between 16 and 18 years of age had a temporary stay, they did not receive a permanent stay. We have looked at the regulation that was made then, and we see that there is a danger that more who are coming are even younger than 16 years old, in order to build on the kind of temporaryity that was decided by Stortinget at the restrictions in 2009, but in a slightly wider area. Our main objective is that parents do not send their children out on such a dangerous journey. The hard part is that the better we do this, the more people are going to get. This is simply because as the gain increases, more will be sent. That's a little bit of our challenge. Our main point is that we have to try to stop the traffic we see today by children who do not need asylum and are to be sent out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e453	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e456	As some other speakers have pointed out, it is true that Schengen cooperation is riveting in the linkages. There is no doubt that there is a difficult situation in the EU, even in the countries participating in the Schengen cooperation. In this way, it is difficult because it creates major challenges related to the burden-sharing between countries. On the other hand, one must remember that there was also an asylum institution before the Schengen cooperation. It is not the case that the institution of asylum is linked to Schengen. But my question to the Prime Minister is whether she believes it is realistic to imagine a re-establishment of Schengen cooperation, as it has been, how long she thinks it will take, and also what the Prime Minister thinks of the ideas that have come from some EU countries that a so-called mini-Schengen should create regions within today's Schengen cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e463	It is true that the institution of asylum existed before Schengen and before the Dublin Agreement. There were several border crossings before coming to Norway. At that time, it was perhaps more difficult to come here to seek asylum from the European countries. But it was also the case that people were ashore by country and applied for asylum, and they were not returned. The Dublin agreement meant that the situation of rejection in one country, travels to the next country, and then you are in limbo around the whole European system, has partly stopped – I don't want to say that it has completely stopped – but because you take fingerprints and other things, you do. This has resulted in a more tidy relationship. What has been the main challenge in Europe is that, unlike Norway, many European countries have had no specific return policy and have not been able to return. We have also not been good enough, but we have managed to return more from Norway. In this way, we have seen in Europe that it has become a large black labour market and people without rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e471	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e474	One of the restrictions the government will implement within family reunification is to raise the income requirement to NOK 300000. ‘You have to be able to feed your own family’, as the Minister for Immigration says. And in the letter of consultation, the government itself also writes: ‘The maintenance requirement shall ensure that persons bringing family members to Norway can provide them.’ That's interesting. The Prime Minister himself has participated and cut off the child allowance for disabled dependants, and most of them receive significantly less than 300,000 kroner a year. Furthermore, according to the government's own figures, there are more than 1.1 million Nordics who make less than 300,000 kroner. In that case, what will the Prime Minister do for the 1.1 million Northmen who are obviously unable to support themselves and their closest – or ‘breadfoot their own family’, as Councillor Listhaug puts it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e484	The Prime Minister has also participated in the introduction of income requirements in the past. It's been evaluated, and the evaluation showed that yes, it's tougher for people, but it helps people get to work faster and get income. So that kind of requirement leads to faster integration, and that's one of the purposes of doing it. This is primarily about family start-ups, and the question is how many to pick up. It's a challenge if people can't feed the ones they bring in to the country. It was also a starting point for the previous government. The previous government also had increased income requirements as part of the policy they were working on, which we have pursued. Yeah, there'll be someone who doesn't get family reunion, because they don't have income. So is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e493	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e496	A few days ago, well-known representatives of the Stop Islamisation of Norway, Pegida and other extreme groups demonstrated in Oslo Centre. They were as usual few, and there would normally be no reason to care. The special thing this time, however, was that these groups did not do what they used to do, namely demonstrate against Norwegian authorities; instead, it was a support demonstration for the government, with particular emphasis on emphasizing the Minister for Immigration and Integration. Thus, the government has stated that the adherents of the most extreme policy of dealing with refugees coming to Norway have a sense of government appearance. That should worry the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister held one, I think, very good New Year's speech this year. It was traded, among others: on everyday integration. The Prime Minister appeared as a political leader should in a difficult time: gathering, with the emphasis on calming the mutineers, show people that she has a plan. The Minister for Immigration and Integration appears again and again in a completely different way: divisive, with the emphasis on sharpening the contradictions and playing on fear by telling people again and again that they have reason to be afraid. She puts herself in ways that support myths that most asylum seekers come only to enjoy and are not interested in providing. I think we're all concerned that the tensions and contradictions of Norwegian society can increase. Then the government's responsibility is to calm down the situation, and the Prime Minister often contributes to it, but at the same time let the Minister for Integration do the opposite. When the government itself keeps to two so radically different messages, it's a little funny to accuse the biggest opposition party of winging. That is why I would like to ask the very specific question that has been raised in very many questions here today: Is the Prime Minister really comfortable with the rhetorical Minister for Immigration and Integration in the debate over the past few weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e505	I have been clear that there are some of the statements that Sylvi Listhaug has made, both before she became the Council of State and after, that I do not agree with, and that I would not use. I also said that in the previous question hour, as an answer to a specific question related to it. So there'll be different types of rhetoric, but I also think you sometimes use a slightly different scale. When representatives of other parties say that they are concerned about the development of the labour market, they are concerned about the welfare state in the future if we get too much inflow, yes then they have also expressed a concern and a concern in the future. It is perceived, among other things: reflected. I think you sometimes use a slightly different scale on some of these statements. I believe that we are able to handle the influx we have today. I think it's serious if we get a very strong influx. I believe that if we had had an inflow at the level that it looked like we could get, with the estimates we had in the harvest, it would have been a serious challenge for integration and the system. That's why we also took action to prevent us from getting it. If we're to do what we all want, to make sure that all people who come to Norway are met with respect, that they are integrated into society, that they can contribute, and that they get to work quickly, there must be a volume that comes, that allows our device to handle it. Norway has some very good aspects for integration, and then we have some challenges. The biggest challenge is that it takes longer before people become self-sufficient in our society than in many other countries, because we have very few unskilled jobs. In many of the jobs that are traditionally unskilled — among others. The service industry, where there are many without training, often requires language, which is absolutely necessary. That's why it's more demanding to integrate into our society, and therefore it's right that we focus on meeting people with manners, making sure that they get the skills they need, but we must not underestimate that it's a challenging challenge in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e514	I agree with the latter, and that also means that the government should give priority and speed up its policy of integration in the future. I am pleased with the correctness the Prime Minister gives his own State Council. I think that is good, but I also want to point out that at the NRK opinion right now, State Council Sylvi Listhaug writes about the importance of getting facts out, and that honesty is the longest in the debate. At the same time, she writes a long text on the refugee crisis, where the word «refugee» does not appear, but where these people are consistently referred to as migrants. I think that is an example of how the debate is shaped, which undermines the facts in the debate. Erna Solberg has a responsibility for it, because it is the Prime Minister who has carried Sylvi Listhaug on a gold chair into Norwegian politics by giving her such a central position in the government. That is why I would like to repeat the question that Sveinung Rotevatn has asked twice: What does the Prime Minister think about the statement that people in Norway have reason to fear the future of their children because of the refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e521	I believe that my job is primarily to ensure that people have no reason to fear. If we do not achieve integration, if we get very many asylum seekers, if we do not take seriously that we currently need to tighten up asylum policy, if we do not take seriously that we need to have a better integration policy in the future, then the welfare level we see today will not necessarily be there in the future. Many more will be poor and unemployed in Norway. My ambition is to do something about it. That is why we are actually promoting proposals for tightening up. That is why we have said that we should have a better integration policy for the future – which will bring people back faster. That's why I'm glad there's a broad majority behind it. It is our policy to ensure that we counteract what is difficult with a large influx of asylum seekers and many as refugees. It is our job to provide for a policy that meets the needs, and then it is important that we also dare to do the restrictions – which I hope SV will also look positive when they arrive, because at some point the border control will not be there. There will be major challenges for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e528	There will be follow-up questions – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e531	If you have to earn $300,000 in order to feed your own family, Listhaug is so right that many should fear for the future of their children, because then there are many who do not earn enough. An unskilled KS-tariff nursery assistant starts at NOK 274 000. Even with eight years of service, he/she has not reached NOK 300000. An uninhabited caretaker obviously cannot feed his loved ones, and the prime minister has been there to care for them. Social assistance recipients in charge of dependants are not close to having at their disposal the sums of money. So why has the government landed at exactly $300,000? Is it probably a feeling of stomach from the government, or is there any reason why? The fact remains, and I didn't get an answer to that either, that 1.1 million Norwegians earn less than that. If so, what will the Prime Minister do for the 1.1 million Northmen who, according to Minister Listhaug, are unable to feed their loved ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e536	All these persons, if they have children or other dependants, will receive a range of benefits and services in the Norwegian community because they have low income. They will today – after this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, took the initiative – for example. have lower kindergarten rates. They will have free core time, they will have the possibility of housing support, and there will be many social arrangements at the top. The question is: when we allow family reunification in Norway, are we going to invite many into exactly the same poverty-smoothing measures we have, or are we going to say that it is initially a requirement for income? I want to say that it is today as well, and there are people who do not get family reunification in Norway, because they have too low income.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e542	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e545	It means something to put it into words, and it's noticed how a state council chooses to put it into words, and a state council says it on behalf of the government. Do you understand, the Prime Minister, that the type of rhetoric represented by the Council of State, Listhaug, makes it difficult, at least more difficult, to find reasonable settlements in the Grand Duchy, as the Prime Minister himself says she wants? If she agrees, will the Prime Minister now make sure to take a small cleaning job in the government's rhetoric especially in the field of asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e550	I hope that the Storting is most concerned with substance when the convergence proposals come, not rhetoric and the political debate, but what we are going to do for the Norwegian society for the future, how to control integration issues, how to control immigration into Norway. It may not be that, in the political debate, using a rhetoric that is not popular, the Labour Party or other parties should be involved in the conciliation to do what is right for Norway. It sounds a little bit like that in the debate. I hope that's not the fact. Then we have a political debate, and then there may be words that are not right, but when Sylvi Listhaug talks about that we are concerned, I want to say that she is not alone. It is therefore the case that the head of the Workers' Party and the party secretary at the Kartell Conference in November warned that the influx of asylum and migration could threaten the Norwegian model. I think they're right that there are some challenges to it. But there's a slightly different standard to say that it's okay to say, but to worry about children's future, it's not okay to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e557	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e560	We have reason to be concerned about the number of unemployed in Norway, and I have to say that I think it is mildly alarming to hear the Prime Minister now compare this concern with the rather violent and divisive rhetoric that the Minister for Integration is conducting. But I'll leave it now. I disagree with Erna Solberg, who says that in percent the unemployment rate in Norway is still low. 4.6 pst. is unpleasantly high, and the time off rises. In January, the unemployment rate increased in 13 counties. The Labour Party does not criticise the government for the low oil price, but we believe that the government is doing too little to meet the situation. Yes, Norway is to be converted, but not to a society with a high level of unemployment. There are effective measures to combat unemployment and one is the Workers' Party's proposal to extend the legislation on leave. But the government says no. The Right Party and the Advance Party insist that people be cancelled instead of being permitted, leaving the impression that increased unemployment has become the government's instrument of change. In the past, the Prime Minister has said that we should not lock in labour through permitting because other companies are thus not able to reach employees. That's not the reality of Norwegian businesses. If an enterprise has to cut down, it does, the permit is a more expensive way. Enterprises in Norway also report easy access to both engineers and operators. The problem is not to get access to the labour force, the problem is too few jobs. From the employee's point of view, this is also a bit strange. Why go off with low pay, if you can get another job? Vard has five shipyards in Norway and knows what migration is, but needs better law-making to keep its employees. This week, Ulstein Group said they're going into a situation where they have to cancel people they don't want to resign, because the permitting code is not good enough. Does the Prime Minister disagree with these companies, with LO, Norsk Industrie and now NHO, who believe that better rules of leave are an effective measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e573	Better rules of discharge can be important and good in given situations, and we should always consider when those situations are there. But it's not an answer to the unemployment challenge. There's only one answer to the unemployment challenge, and that's creating jobs, and that's what we're trying to do with our budget. We create short-term jobs through extraordinary actions and long-term jobs through the actions we have for innovation and innovation. Being on leave means going on a daily basis, and you're eating off your daily allowance period for periods of leave afterwards, so there's a way to be connected to the company, but there's no answer to the unemployment challenge in Norway. But there are a lot of companies that show that they want to retain that competence, and I have a lot of respect for that. I have great respect for the fact that companies that want to change and change want to keep the workforce that is competent and competent, and that is why we always have to assess the labour market situation. So far, employment in Norway has increased through this crisis. There has been an increase in employment, and it has not been as it was during the financial crisis, where employment fell in Norway. This means that there has been a demand for labour elsewhere, and then it is important to ensure that that labour force also comes to the new jobs, to the places where it is needed. But then the government has always said that we are going to look at the rules and follow labour market developments, and if employment does not continue to rise, there will be a reason to look at it differently. But I think it's important to talk about that the rules of leave may not always be the best for the employees either, precisely because you're eating off an unemployment strike in the future. This means that you have shorter time if it turns out that the new jobs are not coming, and that probably also means that you are in a less active relationship with looking for new jobs. The government is following this, but we don't have any signs that we're going to change now, but we're always following the labour market situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e580	It is difficult to interpret the Prime Minister's answer in any other way than that she believes that LO and NHO do not understand the best of their own members. It's great that she shows respect for the companies that want and need better permitting legislation, but that's not a sign of respect they need. They need action. I find it incomprehensible that Erna Solberg continues to argue against the proposal when the government has its own figures that show how good permitting can be. Nine out of ten come back to work. Eight out of ten come back to the company in which they worked. So Norwegian business leaders are ready to generate growth if the permitting rules allow them to retain the competence of businesses, but the Right and Advance Party say no. The companies are ready to transfer technology from the oil industry to new industries if well arranged, but the Right and Advance Party say no. Why isn't the government willing to do more to meet the increasing unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e587	The government is doing a lot to meet the new vacancy. We are now inside the second month of an expansive state budget. We have put forward a proposal for a tax reform that is now being discussed in Stortinget, which will contribute to a different investment climate, to the willingness to invest in businesses and the transformation needed for the future. We have short-term measures with a separate extraordinary package at the top of an ordinary expansive budget. We are committed to maintenance both within the railway and road sectors. We have large road investments in progress, which contribute to new employment and a high level of activity. So we've increased the innovation instruments by 2.2 billion. kr in relation to the 2013 budget, a huge shift for the commitment to industrial research and innovation compared to what has been the previous years. We do that because we also need to get the long-term jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e592	There will be follow-up questions – first Irene Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e595	When the Prime Minister visited the Eastfold Conference, she refused to change the decision on the fare, as a result of what she thought was pressure from Ryanair. This fee is not about green shifts, nor about Ryanair or against Ryanair. It is about the closure of Moss airport Rygge, which passengers from all over the East use. It is about 1 000 jobs related to Moss airport Rygge and 6 000 jobs across the country, which, according to the NHO, could be lost if the fee was introduced – consequences that were not investigated before the decision was taken. With a record 129 000 unemployed, more unemployed are the last thing we need. Will the Prime Minister take account of the workplaces and listen to the hearing opinions that are now coming into this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e602	The majority has decided that we should introduce an air travel fee. It respects the government, and we intend to implement it. Then we have a consultation round where we're going to hear how this is designed, the system and other related to it, but there's no need to send any new signals. If we are to implement the polluter-pays principle, we must implement it. It actually means that the polluter has to pay. This does not mean that it is just a concept adopted at national meetings, for example. at the National Meeting of the Labour Party. This means that the polluter must pay, inter alia. by charging emissions. We do that on planes, it's a huge emission from aircraft and air traffic. We have to take into account that we're going to go this way more forward. I have noticed with interest that the National Assembly of the Workers' Party said that an air fare should be investigated and evaluated. So it's possible it's convenient, when the government introduces something, that it's not that important. However, the principle should be that the Workers' Party should be involved in paying passengers for their pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e610	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e613	This is not a game – or a rhetorical game, to which the Prime Minister now submits – there are 1,000 people in Eastfold who are about to lose their job, thanks to a little thoughtful decision a late night-hour in this room because they needed to be housed. The government's own budget says that this will have no climate impact. But all of a sudden, when you found out that you were going to take this money, it had a huge climate effect. There are many families who will now lose their livelihood. Nina Bungum writes in Moss Avis: Both she and the man work at Moss airport, Rygge, both have to pay off a mortgage, they have to support the family – now they lose their job. 1000 people lose their jobs. For the plastic bag charge, the government had an emergency paragraph – they pulled the emergency brake, they realized that the proposal was bad. The same paragraph is contained in the decision on the operating fee. Now the government sees that many, many families are losing their livelihoods. Is it time to use the emergency paragraph again – put away the rhetoric, forget the game and remember the people? Many people lose their jobs, thanks to the bad decisions of the Right Party and the Advance Party before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e622	It is not the case that Moss Airport is closed because we are imposing an airline seat charge – it will be cancelled because Ryanair will no longer use this base. I believe that being pressured by such a company is not right. I also believe that it is fully possible for Moss airport to work with other airlines, to get others to offer travel. There's not $88 at the top of an airline ticket that's crucial here. Ryanair must have other intentions to do so. I believe it is viable to have that kind of fee. Then the government shall assess the device on it and come back to it. But I also hope that Moss Airport's responsible staff are actively working to find other people who want to use the airport, other than Ryanair, who are acting at a charge where they seem to be willing to accept at other airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e629	Erik Lundeby – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e632	The budgetary agreement between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left involves both long-term instruments that can give Norway new legs to stand on, and short-term measures to address the challenges in regions that note the need for migration particularly hard. A key option in the transition is to invest more heavily in green energy and green technology development to position Norway as a low-carbon society. The challenge is that there will be a gap between the long-term instruments and the short-term measures. People find other things to do – engineers become teachers, trade union workers become carers. The danger is that knowledge is confused, because the unemployed lose contact with their original professional environment. What new measures does the Prime Minister see as necessary to stimulate a faster transition to a new green enterprise that can employ skilled workers and open engineering skills? And when can we expect these to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e641	The government is doing a lot to get to the green shift. Not least, we do a lot in the form that, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have secured more to Enova, so that they can provide money and support for both established companies and energy-saving measures, but also for a lot of new technology in this area. In addition, it is important to have a good portfolio of innovation instruments, which the government also has, and which we have strengthened in connection with both our budget and the conciliation process in Stortinget. This means that money for institutional support, money for the environmental technology system – all of this – works together. When I travel around – I have now been to Rogaland and in More and Romesdal – I encounter difficult times and crises, but I also meet a lot of entrepreneurship, a lot of willingness to create something new, and a lot of people who start up. That's why last year was 20 pst. of all the means of re-starting, i.e. entrepreneurship, given in Rogaland County. It shows that there is also a lot of new technology coming out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e650	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e662	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and in this context the President will refer to the electronic overview made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Industry, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative Freddy de Ruiter to the Minister for Health and Welfare, is answered by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has been away. Question 6, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e679	‘Tax West and Skatt South have decided that Stavanger Concert House and Kristiansand Theatre and Concert House Source must pay a total of 550 million. kr in VAT compensation received, as a result of changes in the compensation law adopted by the Stortinget in the autumn of 2007. I cannot see that the decisions of the Skatt West and the Skatt South are in line with the intention of the Stortinge or the preparations for the amendment of the law. The Council of State will take the initiative to clean up the excessive requirement of 550 million. kr may be waived?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e686	Let me first point out that I cannot express my opinion on individual matters relating to tax treatment. Under the law, the tax rate is the one dealing with this type of case, and the decisions of the tax office can also be appealed to the directorate or brought to the courts. Then I will refer to my two written answers of 22 June to similar questions from the representative. Again, I pointed out that the purpose of the general compensation scheme is to counteract the distortions of competition that may arise when a municipality is faced with the choice between providing taxable services itself and purchasing services from private enterprises. The scheme is not an aid scheme and is financed by reducing State transfers to municipalities corresponding to the size of the scheme at the time it was introduced. As I have explained earlier, the right to compensation is limited when the municipalities are engaged in economic activity and this activity may be in competition with non-compensatory activities. That restriction was imposed by the Stoltenberg II Government in 2008 following a decision by ESA, which concluded that parts of the compensation scheme were in breach of State aid law. The preparatory work on the provisions shows that the regulatory constraints were designed on the basis of the concepts of the EEA Agreement. It also points to some elements that may be relevant to consider when assessing whether the restriction is applicable or not. The EEA Agreement is dynamic, and cultural issues illustrate the need for us to review the Norwegian legislation and its practice. Cultural buildings are an important infrastructure for cultural activities and services throughout the country, and it is important to have practical rules to deal with, while respecting competition. In my previous answers, I have announced that we will assess the need for a review of the anti-competitive rule in the Compensation Act. That work is now in progress. The aim of the review is to ensure that the considerations behind the scheme are balanced in the best possible way, including ensuring a level playing field between private and public operators in the same market. The purpose of the work is to examine the law in force and to clarify the framework within which the EEA Agreement provides for an understanding of the provision. Once that work has been completed, we will assess the need for legislative changes. I also want to carry out a broader review of the compensation scheme as part of the revised budget for 2016. In this review, we will address not only the anti-competitive rule, but also several issues that we see have arisen in the interpretation of the law. Several pages will thus be thoroughly reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e706	I thank you for your answer. When, in the context of the 2008 government budget review, including the votes of today’s government parties, the Storting decided to amend the compensation law, this was a clear indication that the decision would have very limited consequences. The examples to which it was referred, which in the case of the law, were then organised by municipal bodies in competition with private actors. Building and running expensive scenes with 70-90 full-time musicians can hardly be said to be a course activity, or clean-up, in competition with private actors. In the setting up and in the Ministry of Finance's Ot.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008 reads: ‘Has no municipal actors that perform, for example, social or cultural functions alone will be considered to be engaged in economic activity.’ These should therefore not be subject to the amendment of the law that is now the basis for the interpretation and tax requirements. Does the Minister of Finance agree with that interpretation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e722	As I said in my first answer, I think it is absolutely necessary, because the legislation underlying this is dynamic, that we carry out a review of this – both to avoid unintended effects and to ensure that the legislation is designed in such a way that it is easy to deal with the actors. That is why we have now started this review, which is also wider than the one we originally suggested we would do, and will put this ahead of the Storting in the context of the revised budget in order to be able to make the detailed assessments that are necessary. It also means that, through such a review, we are asked to assess whether there is a need to make regulatory changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e727	I thank you again for the answer. I have worked as a tax attorney myself, among others. in Skatt west, for years before I came to the Stortinget. I haven't worked with VAT, but people who work in PwC have. The tax haven has now come up with its assessment – and jus is not an exact science. PwC has also looked at this matter, and they write among other things. on its web pages that Skatt west and Skatt south of its approach results in the compensation law ‘§ 4, second paragraph, no. 4 is given a far wider range than is necessary to ensure that the obligations of Norway under EEA legislation are respected’. So here you have a little bit of different interpretations of what's the consequence of the law that's there today. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether she has an intention to interpret the law as appropriately as possible for the municipalities of Stavanger and Kristiansand, which is here with a very large bill as a result of a very good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e736	Let me remind you of what I said at the outset, namely that I cannot comment on this individual matter, simply because it is under tax treatment. But I'm very clear on the need to review the legislation. It is precisely because there are uncertainties about interpretation, practice and implementation that we need to repeat this proper and thorough review. This means that by also presenting it to the Stortinget, we will provide the Stortinget with an opportunity to look into the legislation on a general basis and make assessments of the need to make changes to it. And I've replied very clearly that I intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e747	‘The new government quarter will be one of the largest public building projects in the years to come. It must be assumed that such a comprehensive and important project will be implemented with high quality, low or no emissions both at the construction and operational stages and not least a good integration into the urban environment in the capital. The government quarter appears to be a good candidate for becoming one of FutureBuild's 50 model projects. Will the Council of State ensure that the government quarter is realised as a FutureBuild project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e754	The government concluded in May 2014 that future government quarterly plans will be made with ambitious environmental objectives and a high level of energy efficiency, so that planning is at the height of best practices for environmentally friendly construction and outdoor areas in a life-cycle perspective, providing a socially viable and cost-effective resource use. In order to ensure that environmental standards are achieved at the lowest possible cost, concrete environmental objectives need to be set early. I have therefore asked Statsbyggen to come back with proposals for a concreteisation of the environmental ambitions of the project. For example, state buildings have: acquired knowledge status of national and international best practices for environmentally friendly buildings and outdoors. State-based assessments cover a number of environmental themes: greenhouse gas emissions, energy, materials use, waste and contaminated land, indoor climate, local climate, outdoor air quality and noise, climate adaptation, floods and biodiversity, and transport. Experience on costs, including societal impacts and life-cycle costs, and the relationship between safety requirements and environmental ambitions have been gained in the investigations. Due to safety requirements, the Government Quartet will have built with more use of concrete and other materials that could lead to a high climate load. Buildings are not readily comparable to ordinary office buildings. On the other hand, the co-location of departments in a central urban area with good collective coverage contributes significantly to achieving high environmental objectives. Several construction projects, e.g. in FutureBuild, has achieved approx. 50 pst. reduced greenhouse gas emissions and some have achieved significantly greater reductions. These construction projects are characterised by their central location, include the rehabilitation of buildings where the foundation and support system are reused, low energy requirements and some self-production of renewable energy and otherwise supplied with nearly 100 pst. renewable energy. Several of these elements are also relevant in the new government quarter. When it comes to the question of whether the project becomes a new government quarter, a FutureBuild project is too early to take a stand on this. State buildings have been in dialogue with FutureBuild for a long time. The most important thing, however, is that the environmental quality of the project is ensured and that the buildings respond well to the ambitions of the government and the Stortinge that it should be at the height of best practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e767	I thank you for the answer – and perhaps especially for the last time: that it is not yet decided whether it should be a FutureBuild project. When the level of ambition for the environment is high, I would argue that it is also being implemented as a FutureBuild project, because it is clear that all the large, central expansions in Oslo centre now – whether it be the Deichman, the Munch Museum or even the National Museum – are part of these projects. Then it would be strange if in the largest state project, the government quarter, you didn't get to the same level of ambition. With this argument, I am asked the question: does the Council of State agree that the government quarter must be targeted to ensure that it is at least in line with the other projects, has the same status, and that it should therefore also be able to be assessed as a FutureBuild project?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e774	Let me first say that I am pleased with the strong commitment of both the representative of Elvestuen and others to the new government quarter. It is important that there is open debate and dialogue on the development of such a large national project in the middle of the capital. I also agree that we are going to have high environmental ambitions for the new project, but there are many different elements involved here. Land standards are an important element for achieving high environmental objectives, but other elements are also involved – collective coverage and the possibility of walking and cycling to work is also important to include in that picture. So it might be, as I was in my answer, that there are aspects of a new government quarter related to safety, the use of concrete, which makes it not immediately completely comparable to other small and large projects. But the environmental ambitions are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e783	But it is precisely that there are own issues about the government quarter – the fact that security issues have to be addressed here, as well as high ambitions in the field of architecture and the environment and all other architectural proposals; precisely that it is difficult – that requires higher ambitions and that it is not just ‘best practice’ that is the goal and the standard to have. Then my last question is: does the Council of State agree that it is precisely that it is difficult, that it is complex, that security issues should also be addressed in the centre of a city, which requires different solutions? It's not just built in itself, it's just how it's going to work with urban space, and it's going to have a living urban environment, which means that you're going to go beyond just "best practice" and international experience and thus make this a FutureBuild project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e790	I agree that precisely because it's hard, you also have to have high ambitions, and that we have to see the different elements in context. There are many assumptions that suggest that this could be a good environmental project, which I had to deal with. The fact that we collect the government quarter, with the exception of defence, in one place, avoids a lot of transportation inside the city. It also means that we can have more energy-efficient solutions and that we can have more efficient use of department offices. So I have great faith that we're going to get good solutions, with high ambitions, but already now to conclude that it's going into one framework, I think it's too early. There is a good dialogue between Statsbygg and FutureBuild, and we are now working continuously and concretely to define standards and how to achieve a new government quarter with high environmental ambitions in the middle of the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e808	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e815	«The long-term municipality has introduced a shot premium on gaupe. Gaupe is a strongly threatened species on the Norwegian Red List. In 1845 the Stortinget decided to eradicate gloat, wolf, bear and yerv, and therefore introduced a gunshot premium on the predators. It was only in 1980 that the shot premium was terminated, when the population was on the brink of extinction. Shooter premium should be a prehistoric instrument that has no place in modern environmental management. Is it okay for municipalities to introduce a shot premium on gaupe in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e822	All four major predators in Norway are currently managed on the basis of the leadership of the Storting within the framework of the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. Stock targets have been adopted for each species and the Stortinget has said that stocks should be managed as closely as possible to the stock targets. It is demanding to manage game populations with such a level of precision. Of the four large predators, only gloats are defined as a huntable species. This includes, among other things: the consistency with the inclusion of gauze in List III of the Berne Convention. Gaupe also has a significantly higher population target than the other large predators. Bear, wolf and yerv are on list II of the Berne Convention, which means that these species must be subject to more stringent protection. Bears, wolves and herds can only be allowed for the purpose of avoiding damage, while assessments of gaupe hunting can also include assessments related to, among others. recreation and harvesting tradition. Another difference is that for huntable species, such as gauze, it is permitted to use the shot premium as a motivating instrument, which is not allowed for the peace of game, such as bear, wolf and yerv. Gaup hunting is regulated by setting annual hunting quotas. I don't know if there are local conditions in the area in question that suggest that the shot premium may be appropriate. Overall, there is a high interest in globular hunting in Norway and quota hunting is very effective. As a result, in most cases the allocated allowances are shot during the hunting period. In this way, I find it difficult to see that a shot premium can be a topical and socio-economical tool to further streamline hunting in particular many areas. It is the set hunting quotas that limit the number and areas in which they can share. It is not affected by municipal shot premium schemes. But as long as globular species are huntable in Norway, I do not believe that there is any basis for removing the possibility of adopting a shot premium on this species.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e837	As the government council points out, gloupe withdrawals also work well without a shot premium. It works so well that the population today is below the stock target, and I think it's natural that the council itself sees it as a task to get the stock up to at least the minimum level it's going to be at, according to the Storting. It is important to be aware that the population of gaupe in Norway is biologically microscopic — we have about one gloupe per 1000 km2 of area in Norway, most of which is good gloupe habitat. The question is, although the Council of State says he does not see any good point in the shot premium measure in Lyngen, does the Council of State not intend to do anything to address such a particular instrument that is used in such a vulnerable species?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e847	As I have said before, the important instrument is the fixing of hunting quotas. That's why it's what limits the number of globs and the areas in which they can share, not municipal solutions as a municipal shot premium. We have an exact goal for gaupe that has been decided upon by Stortinget. There is no room for action to manage the population either above or below a level of 65 annual juveniles, which is the target. The situation of the globular population in Norway is the same as it was when the Stortinget adopted the current stock target in 2004, and we relate to the good functioning of the management of globular population as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e852	I think it is reasonable to have a expectation that the Minister for the Environment in Norway has a public opinion about the use of such instruments in Norwegian administration, and I encourage the Council of State to express it in a more powerful way than he has now done. But in the case of gaupe, it is also that the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research at John Odden & Co. a year and a half ago, a study showed that the payment of damages for gaupe in a large area in the East was about twice as high as the actual loss caused by gaupe. So there's a danger that gloapa will be blamed for too much more sheep loss than it actually causes, and that the globular population will be managed on the wrong basis. Does the Council of State intend to address these professional questions against the bigmouth message to come and the predatory work that the Storting is now going to carry out, so that we can have a better professional basis for restocking?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e861	We will return to Stortinget as regards the follow-up to the predatory settlement. It is also the case that possible changes to the hunting time regulation will be sent at the consultation in spring 2016, and it may be appropriate to consider these issues more closely in this context, but no decision has yet been taken. Now it is the case today that the globular population is slightly below the target population. In 2015, there were 60,5 young coals of gaupe – that's 4.5 coals less than the stock target. Despite the fact that the globular population has increased somewhat compared to the previous year, it is the third consecutive year that there is something below. In line with the agreement, we are committed to being as close to the stock target as possible and are working to get up to that level.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e872	This question, from the representative Freddy de Ruiter to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment on behalf of the Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e875	«The hospital in Arendal has more than 1000 births per year, but despite this and major protests, the new birthplace was abolished. In particular, we feared that the offer of acutely ill newborns would become worse. In Agderposten on 28 January, the director of the maternity ward at the hospital in Arendal goes out and expresses his concern that it may take up to nine hours after birth before Mother and Children come from the maternity ward in Arendal to the new birth post in Kristiansand, while the hospital in Arendal has competence and opportunities to care for these children. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate that newborns and their parents be unnecessarily subjected to these extra burdens and can the Council of State guarantee that this does not compromise patient safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e882	In 2010, the Health Directorate published national quality requirements for maternity care in the ‘Safe food supply’ guide. The quality requirements were based on Stortingen’s treatment of St.melding. No 12 for 2008-2009, A Happy Event. Health firms have provided the directorate for the further development of maternity care, and this has led to a more appropriate division of tasks between hospitals in this area. As regards the offer to children born at the hospital in Arendal, Health South-East has informed the Health Minister that Sørlanden Hospital in the summer of 2015 adopted two organisational changes to reduce the risk of sick newborns in Agder. The first of these changes was that all defined risk births were to take place at the Women's Clinic at the hospital in Kristiansand. This is in line with the abovementioned Health Directorate counsellor, who recommends that all at risk should be referred to a female clinic. Women's clinics have more competence and resources than departments defined as food departments, such as the Arendal Department. The second change was that sick newborns from the Arendal hospital were to be transferred to the newborn unit in Kristiansand. This decision was made in the interests of quality and patient safety. Implementation of the last decision has taken place without serious incidents having been reported for mother or child. A few newborns have had to wait for transport from Arendal to Kristiansand, but they have always been well cared for by qualified personnel at the hospital in Arendal. It is understandable that there is an additional burden to wait, but the Sørlanden hospital informs us that the children have been well cared for during the waiting period. The most important thing is that these functional changes ensure quality and patient safety in the treatment of sick newborns.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e895	It can certainly be discussed whether it has led to a quality improvement that one has removed the new birthmark at Norway’s 12th largest hospital when one measures the number of births. I guess it's just Bærum hospitals that don't have a birthmark of the same size compared to the number of births, so this is probably far more than organisational changes. What I think is perhaps the most serious in the answer to the Council of State, is that no serious incidents have been reported. My question to the Council of State will then be: Do you have to wait until serious events occur before a person takes this problem seriously, that one actually has a waiting time of up to nine hours, while one has the competence of the hospital in Arendal, which carries out more than 1,000 births a year? Will the government follow this situation carefully?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e904	The government follows this situation closely, and we base ourselves, as mentioned, on the health directorate’s guide ‘A safe food supply’, with the quality requirements it sets. It is also the case that neonatal medicine is being supervised, and such supervision was being carried out by the Western Agder and Aust-Agder counties last year with the neonatal medicine in the Southland Hospital, which led to these changes, for that report identified two anomalies. One of these was that Sørlanden Hospital HF does not ensure the proper treatment of sick newborns at Sørlanden Hospital Arendal. It was with this in mind that the district council in Sørlanden Hospital decided in the summer of 2015 that sick newborns from the Arendal maternity ward should be transferred to the Kristiansand Women's Clinic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e909	We've had a lot of rounds of surveillance reports from county doctors. If one were to use it for the other birth wards of similar size in the rest of the country, there were enough hospitals that had lost their birthplace. As far as I know, there have never been serious events at the birthplace in Arendal as a result of poor quality. On the contrary, the quality has been very high, but the supervisory report suggested that something could happen if certain measures were not taken. But it's the snow that fell last year, literally. What is at least important is that one ensures a good supply of food also for acutely ill newborns and their parents at Sørlanden Hospital Arendal, which actually has more than 1,000 births a year, and I do not really feel safe about that. I would ask the Council of State to assure the people of East-Agder that they can be sure of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e916	It was precisely the representative’s point of not waiting for something to happen, which is the starting point for the decision taken at the Sørlande hospital, because it is based here on surveillance reports and takes decisions in line with surveillance reports, which are based on or measured against the standards and quality requirements set. That's a good way to operate, so that we ensure consistency between the quality requirements and what is actually the situation in neonatal medicine. Therefore, I can assure the representative that monitoring, reporting and follow-up of quality requirements are something we place great emphasis on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e932	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e939	‘127,000 people are unemployed and the unemployment rate is higher than the government budget. In an interview in June 2014 on increasing unemployment, the Prime Minister said that it is ‘important to have a high level of attention on developments’. Later, government members have said that it is not a crisis and that their policies work. However, the Minister of Finance recently said that new measures may be needed, as the Labour Party has long asked for. At what level must the unemployment rate be before the government introduces new measures to combat increasing unemployment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e946	The labour market has gradually deteriorated in the last year. The unemployment rate in 2015 was 4.4 p.p., like what we agreed in the 2016 national budget. Lower petroleum investment is the main cause of the deterioration, but also a general recession after the autumn of 2014 contributes negatively. When we presented the 2016 national budget now in the autumn, we expected the labour market to develop weakly through most of 2016, and that the growth in employment would rise in 2017. This assessment remains firm. But today's situation is not primarily a temporary economic downturn, as we experienced during the financial crisis in 2009. The Norwegian economy is now undergoing a significant transformation phase. There is overcapacity in the oil-related part of the economy, and labour must find the way to other activities and areas. In such a situation, the period of leave is higher than usual. At the same time, we need to put in place measures to prevent the long-term unemployment of the unemployed, to stimulate the demand for labour, and to contribute to the proliferation of active and effective jobseekers. Only then will the transitions take place as smoothly as possible. Economic policy now has an expansive device. It contributes to job creation, and it contributes to bridge construction over a period of weak economic cycles. The Government’s action package for increased employment is designed to provide work during a transition period and is targeted in particular at the South and Western countries. The contribution of labour market policy to the transitions is several: The unemployed must be active and must be open to mobility. For some, it is not enough to be active jobseekers, they need to fill their skills and practices. Hubs may provide such assistance. The Government has increased the level of action for the unemployed by 4000 places from the end of the 2015 budget to 2016. I have recently notified some changes to the day-to-day pay legislation to make it easier to combine social security with education. The changes made by the government to the temporary employment legislation also have a positive impact on the demand for labour. The representative, Andersen, asks what level of unemployment must be before the government introduces new measures. The government's policies and forecasts are presented in the budget papers of the Stortinget. As mentioned above, the level of unemployment in 2015 was as declared by the government. The government is following developments closely and at the same time has taken a number of initiatives to keep employment up. At the same time, we want to stimulate the transformations that now have to come. The government also assesses the need for ongoing action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e974	I ask what level of unemployment must be before the government introduces new measures, and I do so on the basis of the fact that I myself had the joy of sitting in the Council of State post in which the Council of State is now sitting, when we had the financial crisis in Norway in 2008 and 2009. At the time, the government started to establish an ambition, that Norway should have Europe’s lowest unemployment rate, but we need Europe’s strongest measures against unemployment. That's why I'm asking, because it was at an unemployment level that was much lower than today. We started the process of traveling around the country and listening to business needs, and then we brought a package of 20 billion. kr to create activity. The crisis today is different from the previous one. It requires other measures, but it does not require any less that the government actually has ambitions to do something about unemployment — and not just explain it. One example is the legislation on permitting, which we know will help that business in a concrete way, but which we have then exposed. When will the Council of State give in to the pressure that is now, to get it in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e981	What is the challenge of the requirement that now comes from someone to expand the number of laying weeks in the legislation, is that there are no jobs, and what we need now is more jobs. We need jobs in the short term to help those who have now become unemployed as a result of the crisis in the South-West, especially in the oil-related industry, and we need to transform our country into a new reality in the long term. So what we're doing is that we have short-term measures through major road and rail investment, in the rehabilitation of public buildings, and we are focusing in particular on the areas of the country that are now struggling, while also focusing on nutrient-oriented research and innovation, knowledge and education to ensure long-term migration. There are no clear signs of extending the number of weeks. It comes from someone, not from everyone. For me, this is more a question of what is most appropriate for employees, for businesses and for the country. We're open to change, too, but so far we don't think it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e988	The most important measure in labour market policy is a good industrial policy that creates activity. But when the Council of State says what she is now saying, and minimizes the desire of the business community for an extended law on permitation, I think it reveals a total lack of understanding of the situation in which business is. While it is true that there are parts of the business community that do not need to strengthen the permitting legislation, reinforced permitting legislation is then used only by the industry that needs it and that is actually now asking for it. So this government has to be run from skirmish to skirmish and has no direction in terms of leisure time. I think that an extended law on permitting comes, if only many strong groups get plenty of time enough. Therefore, my question is, When will the government go and follow, when it is not willing to show leadership in terms of the employment situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e995	We are open to make continuous changes to the permitting legislation, as we have done before. But the question we have to ask ourselves now is, what contributes to conversion? What's the effect, in the short and long term, of getting off? I visited, like many others, Rogaland not so long ago and was told from Nav Rogaland that of the youngest unemployed – aged 16-29 years, it is probably – have 40 pst. not even graduated from secondary school. Then the question is, what do they need? Do we need several weeks as they are licensed, or should we now use the momentum to provide them with vocational education and training to complete them in higher education? So there's no clear requirement or wish to expand the number of weeks, there won't be any more jobs. What we need now is jobs in the short and long term. And then we'll have to follow developments carefully and see how we're going to set up the measures, including the rules of permitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e1008	«The researchers Magne Kaldhusdal, Anne Margrete Urdahl and Kari Grave at the Swedish Veterinary Institute write in the Nation on 23 December 2015: «Narasin is an antibiotic, but not all antibiotics are responsible for the type of resistance we are talking about here.» The Veterinary Institute is an establishment under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Can the Council of State confirm that narasin is an antibiotic, as the researchers at the Veterinary Institute write?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e1015	EEA legislation does not consider narasin to be an antibiotic, but a remedy for a type of intestinal snout that could be a particular problem in chickens for fattening. There are differing views on the use of narasin as a feed additive. Some experts claim that narasin is important for good animal health, others point out, as the representative points out here, that it is some kind of antibiotic. But if narasin is banned in the production of chicken meat, we risk increasing the consumption of what everyone thinks is antibiotics. Based on reactions from consumers, the industry has taken extensive steps to try to phase out this feed addition. If you look at advertising, that's a good example. The Scientific Committee on Food Safety says that it is extremely unlikely that common consumers in Norway will get narasin from chicken meat. It's also extremely little likely that people get narasin-resistant bacteria by eating chicken as long as the meat is fried. According to the Institute for Public Health, no adverse health effects on humans resulting from the use of narasin in poultry have been documented. I will follow developments closely in this area and, if new knowledge so warrants, possibly put in place other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e1030	In Norway, narasin is mainly used in the production of chicken. Consumption increased from 5.2 tonnes in 2004 to a total of 12.4 tonnes in 2014. This represents more than twice the volume of antibiotics used to treat all animals in Norwegian livestock production — that is a fact. Furthermore, it is a fact that the pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly and Company received an American patent for narasin in 1982. Furthermore, it is a fact that according to the Norwegian Food Additives Act, the addition of antibiotics to our livestock food is prohibited. So, Narasin is a medicine that must be used to treat disease, not be fed to chickens. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e1037	If the leadership of the question had been right, the council would have agreed. But as I said, neither Norwegian nor European authorities view narasin as an antibiotic, ergo is the question based on a premise that I started my first answer saying I don't share. I'm busy continuing the fight against antibiotic resistance. This is what the government is doing in a lot of areas: I raised the issue of antibiotic resistance in my first ministerial meeting in Berlin a few weeks ago, these days both my own State Secretary and the Minister of Health in Amsterdam are discussing it the same, and I will present an action plan against antibiotic resistance later this year. The most important question to ask is, if we do not continue to use narasin, do we need to use more antibiotics in the treatment? That's what I'm openly afraid of, and I'm therefore following the developments that are now taking place, when the producers themselves phase this out, carefully, to see what the result of it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e1046	Experience so far from the models that take narasin out of production is that it does not lead to increased antibiotic use. What's central here is that the Council of States believes that my premises are wrong. Then it's important to get a public change of words about those premises. According to that US document from August 3, 1982, the process of preparing narasin, to which I referred, is at the heart of the matter that it is an international patent as an antibiotic. Can the Council of State contribute to the patent being made available on the Ministry of Agriculture's websites, so that researchers and the public can assess what is the correct fact in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e1051	In this area, as in many others, I'm busy having a knowledge-based approach. I hope we can contribute to that. The representative of Lundtigen is quite right in saying that in the productions that have phased out the use of narasin, we do not see any significant increase in the use of antibiotics. That's basically good. I am in order to have at least the possible addition of a treatment agent to the feed. It is a competitive advantage for Norwegian agriculture. It means I'm worth saving in one and all. When I travel across Europe, I can say that in Norway food is safe, we don't use medicine in feed. We use one-fifteenth of the antibiotics very many other countries use. So knowledge is important and a competitive advantage for Norwegian agriculture in this area is open. Therefore, it is important to follow it up in the further work. It does one by having professional discussions, and I think that what the Scientific Committee and so far as these researchers are also trying to contribute to is positive, and I think the Council of State can also contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e1056	So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-10.ana.ud1882e1069	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
