ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u1	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the Selor is responsible for the selection, guidance and certification missions, focusing on skills tailored to the specific needs of the public service. It contributes to the development of the teams of the various federal public services. In this regard, the Selor receives the appeals of the candidates for office and until recently had a free number. The need for such a free device is better understood in view of the long waiting times faced by telephone correspondents. However, I was told that this free number would have been deleted to give way to a paid number. I concede that not all of the appellants are job-seekers, but many of the candidates are certainly job-seekers. Waiting times, given the flow of calls and the heavy management of each of them, which is particularly long, entail significant costs. This means that these job applicants who contact the Selor must, in order to be able to pass the selection tests, complete an important telephone note, with the sole aim of being able to apply for public service job offers. This measure also appears to be discriminatory if it is considered that some appellants can afford to complete the pay-line telephone wait, while others may be dissuaded in view of the rates applied. Minister, the following issues arise. Do you confirm the removal of the free number for a paid number? If so, how can this change be justified? Is the objective of dissuadeing potential candidates? Have you measured the impact on the Selor's interlocutors who, for many, have the status of job seeker? What measures can be taken to restore the situation or, at the very least, to offer a decent alternative to these unemployed citizens, who have their telephone bills increased as a result of long waiting times? Is the paid number the assurance of a shorter waiting time for interlocutors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u2	Mr President, dear colleague, it is true that the free number of the Selor was replaced on 22 May 2015 by a classic number beginning with 02. This number is not really paid to the extent that it is not a 0800 number. First of all, it is necessary to clarify that candidates cannot apply by telephone under any circumstances. All applications must be submitted online. The paid or unpaid nature of the Info line therefore has no impact on the recruitment process. All procedures can be done online. Selor wants to be able to respond to more people within a reasonable time. Telephone questions only come from one channel. Questions are asked by e-mail via the contact form, social media, complaints channel, etc., i.e. all other channels of the Selor made available to its customers. In order to address all these issues, different actions are being taken. Indeed, Selor noted that many candidates called the free number for questions whose answers are very easily found on his website. It was therefore quite possible that a person would not be able to ask a relevant question because of the many questions asked by others, the answers of which could easily be found on the site. In doing so, the information number is more communicated than on the website's contact page. When candidates have a question to ask and are looking for the phone number, they fall into the FAQ and online contact form before they have access to it. Selor encourages the use of the contact form. The questions received through the online contact form are more structured as Selor has the national registry number and the procedure for candidates and can then serve them more quickly. The candidate shall also receive a written response which he or she may rely on at a later stage. Many of the questions received by telephone or contact form related to identity problems: people who have forgotten the data they can connect to the Selor website (e-mail address or password). For this reason, Selor reviewed how to request a new password, which significantly reduced the number of calls in this regard. Since Selor no longer has to cover the costs of the Info line, it has been able to invest in more efficient software. He now works with a single number, for which the candidate must choose his language and direct his question. The latter is then put in contact with someone who will certainly be able to answer his question. The Contact Centre's policy also provides that every appeal in absentia will be recalled. The goal is for each candidate to receive an answer within the day. Selor wants to go further in this customer-oriented approach. As a result, he is working on an improved website that will be launched at the end of this year. The information often sought will be more prominent so that candidates can find the answers they need more quickly. Selor is also working on the integration of customer relationship management software in which all contacts with applicants, for all channels, are kept up to date. Thanks to this tool, the staff of the Contact Centre will always have the most up-to-date information on the candidate's file and will be able to respond more quickly. In conclusion, I repeat that the information by telephone is not paid for. In the case of a normal number, the call is charged at the normal rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u3	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Willaert's 7505 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u5	Mr President, Minister, six months ago a resolution was adopted in the Chamber, signed by the majority, aimed at tackling discrimination in the labour market and introducing targeted controls. That resolution included several aspects, including proposals on both the private sector and the public sector. We assume that the government itself must set a good example, both in terms of recruitment, recruitment policy and selection, and in terms of control. We must therefore make sure that there is no discrimination. Moreover, in the government agreement, we agreed that the federal government in its own organisation and services will respect and encourage diversity and that through the method of socio-economic monitoring, which was initiated by the FPS Employment in the previous legislature. In addition, the government agreement stated that a quantified objective had to be set. In the meantime, Minister, we are a year and three months ahead and I have a number of questions. Firstly, what is the state of play with regard to the passage in the coalition agreement, in particular that we should have a quantified objective to be worked out by the FOD WASO for the federal government? Is that quantified target there yet? If so, what is the outcome and how will it be worked out? Is there a concrete action plan to achieve the set target, or is that still to be drawn up? Secondly, where is the self-regulation in the public sector that we have called for in our resolution? We had also included in that resolution that the government should take the necessary legislative and other initiatives by the end of December 2015. In the meantime, we're two months away. What is the state of play for your area of responsibility, Mr Secretary of State? Finally, the government agreement also provides that the government will ensure the different composition of selection judges and the neutrality of selection procedures. What evolutions are there to report in this area? What happened in the meantime? What other plans do you have in that area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u6	Mrs Lanjri, on the state of play of the quantified target for persons with a migration background, I can tell you that the Working Group on Migration background of the Steering Group on Diversity Management within the federal government has been instructed to draw up a policy paper. The Working Group, composed of diversity managers of the federal network of diversity managers and of the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre and taking into account the input of the FOD WASO and of the experts, will address the preparation of a definition for persons with a migration background and a monitoring approach. This is the first step to a zero measurement of the staff of the federal government. A target can then be set. As you know, the FOD WASO is not under my own jurisdiction, but it is under the responsibility of Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters. As regards self-regulation in the public sector, there is already a regulation on quotas for disabled people, on the balance between men and women in managerial positions and on the employment of young people under the age of 26. Furthermore, I will continue to monitor the quality of personnel data for the federal government as a whole in order to monitor closely the composition of our civil servants population and thus identify any imbalances or possible discriminations. That in itself is not clear. Finally, regarding the neutrality of the selection procedures and the various composition of selection judges, I can confirm that Selor is investing permanently in monitoring his core task, in particular the objective and neutral selection of future employees for the federal government. Those actions shall contribute, inter alia, to the neutrality of jurors in selection procedures guaranteed by the signing of a deontological code. A screening model consisting of three modules shall be used in all screening procedures which focus on the evaluation of competences. Mandatory diversity training for employees is organised, both general training and a workshop specifically focused on diversity themes during the selection interview. There is the development of a diversity channel with organisations representing the interests of persons of foreign origin. This involves concluding partnerships, giving information sessions plus motivating people of foreign origin to apply for positions in the federal government. There is clear language in Selor's job vacancies and job descriptions. The cultural neutrality of certain selection tests used by Selor shall be verified in order to avoid any indirect bias for persons of foreign origin. There's the project "Test the Test..." When purchasing new tests, cultural and gender neutrality and accessibility of the tests shall be included in the terms of the public procurement. Finally, as regards derogations from the conditions of diploma, there is the opening up of vacancies to persons who do not have the right diploma or do not have a diploma, but who can acquire a boarding pass for the job by means of an EVC procedure (other than acquired competences) or who can participate in a selection procedure through the procedure "Schaarste" on the labour market, provided that they have the necessary experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u7	Minister, I am particularly pleased with your answer to my third question, because many steps have already been taken together with Selor. With regard to the first point and what was agreed in the coalition agreement, I understand, of course, that we must have a zero measurement. This is, of course, based on a good definition and agreement on setting up monitoring. On the other hand, we have been working for a year and three months. Moreover, it is not absolutely new, in Flanders they have been monitoring for much longer and there was also the experiment at the FOD WASO. Mr President, when will that target finally be set? When will this zero reading be completed? What is the timing or can you give an indication?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u8	Mrs. Lanjri, monitoring itself is not an obvious thing. I would like to refer you to the relevant Minister for Employment, Labour and Social Affairs, who will continue this socio-economic monitoring, as the government agreement defines it. The fact is that last year we had a quantitative monitoring report for the first time in September. That took me from my first day as Minister until September last year. This is being pursued steadily, but that is not clear at all. Next to you is my predecessor, who can confirm that. I can assure you that getting proper information is not clear. This will be developed in consultation with the relevant services. You may assume that I would like to present results to you. These results can be used to demonstrate things, otherwise, of course, we will continue to talk a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u9	Minister, that definition has already been worked on, even in the past. That was also in the project of the FOD WASO. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that, as a minister of a particular party, you would like us to see this working and monitoring in Flanders for many years. One doesn't have to reinvent everything. If it already works well somewhere and works well, it can serve as an example. I hope that your working group will also take account of these good practices. For all I care, we can even look abroad, but it can also be done in Flanders itself. In Flanders, a target of 4% was set years ago. The current government has increased the target to 10%, albeit with an extension of the definition. I will continue to follow that up and question both you and your colleague, Kris Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u10	Minister, I refer to the policy letter that the Prime Minister presented here in November 2015. One of the points in his policy paper is that he will give priority to the creation of the Common Internal Audit Service. The obligation to set up an internal audit service in the various services of the federal government was already imposed by a Royal Decree of 2007. Apparently, however, there is a problem. The current situation does not always offer sufficient independence, professionalism or quality and objectivity to speak of good governance. Some of the FODs seem to have no audit service at all at the moment, while other FODs are not sufficiently developed. A common internal audit service, which is competent for the entire federal government, would provide a way out of the existing problems. It was also stated at that time that, following an adjustment of the existing regulatory framework, it was intended to make the service operational on 1 January 2016. Current internal auditors could board on a voluntary basis. At cruising speed, the service could consist of about 80 employees. We are talking about a cost figure of EUR 6.4 million. My questions are as follows. What adjustments are still needed to the regulatory framework? The 2016 budget includes an amount of EUR 2.3 million. Do we still have a budgetary area of EUR 4.1 million to make the service operational within the limits of the existing budget envelopes? How many internal auditors do we currently have in the federal government? What happens to the auditors who do not make the switch to the Single Internal Audit Service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u11	Minister, I would like to add my voice to the question. For many years, the Court of Auditors has been calling for an internal audit activity to be carried out in a more organised manner, including through the establishment of a common internal audit service for all federal administrations concerned. To this end, the Federal Government Audit Committee submitted to the Government a proposal for the organisation of the audit activities to the Federal Government on 24 June 2014, in accordance with Article 21 of the Royal Decree of 17 August 2007 on the Audit Committee. The proposal preferred the establishment of a single single internal audit service, a common service shared by all administrations, rather than another regulatory option, i.e. an audit for each service or an audit shared by several services, in a kind of subcontracting. The government and the ministers seem to have to make their final choice within three months. I also refer to the criticism of the Court of Auditors in its 172nd book that the previous government has not made any progress in this area. However, on 17 July 2015, the Government Council of Ministers took a decision in principle on the establishment of a common internal audit service for the services envisaged by the 2007 CRAs. However, as no first agent has yet been selected to run the joint internal audit service, the Court of Auditors also noted, doubts were raised as to whether the service would be effective in 2016. First of all, how are we getting on with the appointment of the first mandating officer to run the service? Secondly, what is the state of play regarding the establishment and development of the service as a whole? Thirdly, what transitional measures will be needed to move from the present structure to the new one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u12	First of all, I would like to say that today we are no longer talking about the common internal audit service, because its abbreviation, especially in West Flanders, causes problems. We are now talking about the Federal Internal Audit Service, whose founding decision, and thus its effective entry into force, was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2015. The decision has passed the trade-union consultations and is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. We expect to be able to publish the decision by the end of this month at the latest. The Federal Internal Audit Service will be run by the responsible internal audit. This function has been conceived as a management function, as foreseen by the federal administrations, with deviations where necessary due to the specificity of the audit function. The design of job description and competence profile that takes into account both management knowledge and skills and the specific internal audit requirements has already been developed in collaboration with Selor. This profile will be submitted to the Federal Government Audit Committee for advice after publication of the decision. The selection procedure is led by Selor. This procedure will be launched as soon as possible after publication of the decision, but of course the duration of the procedure and the fact that the position is open to candidates of both language roles must be taken into account. Immediately after publication of the decision, the transfer of staff wishing to join the Federal Internal Audit Service, the selection of the responsible internal audit and the further development of the service in itself will be possible. The organisations covered by the 2007 Royal Decree currently have some 40 employees who are now engaged in internal audit activities within their own departments. Some 20 of them will already have to choose whether or not to be definitively transferred to the Federal Internal Audit Service once the new KB has appeared. The staff performing an internal audit function with the FPS Finance, Defence, the BFSA and the FAGG will be able to join the Federal Internal Audit Service from 2018. The internal auditors wishing to remain with their original organisation will be assigned a different function there, as the internal audit functions within the individual services will be abolished. In this case, auditors will be recruited externally. For the period between the establishment of the service and the appointment of the first officer, an interim director may also be appointed who will accompany the initial operationalisation. Other regulatory or legal provisions may also need to be adapted or adopted, including for the future connection of other departments or institutions or for the framework of forensic audit activities. The July 2015 Council of Ministers' memo provides for 5.5 million for staff costs for the budget of the Federal Internal Audit Service and 1.2 million for operating costs, representing 6.7 million, as Mrs Gabriels said. The 2016 budget provides for a budget of 2.66 million for this year. This is divided into 2.3 million euros of personnel costs, 0.26 million operating costs and 0.1 million investment costs. Those amounts correspond to the transfer to the Federal Internal Audit Service of the appropriations linked to the services integrating the new structure from 2016. The difference of 2.6 million towards 4.7 million or the rest of the budget envelope will be transferred at the time when the other organisations concerned join the FIA.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will continue to monitor this matter because the internal audit must start as soon as possible. This question had already been tabled at the end of last year and the new name was not clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the new name. FIAT might be a problem for the Italians. As far as your answer to the question is concerned, things are progressing, but not surprisingly good. I look forward to the operationalisation that will be effective, as desired by our government and our coalitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u15	Mr.President, Minister, I tabled this question on November 12, 2015 and I do not know if the problem has been resolved. At the time, the Belgian courts had given reason to three employees of Actiris who refused to remove the veil at their place of work, despite the company's internal rules. In the long term, this case law could have serious consequences for other public bodies, but also within private companies or in the education sector. Indeed, those wishing to challenge a school labour regulation prohibiting the wearing of distinctive religious signs could now avail themselves of the jurisprudential interpretation of the anti-discrimination law to win the case. Minister, ensuring neutrality in public enterprises is one of my priorities. I have already spoken on this subject during the previous parliamentary term. I am therefore concerned, Mr.Minister, about this interpretation, deviating this law from its original objective of prohibiting discrimination on the basis of religious belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. Minister, what is the competent authority to determine whether or not the wearing of religious signs in public undertakings is authorized? Are there federal provisions that ensure neutrality within these provisions? If so, do you consider the legislation currently in force sufficiently armed to defend the above-mentioned interests?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, your question for the month of November 2015 reached me via, via, via...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u17	Minister, you're absolutely right. I had initially sent it to Mr Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u18	As Minister of the Public Service, I can only answer the question for federal public services, public social security institutions and certain federal public interest organizations. If "public undertaking" means autonomous public undertakings, the question must then be asked to the minister responsible for those public undertakings. That seems clear to me. In the Federal Civil Service, the duty of neutrality is laid down for statutory servants in Article 8 of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937, on the status of public servants. Article 8 states: "When, in the course of his duties, he is in contact with the public, the official of the State shall avoid any speech, attitude or presentation which might undermine the public's confidence in its total neutrality, competence or dignity." Similarly, Circular No. 573 of 17 August 2007 on the ethical framework of officials of the Federal Administrative Civil Service also states that "in the performance of their duties, officials shall remain neutral". In this regard, the government agreement states that "the government shall ensure that the public services rendered to citizens by the federal authorities are neutral and that it is perceived as neutral. In accordance with the current statutory rules, the ostentatious wearing of signs of conviction, i.e. religious, political or philosophical, during the performance of their duties is prohibited for officials who are in direct contact with the citizen. Executive officials shall ensure that this principle is applied."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u19	Minister, thank you for the clarifications that I will be pleased to read again, in connection with a number of issues that I will table. It goes without saying that I will also question Mr. De Croo in order to clarify in which institutions there is some coherence and in which it would be necessary to clarify the concept of neutrality. We'll see how far we go.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I would like to share with you a certain paradox with regard to the retirement of public servants, employees and public servants. Indeed, if you have opted, with your government, for a pension reform that will require workers to stay longer, it now appears that applications for exemption for extension of employment beyond 65 years in public services are, for many, refused. While the government defends structural reforms, such as raising the legal retirement age, with the aim, you explained, to guarantee the pension system in the medium and long term, the motivated staff members, interested in extending their careers, were therefore denied. I question the reasons for these refusals and would like to know the proportion of them. Minister, how many requests for work extensions beyond the age of 65 have been made to the CPS and how many have been refused? What are the objective criteria, and who is the final decision on the review of these applications? What remedies are available to staff members whose applications have been refused?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u21	Mr.President, Madam Member, as of July 1, 2015, the number of statutory agents still serving beyond the age of 65 was 66. However, the practical application of the regulations on career extensions beyond the age of 65 in the various federal departments is the responsibility of each executive official. The manner in which it is applied should not be reported in detail to the Department of Public Service. With regard to the criteria, the Ministerial Order of 11 September 2012 implementing Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 12 May 1927 on the retirement age of civil servants, employees and service personnel of the State administration states that the opinions are reasoned as to the appropriateness of the organization of the retention in service and as to the most timely duration for such retention. It is for each competent authority to assess the factors on which it is based in order to conclude that it is appropriate or not to keep such an agent in service. In its reasons, the Court must of course take account of the Act of 29 July 1991 on the formal motivation of administrative acts. It is the officer-in-chief who makes the final reasoned decision to authorize or refuse retention. Finally, without prejudice to any possible action for suspension and/or annulment before the Council of State, the rules on the procedure for application for continued service beyond the age of 65 did not provide for a specific remedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u22	Do you know how many people have applied to remain in service beyond the age of 65? Sixty-six people have been admitted, but how many have applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u23	Sixty-six persons are on duty beyond the age of 65. But as I said, there is no specific reporting obligation on this practice. It is the leaders who make the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u24	But what are the criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u25	These are their criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u26	So everyone sets their rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u28	Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u29	Mr. President, Minister, in order for the administration to reflect society, the Public Service has set a 3% target in terms of the recruitment of persons with disabilities. This objective responds to the desire to reduce the unequal access to employment of persons with disabilities. Various adjustments and adaptations are thus provided for by law in order to make the workplace accessible and adapted to the disability of the staff recruited. However, while legislation takes into account persons with disabilities, the reality on the ground is quite different. Indeed, we have been told that, in many cases, public officials do not have all the necessary information or completely ignore these legal provisions. On the other hand, the structural demands of workers with disabilities are not heard enough, and job adjustments are long overdue, making the tasks of staff far more difficult. Minister, are quotas for the employment of staff with disabilities in the Public Service being respected? What is the situation in terms of figures? Do human resources managers receive information or are they aware of the involvement of persons with disabilities? Are they able to apply the provisions imposed by law in their sectors of activity? To what extent is this assessed? Is the inclusion of persons with disabilities through recruitment and subsequent adaptation of the workplace respected within acceptable time frames? Have any complaints to prove otherwise been registered in the Public Service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, I thank you for this very important but similar question to the parliamentary written question No 411 of 28 October 2015 put by Mr Olivier Chastel. I therefore refer you to the detailed answer given to him, i.e. to QRVA 5452 of 30 November 2015 on page 336. I'll give you the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u31	Mr President, Minister, occupational exhaustion syndrome, more commonly known as burn-out, is affecting more and more workers in Belgium. According to INAMI figures, we increased from 29,112 cases in 2007 to 83,155 cases in 2014. These figures represent only Belgian workers leaving the labour market for a period of more than one year and compensated by social security. In addition, sick leave is less than one year, estimated to be at least as numerous. Moreover, these official statistics do not take into account persons who do not make use of their rights, self-employed persons who do not meet the criteria of disability insurance and who are not entitled to unemployment benefits. The data also do not take into account persons alternating periods of work and periods of illness of less than one month who are paid by their employers. Finally, according to an investigation by the IDEWE Group, an important ASBL active in safety and well-being at work, a quarter of Belgian workers may one day experience a burn-out. Mr. Minister, you will agree with that, but these figures are a matter of concern. This disease is a real public health issue in Belgium and its scale puts the issue of well-being at work at the forefront of concerns. In addition, burn-out can affect both private and public sector workers. In the latter case, the phenomenon can therefore have an impact on the proper functioning of our public service. Beyond professional aspects, burn-out can also have disastrous consequences for private and family life. Minister, do you have any figures on this burn-out phenomenon for federal public servants? If so, could you communicate them to us? What initiatives have you already taken to address this phenomenon within the Public Service and what measures do you intend to take to prevent its spread? A prevention tool consisting of a questionnaire for early detection of burn-out among workers was developed by the University of Liège with the External Service for Prevention and Protection at Work. How do you look at this device? Is the systematic application of this prevention tool across the federal public service, in your view, an option?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u32	Mr President, Mr Calomne, burn-out or burn-out syndrome manifests itself in various and varied signs depending on the individual, making his diagnosis difficult to establish. Many other stress-related pathologies, syndromes or symptoms mentioned on federal public servants' medical certificates, therefore, often have similarities with burn-out while having multifactorial etiologies. However, they often have to varying degrees links with the work. The figures I have come from the latest report on absenteeism for illness among federal public servants published by Medex for 2014. Stress-related illnesses are found to be the main cause of absenteeism, i.e., 28.4% in terms of the total length of absence for federal public servants. In the stress-related group, the average absence time per certificate is 18.6 days. Analysis of the causes of absenteeism in this group shows that depressive disorders are responsible for 55% of absences with an average duration of absence per person of 27.1 days. Occupational stress pathologies account for 34% of absences in this group, with average durations of absence per person ranging from 9.3 days for neurasthenia to 23.7 days for burn-out. The average duration per certificate increases in parallel with age in all diagnostic groups studied. Over the past few years, stress-related diseases have been at the heart of the news and receive much attention. A multitude of initiatives have been taken to address the first phase of this phenomenon, including prevention aimed at the anticipation of burn-out. This is reflected in the organisation of awareness-raising campaigns and publications that raise awareness of the implications of burn-out. In addition, a prevention tool, which consists of a questionnaire allowing the early detection of burn-out in workers, has been developed by the University of Liège with SPMT-ARISTA (External Service for Prevention and Protection at Work) and is specifically intended for health professionals confronted with workers in burn-out, i.e. occupational doctors, general practitioners, preventive counsellors and psycho-social aspects or psychologists – for example, in work clinics. The clinical sense of the professional makes it possible to highlight the presence of burn-out and its importance. The purpose of the tool is also to provide it with the first leads for the care of the worker. The use of this instrument should be left to the discretion of the health care professional. Its systematic application in the civil service is therefore not desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. The figures you have are for 2014. I assume it is, for the time being, difficult to read the 2015 data. I have held that 28.4 per cent of patients in the public service suffer from stress. Do you have absolute numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u34	I think it is more important to look at the figures for days off.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u35	Of course, but as I said in my question, the problem is that the result is disorganization.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u36	Mr Calomne, the data in my possession comes from an organization that is not under my control, namely Medex.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u37	Minister, I will therefore ask a supplementary question on this subject to obtain more precise figures. In any case, I wanted to highlight the problems faced by people who suffer from them, but also the impact on their colleagues, since some services are disorganized when a person is absent for a long time. Unfortunately, this is often the case with burn-out. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u38	Minister, the Court of Auditors recommended in 2012 that the FPS P&O publish an annual report on personnel policy in the federal public office and its evolution in the light of the government's objectives. Since 2014, a so-called federal sustainable social balance has been established by every federal government, i.e. the FPS, the PPS, the scientific institutions, the public benefit institutions and the social security institutions. However, those reports are partly based on data from Pdata. Those data are not yet complete. In the 167th to 172nd yearbook, the Court of Auditors has also pointed out that the data are improving, but are still incomplete. It is therefore difficult to make a full social assessment or to have a correct evolution of the staff of the federal public office if the data are not complete or are distributed across different sources. Minister, which parts of the federal government are not yet or are not fully included in Pdata? What's the reason for that? What measures do you wish to take to complete the data?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u39	Mr Vermeulen, Pdata takes up the personnel records of the federal administrative public office, as defined by the legislator in Article 1 of the Law of 22 July 1993 on certain measures relating to civil service, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 14 August 1993. The legal obligation to communicate the personnel data to Pdata is limited to organisations forming part of the perimeter of the federal administrative public office, as defined in the same law. The law contains a clear definition. Organisations such as the Koninklijke Muntschouwburg or the National Orchestra of Belgium are not part of it. Other federal government organisations willing to provide their personnel data on a voluntary basis will also be included in the Pdata file. The quality of the data in Pdata is continuously improved by additional exchange of data with authentic sources such as the National Register and the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises. So it's a living file. In the long term, the new social secretariat of the federal government, called Persopoint, will manage the overviews and the collection of data can be simplified. It is not in my intention to extend the scope of Pdata beyond the perimeter as defined in the previously mentioned law. The recent development of the sustainable social balance indeed uses the data of, among other things, Pdata, but wants to demonstrate to what extent the federal administrative office correctly applies the principles of good governance and really is and wants to be a good employer. There is always a difference between different types of data. I therefore intend to develop other indicators in this context and to make them available in all transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u40	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It's pretty obvious. It is also clear that the perimeter is limited and you do not want to expand it at the moment, but choose other performance indicators, which are certainly more relevant to you at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u41	Minister, I was pleased to hear last week that you wrote to the top management of the federal administrations asking them to take all the necessary measures to prevent the civil service from stopping as a result of the irresponsible strikes of the French-speaking wing of the Christian and Socialist railway unions. That was absolutely right. Citizens and businesses deserve an optimal service at all times, without exception. Mr Minister, can you give me, by federal administration and by language role, the figures of the percentage of officials who chose homework on the two strike days mentioned, including telework, satellite work, an alternative means of transport, leave or recovery, and in which federal administrations are still using what we know as the word of honour?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u42	Thank you for your question, Commissioner. The social actions at the track on 6 and 7 January 2016 were actions for which I leave the categorization to you, but which were very well announced in time. That means that everyone had time to organize themselves and make the necessary arrangements. For me, in my capacity as Minister for Civil Service, it is important to guarantee our services to citizens, businesses and other public services in the best possible way. The answers to your different questions are shown in a table. The table goes beyond the scope of the present sitting, but it will in any case be added to the report. We'll give you the table in a minute. We have listed the figures by federal government of the officials present in the workplace, who opted for satellite work, home work or telework, who were absent on leave or an inactivity day or who were absent due to illness. We also have figures on the public services which have used the so-called declaration of honour to prove their absence. Unfortunately, I do not have a division by language role at my disposal. If we go over the whole thing, we will see, on the basis of the data provided, the following major trends for both days. Firstly, 55% was present at the workplace; 0,7 % was employed in a satellite office; 20% was not present but carried out the work by telework; 17.6 % was absent on leave or inactivity day; 6% was absent due to illness and 0.6 % was absent from the strike, supported by a statement of honour. Of course, I do not have a zero measurement, but you can assume that my appeal to the managers responsible to take the necessary measures has been effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the remarkable figures. As you yourself quite rightly point out, your call has not ended up in deaf ears, which we welcome. Yes, you've mobilized. The official strike rate has been very limited. It's a good thing we've been objectifying this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u44	Mr President, Minister, about a year ago I interviewed you about the functional bilingualism of managers. I will not repeat the history of that file now. The essence is that functional bilingualism was introduced more than 13 years ago, but is still not in force because the Council of Ministers has not yet taken the necessary implementing decisions. We know that this is mainly the reason why the French-speaking people are being obstructed, knowing that the introduction of functional bilingualism will give them a lot of problems in getting their males placed on those posts. I questioned you about that a year ago. The coalition agreement states that you will implement this provision. You confirmed a year ago that you have the ambition to do so. I told you then that I would ask you regularly about the state of affairs. A year has passed now, and I haven't heard more about that file. I hope this is a sign that you have worked hard on it in silence. I have a few specific questions on this, Minister. Firstly, what progress has been made in this dossier over the past year? Wasn't this one year enough to force a breakthrough? Why not? What are the bottlenecks that have still not succeeded? Secondly, when do you think you can land with this dossier and submit a decision to the Council of Ministers? What is your specific timing? What direction will that decision take? Thirdly, how many mandate holders are currently working in the FODs and the PODs? How many Dutch speakers, how many French speakers? How many mandate holders have the required language attestation? Fourthly, how do you view the appointment of managers as long as Article 43b (7) has not entered into force? Your fellow party member, Flemish Minister Weyts, was certainly very much in favour of this. Fifth, were there any mandate holders under this government? If so, how many Dutch speakers and how many French speakers? How many mandate holders have the required language attestation? Sixth and finally, do you share the analysis of Minister Weyts, who rightly stated here in the Committee of 7 February 2012 that functional bilingualism is already applicable because the law itself anticipates the absence of a royal decision? It is stipulated that, if no decision is taken, the level of language knowledge defining the concept of "functional language knowledge' is fixed and the level of language knowledge for grade 13 and higher. Do you agree with that analysis? If so, will this also be applied in practice? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Pas, with regard to your specific question concerning the figures, I can tell you that there are currently 132 mandate holders in the service of the FPS and the PPS. Of these 70 are Dutch and 62 are French. 21 Dutch speakers and 13 French speakers respectively have proof of language knowledge according to Article 7 level A or Article 12. During this reign, 17 Dutch-speaking and 18 French-speaking mandate holders were appointed, three of whom and two of whom have a certificate of linguistic knowledge according to Article 7 level A or Article 12. For the record, this is the two most difficult language exams as organized by Selor. Last year you also asked a question about the judgment on Selor's monopoly, a file that has been dragging on for several months. In order to avoid heavy fines, I have given priority in recent months to meeting the requirements of this judgment. You can establish whether or not, I do not know how well informed you are that we have adopted this bill in committee today. To return to the functional bilingualism of management functions, the government agreement states that Article 53b, § 7 of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters is implemented. As I said before to you and this committee, this gives me a clear mandate. Moreover, I refer to my policy paper as proposed last November. I would also like to say that there is no point in wanting to deal with this quickly, quickly, and then seeing the Royal Decree destroyed by the Council of State. As far as your last question is concerned, I refer to Article 70 of the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The figures you have given are clear. They also show that you do not hold an appointment until a KB has been issued. However, I think it is a little short-sighted to say that you cannot quickly arrange a KB because you would then be flogged back afterwards. It's not that fast at all. I questioned you about this a year ago. Your predecessors have already done all the preparatory work. Mr Bogaert has just left the Chamber, but he could immediately confirm that he too was full of good intentions to get that KB through and that all the advice and preparations should be ready in your cabinet. As far as this is concerned quickly, we are already halfway through the legislature and you have not set out any timing. When I ask a question, I usually get the answer that it is not in the coalition agreement and that nothing will be done about it. Now it's in the coalition agreement, but now I don't get an answer to my question when you want to do something about it. You could be a lot more ambitious. It's complimentary day today. I was hoping I could give you more compliments on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u47	Mrs. Pas, you've been following the file longer than I have. I don't fish for compliments, I know when I've accomplished something or not, and I can live up to it myself. It is a fact that Selor's functional bilingualism and monopoly were previously linked, but that is no longer the case. To say that we are not taking any steps forward is unjustified. We have adopted today in this committee a draft law that already solves one of the problems. You said earlier that it might be a good sign if I continued to work in silence. Well, maybe it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u48	Minister, I will continue to follow up on this matter. You can expect me to ask again for a state of affairs very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u49	Mrs Pas, you confirm that there are certainties in life.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u50	Mr Minister, the press has recently echoed a study by Transparency International, which estimates the movement of funds related to corruption in the Belgian civil service at EUR 4 billion. This assessment was supported by a former senior official of the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption, himself quoted in the media, who estimates that overbilling due to irregularities would average 20 per cent of annual public orders. In order to take stock of this issue, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you share the findings of this body on the state of corruption, particularly in the field of federal public actors? What is your assessment of the evolution of this problem? Do you have data on departments that would be more concerned with the phenomenon under discussion than others? What measures have already been taken at the government table to define and implement a strengthened anti-corruption strategy? Have innovative schemes already been endorsed and, if so, could you provide us with an outline of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u51	Mr. Calomne, currently within the Defence and P&O FPS, there are no cases of corruption in progress. We have no concrete evidence to assess the evolution of corruption in the federal government. In December, Transparency International published a Defence-specific study. Belgian Defence is among the best in comparison with other NATO and/or European countries. The P&O FPS and Defence have an internal audit service within them that assesses the reliability of the internal control system, risk management and good governance. In conclusion, integrity is a very important aspect of my policy. In this context, I refer you to point 5, "Promoting our values and setting an example" of my policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, integrity must be one of the priorities. I am pleased that this is also the case for you. I note that there are currently no files or investigations available, both within the Department of Defence and at the P&O FPS level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u53	Minister, we recently had a hearing in our committee with Mr Miguel De Bruycker, the new director of the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium. He talked about how he will make the center operational and how he will recruit his employees with what profiles. This showed that there are clear recruitment problems. According to the Cybersecurity Centre, Selor's current procedures have not been adapted to meet the needs of the appropriate profiles for the vacancies. The CCB is looking for cybersecurity analysts and they usually have a bachelor's degree. At present there is also only one Bachelor's degree programme to learn these skills, namely at the HoWest in Bruges. Some potential candidates have acquired these competences by other, digital means. The need for these profiles is high, both for the government and for the private market. The remuneration of such employees is therefore also quite high in view of their training. That's exactly where the shoe pinches. Mr De Bruycker would very much like to hire employees at the highest level of Selor, namely level A, but the associated procedure is very management-oriented and not suitable for the recruitment of employees with the specific profile of analyst for cybersecurity. Minister, are you familiar with the problem? Have you been in contact with the CCB? If so, when? What was the outcome of that conversation? Are there other similar problems in other public services? How can Selor make a change from diploma-oriented thinking to competence-based thinking?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u54	I am fully aware that the vacancies for IT profiles are difficult to fill. That problem also arises with the Defense Department, for cyber defense. Selor offers a number of solutions to the recruitment organisations on the basis of existing legislation. Thus, with my approval, several recent selection procedures for IT profiles have benefited from the derogation procedures relating to diploma, through the procedure "Schaarste" on the Labour Market, as referred to in Article 16 (2) of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937. In other words, virtually all selection procedures for IT profiles are subject to this provision. In addition, Selor is working to allow candidates who do not have the required diploma, but do have the necessary competences and/or experience, to participate in the selection procedures. The project is called "Earlier Acquired Competences" (EVC). An example of this is the boarding pass, as referred to in Article 16 (2) of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937. A candidate can therefore apply for a post for which he does not have the diploma requested, for example if he has a diploma in higher education, but does not have the required Bachelor's degree in level B to the federal government. He can then take tests to obtain a boarding pass for that level. If the candidate succeeds, he will receive a boarding pass at level B, for example. That boarding pass does not replace the diploma, but gives the candidate access to the selection at Bachelor's level for five years. In consultation with Selor, I can open up selections for that procedure. Where a job is open to candidates with a boarding pass, it shall be indicated in the conditions of participation of the selection. Finally, I have instructed Selor to investigate how we can speed up selection for the specific functions and promote the already existing initiatives more with the recruitment organisations. In the very short term, my services will be sitting with Selor to see how we can respond much more quickly to the high demand for security functions of the recruiting administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u55	Minister, I would like to have a little clarification. You have indicated that you can access level B with a boarding pass. Can this also be done for level A? My question was mainly about level A.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u56	I cannot give you an answer to that immediately, but we will look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u57	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 95, by Mrs Ben Hamou Mr Top 9648 has been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u59	Mr President, Minister, as part of the 2016 budget, the government announced its willingness to achieve, on a multi-annual basis, €750 million in savings in the civil service, including €100 million already in 2016. It did so without providing further details on how these savings would be realized while allowing the Public Service to continue to perform its various functions. All we had was a redesign of the administration. This situation is not satisfactory. It is all the less so as new savings would be added to the savings already made in the civil service by previous governments. In budgetary discussions, it was impossible to obtain details on how this could be achieved while maintaining a quality service for our citizens and the implementation of the sovereign functions of the State. Will you be able to do this without denying certain efficiency gains that are possible, as long as they do not leave the administration without means, and the workers completely demotivated? Otherwise, the cure will be worse than the evil. Minister, I have given you two months to elaborate your plans and intentions more precisely. Do you confirm the federal government's intention to achieve €750 million in savings in the civil service? What is the status of the discussions on this subject? Do intercabinets specify a more accurate view of things? What is the government's approach? How will these savings be distributed between staff and operating expenses, and also by FPS? How will you ensure that these savings will not prevent the various FPSs from carrying out their missions in the service of citizens? Can you communicate to me, SPF by SPF, the evolution of resources and personnel over the last five years? I know it created controversy. Perhaps Mr Bogaert will bounce back on the subject. Could you give us the same information about what we are interested in, that is, the next few years, from today to the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u60	Minister, the redesign of federal public services is an important programme aimed at improving the provision of services to citizens, which remains the essence for me. In addition, this redesign should also lead to significant cuts in expenditure. According to the tables distributed in Parliament in July 2015, they are EUR 100 million in 2016, EUR 200 million in 2017, EUR 250 million in 2018, EUR 100 million in 2019 and EUR 100 million in 2020. Together we are talking about a recurrent, structural amount of EUR 750 million. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, and this is the most important question for me, to what extent and how will this project contribute to a better service for the citizens of our country? Secondly, does your cabinet still support the amounts communicated to Parliament? Thirdly, does your cabinet still support the basic objective of the redesign? I quote that objective: "A substantial reduction in the number of FPSs, OISZS, IONS, the number of entities with less than 50 full-time equivalents and the abolition of PPSs'. Fourthly, what does a substantial reduction in the number of FPSs, OISZS and IONS mean? Which and how many are left and what proportion are they in? Is there an organisational schedule that reflects the final objective? Fifth, who is running this project right now? I have been informed that the project has been transferred from your cabinet to the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Jambon. Is that right? Were they communicated externally or through the Council of Ministers? What is the reason for this transfer, if any? Sixthly, are there or will there be external consultants involved in these projects? What is the budget earmarked for this purpose, if any? Seventh, what are the financial objectives of the various routes? What is the financial objective for the first stage, the so-called centrally coordinated federal purchases? What is the financial objective for the second stage, the collection of public revenue? What is the financial objective for the third stage, real estate and heritage management? What is the financial objective for the fourth stage, the operational improvements in safety? What is the financial objective for the fifth stage, the operational improvements in health? What is the financial objective for the sixth trajectory, the integration of service processes within the vertical FPS and other federal organisations? What is the total financial objective of these six routes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u61	The federal government agreement explicitly includes, as mentioned above, the substantial reduction in the number of public services as part of the reform and simplification of the federal government organisation. It is not a quantitative target for reducing the number of public services. An important step in this process is the decision taken by the entire Council of Ministers last year on the start-up of six routes. So a very commendable attempt is being made to place the responsibility for the six routes with me and my cabinet, but it is the entire Council of Ministers that has taken the decision on the six routes. These include centrally coordinated federal procurement, collection of government revenues, management of government real property assets, operational excellence in security and justice, operational excellence in health, and, to conclude, integration of service processes into vertical FTEs and other federal public services – horizontal integration, as they say. So this is a whole government project. The individual pathways were brought under the sponsorship of the relevant trade ministers. A steering committee, of which I am a member, manages the central overview. Let me make it clear once again that I am not the chairman of that steering committee. The goal is not, this is very decisive, to launch a comprehensive project. It is deliberately not the intention to draw up a new blueprint for the federal government. On the other hand, it is intended to launch a number of very concrete projects which can now be implemented and which will be able to show effects within this legislative period, hopefully as such, as a stepping stone to more. In the decision on the 2016 budget, the entire government has once again determined the savings to be achieved, without specifying by route. With regard to the projects covered by my trade ministership, in particular section 1, joint procurement, and section 6, horizontal integration, a note with specific objectives will be presented to the steering committee referred to above in the near future, i.e. in days earlier than weeks. In section 6, the support services will be brought together in one new horizontal entity by 1 January 2017. The four existing horizontal FPSFs will thus be integrated into this new organisation and thus cease to exist. In conjunction with this, a number of other necessary initiatives were launched for good governance and better service provision, e.g. the creation of the Federal Internal Audit Service as discussed earlier today, eight years after the publication of the Internal Audit Boards. Another example of an added project is PersoPoint, which you will recognize, Mr Bogaert, as the Directorate-General for P&O Shared Service Center or eHR, where we had an audit done before we took it back. This audit showed that centralising the staff administration could lead to EUR 117 million in efficiency gains over the next six years. This audit also showed that there was a gap in the financing of the project of EUR 13 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u62	Minister, I was hoping that this question would allow us to get out of the fog and slogans. I would have liked to know what the objectives of the CPS were and to try to assess whether the tax could continue to be properly collected despite a reduction in staff in the finance sector or to do justice properly when this sector continues to denounce – and very legitimately – its impossibility to work. I would also like to see what the impact of budgetary decisions would have on businesses that work for the federal government and have been complaining for too many years about late payments. But you're giving me little details. I held that you were hiding behind the whole government. I also learn that there are working groups of which you are part. That's pretty amazing! You are a minister of the public service and one of the members of the steering group that must succeed, and that is not a small one, in saving 750 million euros in the federal public service. Two months after the adoption of the budget, we are not much more advanced in this regard. I do not think that we can press the lemon indefinitely and still hope to obtain services for quality citizens. As in any company, there is certainly a capacity for gain and efficiency – if possible, with constant service and respect for workers. But to do this, it takes something other than slogans. Social dialogue and a clear vision are essential. I don't see them at this point. You should come back very quickly, with the government as a whole, before this or another commission, in order to clearly present your plans. Similarly, you should inform and negotiate with public service workers' unions. However, I have the greatest concern about the government's ability to make good progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The intention is not to establish individual responsibility, that is not the nature of my question. The question is simply a question of the state of play. I'm noticing a few things. Firstly, there is, frankly, a potential problem of ownership of the project. I suppose we'll have a deal. I can only follow you in that. Who am I, to say that things have turned out differently. So I guess that's the deal. Again, that was not my point either. However, organisational theory will indicate that shared responsibility is not a responsibility. However, Minister, the danger is as follows. According to official communication, you are responsible for Staff and Organisation. If nobody says it's his project, it's not necessarily bad, but it's definitely not a good omen. You reply that your competence concerns projects 1 and 6 and that you have no problems with all projects in themselves. It is, of course, something that you would have proposed. The question is, of course, the connection to the budget. After all, EUR 750 million is a lot of money. It may be that these projects are all good projects, which are expected to come to a successful conclusion. However, turning that point into a bridge to EUR 750 million is quite a leap. I asked what the financial objective per route is. You have replied that no objective has been made. I'll write that down. There is also no blueprint of a new government, which worries me, because the title redesign assumes the following. It can be seen from a distance that during the previous period a lot of work has been done on linear and budgetary objectives. The expectation was, of course, that now things would be put in order and the structures and the organization chart would be put in place properly. However, that is clearly not the intention. A number of improvement projects are chosen instead of a real redesign. The word redesign would assume that a reorganisation of all departments would be done, that everything would be put in place and that the number would be wieded. We have talked about a reduction in the number of FODs, OISZS and IONS. It is clear that this needs to be put in place over time. However, this is no longer the ambition of the project. So I fear that it is moving towards a more budgetary dimension rather than a real government redesign. I am concerned about the project, but not about your personal responsibility in this matter. That's not my point. I am concerned about the level of ambition I find reflected in the budgetary tables distributed in Parliament. It concerns EUR 750 million and six projects, which I all recognise. The question is what can be gained from this potential. That's not specified either. I therefore believe that there will be a huge delivery gap between what is being put first, namely 750 million, and what is coming forward here. To get 750 million people will have to go to a real redesign. Classic improvement projects, which will all have their merit, will not be able to draw EUR 750 million. If we can't get to you for the whole of it, the question is, of course, with whom. If you advise me to go to the Prime Minister's office and question him since it's the whole government team... I understand your answer. People from my party will also have to take responsibility for this. However, I do need to know who I have to be with to ask how the whole thing is seen. If there are no concrete objectives, then I think we should be concerned about the whole. I am open to a small discussion on this if the President is prepared to do so. Of course, Parliament always has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u64	Of course, Mr Bogaert, I always give Parliament the last word. However, I would like to specify a few things. I don't want to escape responsibility here. It is a fact that this is a project of the entire government. We have defined six individual pathways which are clearly under ownership of a guardian minister. That seems obvious to me. For each of the six individual routes, of course, there is someone specifically competent and responsible and that person is working things out. It should not be the objective to change structures simply to change structures. No, of course the intention is to do better, to avoid duplication of effort and the like. I can only say that within my own responsibilities. You have sat in my chair and you know that your power does not extend beyond your own FOD P&O and possibly the organizations such as Selor that adhere there. Even for Fedict, for example, I am not competent, but I am my colleague. This route has entered and we go from four to one, being a reduction by three. On fourteen FODs in total, that's not bad to start with. I do not want to speak for other ministers, but I also see that social security is being regrouped within the public institutions. Tasks are shifted, processes and so on. Is that a redesign? Yeah, but it's not the big bang. We have specifically chosen to take concrete steps forward in order, of course, to reap the budgetary benefits in the short term. Rather than a big bang, we have chosen to go step by step towards what is feasible. I do not need to list the projects with very good intentions from the past. On paper they looked very good, but today they sometimes lead to frustrations. I am thinking specifically of the copycat reform, because they were never carried out as a whole, which is of course a pity. What's my next role? In the Council of Ministers or in the relevant ministers, I am the minister who facilitates. We have therefore created a common or similar approach, which should now be noted by the various working groups. It has to be completed in the very short term. We are talking about days rather than weeks, let's say in two weeks. Then we must come up with concrete objectives and hopefully you will get more answers to your questions. This is also consistent with other budgetary discussions. You have enough political sense of reality to understand that. The financial impact that each of these routes will have will only then become clear. So we have not opted for an external large and comprehensive study, but rather for the process to grow from within.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u65	So there are no consultants involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u66	Today, there are no consultants involved. The working groups have started with a specific delineation of the domain and with the writing down of very concrete steps that one wants to take. The note, which is expected very soon, will indicate whether or not additional external assistance is needed. On this basis, external assistance will be requested for specific pathways.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u67	I am told that the cabinet... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u68	We have looked at how we can do the governance of that project. At political level, this is the core, under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister, enlarged to myself, the Minister for the Budget and the ministers concerned, depending on the project. At the intermediate level there are the chiefs of the cabinet and then there is the steering committee. In fact, we could have again chosen to get someone outside and have them lead the steering committee. We have also opted for a pragmatic approach and have appointed a member of the Jambon cabinet who is in charge of the steering committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u69	Mr. Smets?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u70	That's right. Instead of setting up an external project management office with the government, we have wondered how we can keep the government as small as possible and maximise the impact and let it come from the working groups. That is the whole purpose of the redesign, as we have now defined it. The focus of those working groups and the real improvements is not the big bang, but the consideration of what we can do together and do effectively come from the lower level. From there, results can be achieved quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u71	Minister, I welcome the fact that you say that no big bang should be allowed. No one is asking for that either; we are not asking for that at Community level, and certainly not in this reorganisation, this redesign. A big bang won't get things moving, so nobody's asking. As far as I can see now, I have nothing against these six routes in general, because they all seem to me to make sense. Some things are new, others were already there, such as buying together. I support that, of course. So that's not where the difference is. There I transcend what you have defined as your political perimeter. I am actually addressing the nuclear cabinet and the Prime Minister. I'll follow your instructions in that regard. These are all good things, but the big profits will come from looking horizontally and transcending the vertical, by having a global view of government administration. For some, that's back office, but that's the most important thing. Look how Greece gets into trouble now. The lack of a modernised public office means that Europe has been given promises that cannot be carried out because the operations are not there to do so. No one in this room underestimates the importance of modern government administration. If, of course, 750 million is to be paid out to improve this, then I fear for these projects. Federal purchases are horizontal, but many things are vertical, while the idea was to work horizontally with redesign, to put everything on hold and to make big profits there. I am optimistic by nature, but I fear for the savings of EUR 750 million. I would like to make it clear that the potential is greater than EUR 750 million. People in my party also sometimes say that such savings can never be made, but I believe that this saving is indeed possible and there is much more than EUR 750 million to be achieved. However, I fear that a comprehensive exercise will have to be made to achieve that amount. Once again, I am addressing the nuclear cabinet that will have to vouch for that. The shift of the project, coupled with the political responsibility, with Mr Smets who then sits in the Jambon cabinet, is not nothing either. However, I do think that some external communication could be made on this subject. I've heard that, but I wonder if it's true. So it turns out to be true. Either you say that it is very consistent with the idea that it is a responsibility of the whole government, or something else is going on. Not for me, but at least it's important developments in that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-01-54-commissie-ic349x.u72	Mr Bogaert is passionate about the issue! Minister, there are certainly things to be done in terms of improving the Public Service. But you have to call a cat a cat: you have decided collectively to achieve 750 million euros of savings in the civil service but, at the moment, you are not able to tell me the impact in terms of staff, SPF by SPF, and in terms of operating costs. I feel like you're taking the case backwards! Your concern as Minister of the Civil Service is to have an administration that works, at the service of the citizens, that fulfills the various tasks of the State - already undermined by previous decisions of poorly thought savings, to the point of rendering the system inoperative. In Finance – I'm very interested in it – and in Justice, it doesn't happen one day without their representatives denouncing the non-functioning of their department, especially in the ability to finish complex cases. Here you decide on a budget amount and then you'll see. Two months later, you are not in a position to give us details and to bear the consequences of this decision in terms of personnel and operating capacity. I would ask again, and I would also ask the chairman of this committee, that the government take up its choices and come to the Committee on the Interior very quickly to present a table showing the savings that will be achieved - sector by sector - and to tell us how these sectors will be able to continue to function properly, in the service of the citizens. It is not a matter of meeting in ten years with a civil service so dismembered that it will no longer be able to carry out its tasks in the service of citizens. I have no problem with savings that help to make things work better. But it is too easy to decide on an amount and then not to take on the concrete consequences of the choice that has been made.
