ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u1	Mr.President, Deputy Prime Minister, representatives from 50 countries are trying to finalize the Agreement on Trade in Services (ASC or TiSA in English) these days before the end of 2016. On November 10, the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) published a new analysis based on the information that filtered on the draft agreement. It explains how the TiSA could further concentrate power in the hands of multinational companies, take control of vital regulations such as the environment and health, undo the limited progress made in regulating banks and ultimately lead to a form of "uberization" of millions of jobs. The information disclosed in this report shows how governments will have to "consult" multinational corporations before considering new regulations and how standstill and rattling mechanisms will make it impossible to reverse privatisation that would ultimately prove negative. Two annexes to the TiSA would explicitly restrict the ability of governments to regulate. The "transparency" annex obliges governments to notify foreign service companies in advance of any proposed regulations and to give them the opportunity to comment on them. These criteria could increase pressure on regulators and act as a deterrent to a trade dispute. The Annex on Domestic Regulation, on the other hand, would allow for a judicial remedy against regulations when they are considered "more stringent than is necessary" for foreign service providers. The provisions of the Annex on domestic regulation would still allow trade dispute settlement bodies to challenge decisions taken by democratically elected institutions. Deputy Prime Minister, these are my questions. This ITUC report was based on leaks made possible by Wikileaks, in the absence of official publication of documents on the Internet or – a compromise position – their provision to parliamentarians in camera. Do you therefore intend to allow us, in our capacity as parliamentarians, access to the consolidated text of the TiSA, in the ad hoc bodies, as you have done for the TTIP, allowing all transparency and democratic analysis? Could you please explain to me the state of play of the negotiations, in particular those concerning the two annexes referred to above? What is Belgium's position on this matter? We were not able to address the issue of the TiSA at our meeting, which was held almost in camera, since we were only four or five. That is why I have allowed myself to put this question. In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u2	Mijnheer de voorzitter, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the TiSA negotiations were temporarily put to an end. On Friday, 18 November of this year, the participants decided to cancel the ministerial meeting scheduled for 5 and 6 December. In return, there will be a meeting of the Chief Negotiators, whose main purpose will be to take stock and consolidate the achievements in the hope that everything can resume in the spring of next year, including a new administration in the United States, as you know. It is true that it has not been possible for the TiSA to set up a reading room system to give access to the texts consolidating the negotiating positions of the 22 parties to the negotiations outside the European Union. However, I had suggested this to Commissioner Malmström at the beginning of the year. On the basis of the difficult negotiations with the United States for the establishment of the TTIP reading rooms, however, the Commissioner has quite logically explained that it was not realistic to convince 22 countries to allow access to documents that describe their own negotiating positions, sometimes very sensitive internally. On the other hand, you are talking about the lack of official documents on the Internet. However, the documents essential for the parliamentary work of executive oversight for these negotiations are indeed available. Indeed, as with the TTIP you are quoting, the Commission systematically puts online the main proposals it has made on behalf of the European Union in the framework of the TiSA negotiations. This was again the case with the second revised offer submitted by the European Union on 21 October. During the last round of negotiations in Geneva from 2 to 10 November, the countries participating in TiSA reached agreement on the annex on transparency. This Annex lists the commitments of the Parties with respect to the transparency and publication of existing or planned legislative or regulatory measures. Discussions on the Annex on national regulations have not yet been completed. Some elements are still under discussion. The necessity test you are referring to in your question is one of these issues, as there is currently no consensus among TiSA participants on this issue. Some countries still insist that such an examination be included, but I can assure you that Belgium and the European Union are not in favour of including such a provision in the Treaty. As regards respect for the ability to legislate and the requirements for data processing, I spoke again at the Foreign Affairs and Trade Council on 11 November to recall Belgium's consolidated position. On this occasion, Commissioner Malmström also took note of my call to give priority to the quality of the agreement sought for the TiSA to any artificial pressure on the timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u3	Minister, you know, when you don't know anything about a text under negotiation, that leaves the way to all interpretations and fears. I think that if the TISA did not bring any difficulty in the ability of states to legislate, if the TISA did not give the pre-eminence of the major industrial conglomerates and multinationals, then one could quite imagine that the consolidated texts, as is the case with the TTIP, would be accessible to parliamentarians. I encourage you to continue to try to convince the other 27 partners of the European Union in this negotiation to give us this access under the conditions of the TTIP. It would seem that once again, like the debate we had in 2013, when the New York Times explained that Business Europe in the case of TTIP had had privileged access to negotiators, the same phenomenon of "preference" of negotiators for multinational representatives is present. I don't think that can be. I have nothing against the fact that governments and negotiators have the ear of multinationals if they also have the ear of other associations representing workers, human rights associations and environmental associations. The challenge is not to give prominence to any one of the actors in civil society. Companies have their role to play, like all other dimensions. Here, however, we are talking about a service treaty that can have a significant impact on the way our public services operate. We must therefore move forward with the utmost caution. I hear meetings are cancelled, and I also hear that there is a great difficulty in moving forward on the schedule. I think that we also have the opportunity to be more transparent about what is being negotiated, or, at the time of ratification, to be subject to the pressure you have been subjected to in the case of CETA and to which you will probably be subject in the case of TTIP if any agreement is reached with the new US administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u4	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, on 27 October, 123 members of the UN approved a resolution to open negotiations in 2017 on the international ban on nuclear weapons. Thirty-eight countries, including Belgium, voted against. This vote will be confirmed in December at the plenary session of the UN General Assembly following the final report of the Open-ended Working Group on Nuclear Disarmament (OEWG), which recommended negotiations on the same subject. Mr Minister, do you not think that the diplomatic approaches advocating, on the one hand, a gradual exit, which is your view developed many times in this committee and by some of your European colleagues and, on the other hand, the immediate ban are complementary and mutually reinforcing? Why? Why not? Do the plans for the modernization of the nuclear arsenal of the nuclear States indicate that they are not genuinely interested in complete nuclear disarmament in the long term? If not, what concrete elements do they convince you of the sincerity of the nuclear States to want to disarm completely? This summer, I was at the Université française de la Défense where I heard on many occasions that the French government was very clearly considering the modernization of its nuclear weapon. How is that sincere? The OEWG underlines the crucial importance of transparency and of reducing the importance of atomic weapons in security doctrines. Are you ready to communicate, in a transparent manner, on the presence of nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel and to plead, at the next NATO summit in Brussels in 2017, in its new headquarters, for a decrease in the role of nuclear weapons to be present in future security doctrines? Finally, are you of the opinion that an international nuclear-weapon-ban treaty is not the same as the negotiation of a simple nuclear-weapons convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u5	Mr President, Minister, Mr Hellings has already explained this and I shall confine myself to the following questions. Will Belgium, despite the fact that we did not support the resolution, still participate in the UN negotiations? If so, how will this happen; as an active participant, merely as an observer or otherwise? What position will our representative take in this regard? What elements are ultimately needed in order to possibly agree to a prohibition treaty? Belgium is still in favour of global nuclear disarmament. Which other international organisations will Belgium take part in to pursue this objective?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u6	Mr President, I have already put a question on the same subject. Since I did not receive an answer to all my questions at the time, I retabled them. I'll listen with interest if I get an answer now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u7	I wish to reiterate that Belgium voted against the UN resolution on the negotiation of a nuclear weapons ban, because we believe that such a measure will not contribute to the effective elimination of nuclear weapons. Without the participation of nuclear weapons states and without a reliable verification mechanism, such a treaty will not lead to the dismantling of even one nuclear weapon. I would also point out that a large majority of EU Member States voted against the UN resolution, as did all NATO Member States, with the exception of the Netherlands, which abstained but had exactly the same concern as the other NATO Member States. It is true that nuclear weapons owners such as China, India and Pakistan abstained in the vote. These are exactly the countries that are currently expanding their nuclear arsenal, unlike the US, which has drastically reduced their nuclear arsenal since the end of the Cold War. Strangely enough, North Korea voted for the resolution. Do the honourable Members believe that this country has taken a courageous step towards nuclear disarmament? I'm not sure. I would also point out that the vote on this resolution took place in the first committee and that the resolution has yet to be confirmed in the plenary session of the UN General Assembly. Our final attitude towards possible participation in the negotiation process will be based on the basis of our nuclear policy, and in consultation with our allies, who are in favour of effective steps towards nuclear disarmament. It is therefore premature to communicate on this issue. I reiterate that Belgium has actively and constructively participated in all recent nuclear disarmament initiatives, including the activities of the UN Working Group known as the Open Ended Working Group. Belgium participated in a comprehensive set of proposals to help nuclear disarmament move forward in a realistic and pragmatic way, which you can read in a publicly available document. Together with similar countries, Belgium will continue to promote this progressive approach. I also repeat that the negotiations on a nuclear weapons ban risk undermining political involvement in the implementation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. A weakening of the Non-Proliferation Treaty undermines the cornerstone of nuclear disarmament, an important pillar of international security. In addition, the negotiations may lead to further polarisation and division of the international community. In a climate of mutual distrust, the possibility of constructive dialogue with all parties involved, including nuclear States, will be made more difficult. However, such dialogue is necessary if we want to make progress in nuclear disarmament, for example in the area of further confidence-building and transparency measures, the entry into force of the nuclear ban treaty, the reduction of nuclear arsenal and so on. Moreover, the implementation of a prohibition treaty will not be verifiable. The question of verifiability is technically complex. Moreover, Belgium has been actively engaged in this theme, joining efforts with a small group of States that are working together to develop technical solutions to the challenges associated with the scientific verification of a future nuclear disarmament agreement. This is a real and concrete contribution of our country to global nuclear disarmament. These solutions will be applicable in any case and will serve to make a graduated disarmament process credible. As far as NATO is concerned, I recall that the Alliance has made considerable efforts towards nuclear disarmament. It supports the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. It has reduced overall the number of its own nuclear weapons and has diminished the role of nuclear weapons in its doctrine of deterrence. Belgium will continue to work for the continuation of these efforts, while fulfilling all its obligations in this area within the Alliance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u8	Minister, the Netherlands abstained at the time of the vote in this working group. We could at least, as a first step, act as our allies, friends and Dutch neighbours. We could denounce the presence of nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel, which we do not do. We could also fight to ensure that NATO doctrine is no longer as nuclear. You're saying there's progress. A few weeks ago, we had an exchange of views on the last or penultimate paragraph of the Warsaw Summit Declaration, where, on the contrary, we demonstrated, for the first time, in a declaration at the end of the summit, that tactical weapons, such as those stored in Belgium, appeared in Kleine-Brogel. This means that Belgium could, at the same time, ask its allies, the French, the British and the Americans, not to modernise their nuclear weapons, for political reasons, but also for budgetary reasons, since this will be a huge issue that will tarnish our neighbours and allies. In this case, we have often discussed it, for many years, in order to stop dancing at the ball of false asses, we must stop dancing and making others dance, i.e. taking the various initiatives I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u9	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is also our view that we should proceed in a realistic and pragmatic way. We are convinced that we can only achieve this disarmament by building confidence and continuing to negotiate. A nuclear weapons ban will have little effect if the nuclear weapons states do not participate. Perhaps another appeal, Minister, to participate constructively in the negotiations based on the principle that talking is probably the best way to get somewhere in the long run. Moreover, in view of a seat in the Security Council, it does not seem bad to us to be very constructive in our approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u10	Mr. Secretary, let us stop looking at the others. We have signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty and it states that we are committed to a nuclear-free world. An international nuclear weapons ban treaty cannot be equated with a nuclear weapons convention. I regret that Belgium does not play a more active role in this search for slopes that should lead to a nuclear-free world. I will continue to urge this government to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u11	Mr President, Mr Minister, it seems that some of the ambassadors who have gone to the pension are given certain missions on occasion. This could be the case in the near future for the renewal of our Special Envoy for the Great Lakes Region. Minister, can you first confirm to me the information that missions are being delegated to former ambassadors on board? If that is the case, can you give me the reasons why you use it? How many retired ambassadors are involved? What types of missions are granted to them? How are they recruited or selected? How are they designated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u12	Mr. Chairman, the function of Special Envoy for the Great Lakes region has been the subject of a traditional recruitment procedure in the Selor. It was open to everyone who considered that it met the conditions of recruitment. This is not a mission, the function of special envoy is essential in the context of our country's relations with the countries of the region. The function helps Belgium to put its mark on the various issues concerning the region and strengthens our relations with other major players (the United States, the United Kingdom, the United Nations, France or other partners). It is clear that the function must be performed by a candidate with the necessary experience, which has severely limited the number of candidates. At the time of selection, it turned out that the most suitable candidate was a person who held a position in my administration and was retired on September 30, after a long career as an ambassador. She has acquired an invaluable experience in the Great Lakes region. The winner replaces the special envoy for the Great Lakes region, who is also a retired ambassador recruited through the same procedure. At the moment, there is still another post that is held by a retired ambassador, who was previously our permanent representative to the United Nations. The procedure was also followed in the same way. As you know, Belgium has just launched a campaign to obtain a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2019-2020. Our country wishes to accede for the sixth time since the creation of the United Nations to one of the most important decision-making bodies within the United Nations. It has therefore been decided to strengthen the United Nations service of our department in order to carry out this campaign. The winner was also selected through the Selor's classic engagement procedure. His diplomatic background and extensive experience in United Nations-related issues respond to the very specific competencies required for this function. We continue to move forward with one or the other typical function according to the procedures in force in the Selor. I believe that the successful candidates really fulfil all the conditions and possess all the necessary qualifications to carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u14	Mr President, Minister, following Brexit, the Presidents of the European Commission and of the Council took the time to reflect on the plans that could revive the European Union. The High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy has drawn up several projects on defence and collective security in order to strengthen the strategic autonomy of the European Union. Among the points raised by Mrs Mogherini is the project to create a border and coast guard agency. Mr Minister, is this project among the priorities of Belgian diplomacy? If so, can you provide me with information on the financial and human resources that will be made available to strengthen the existing system? I am thinking here, of course, of the Frontex agency which has shown its limits in times of crisis and which could perhaps be replaced by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency. Finally, can you tell me what the implications will be for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the migration crisis has revealed the weaknesses and shortcomings of the mechanisms for managing the Union's external borders and has demonstrated that the Frontex agency, due to the lack of technical resources and staff seconded by the Member States, is not equipped to deal effectively with this crisis. That is why the European Commission proposed, at the end of 2015, the creation of a European Border and Coast Guard Agency, which would take the place of Frontex and have more powers. The establishment of this European Border and Coast Guard Agency had already been the subject of a political agreement between the Member States under the Dutch Presidency. The European Parliament and the Council formally endorsed this agreement on 14 September. On 6 October, the Regulation officially entered into force. The European Border and Coast Guard Agency has now become a reality. The objective is to be operational by the end of this year. The creation of this new agency involves several changes. Thus, all Member States must now control their external borders according to identical standards. The European Border and Coast Guard Agency will regularly assess the situation in the Member States in order to identify any deficiencies. If it appears that a Member State does not sufficiently comply with its obligations, the other Member States may decide, by a qualified majority, that the Agency must intervene. A reserve pool of some 1,500 coastguards is planned. The European Coast Guard can therefore come back to a country in a few days. The number of staff increased from 402 to about 1 000 and the budget increased from 143 to 322 million euros. The new agency can also purchase its own equipment and is therefore not dependent on the Member States as Frontex was. Belgium is pleased with this new European Border and Coast Guard Agency, which is more efficient and integrated. Our country will make 30 people available to the reserve pool.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u16	Thank you, Minister. I believe that it was indeed necessary to set up this European agency quickly. We've seen Frontex's boundaries. Even our army had to participate, with the frigate Marie-Louise who is on the spot. It's going in the right direction. You confirm that these are 30 people and that, apart from these, there will be no financial participation from our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u17	Mr President, after two years of investigation, the joint investigation team reached its conclusions in October on the crash of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 in eastern Ukraine. The accident had claimed the lives of 298 people, including four Belgians. This report shows in particular the direct involvement of Russia. According to the investigators, the missile was launched from a territory controlled by the pro-Russians. Investigators don't know whether the shooting was intentional or not. Russia, for its part, refutes the accusations and questions the objectivity of the report. Minister, if the elements of the Joint Investigation Team report are confirmed, can you tell me what diplomatic actions our country could take in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u18	Dear colleague, Belgium, like the majority of States that lost nationals in the destruction of Malaysia Airlines' MH17 aircraft, welcomed the publication of the provisional results of the Joint Investigation Team. This joint team, whose professionalism and independence I would like to stress, has made tremendous progress. It is not up to any government to comment on the results of an ongoing independent judicial investigation, with the sole objective of allowing all the light to be shed on the responsibilities of those involved in the destruction of the MH17 flight. Resolution 2166, adopted unanimously by the UN Security Council in July 2014, calls on all States to cooperate fully in the international investigation of the incident. What is most important today is to allow the commission of inquiry to continue its work, without hindrance, so that justice can be rendered in an independent, honest and transparent manner for the victims and their families. We will continue to work in this direction, in coordination with other countries particularly affected by this situation, either because the aircraft belonged to Malaysia Airlines - you understand Malaysia's interest in this matter - or because the aircraft was shot down over Ukraine - and we can therefore understand the interest of Ukrainians in this matter - or because we, like other Australians and Dutch in particular, lost a number of nationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u19	I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u20	Deputy Prime Minister, we know the terrible economic repercussions, particularly in the Brussels Region, of the crazy decisions of the federal government regarding the lockdown. It is not easy at present to climb the slope. All economic actors, especially those related to tourism, could bear witness to this very much. As we try to climb this slope, the US State Department issued a travel alert in November and warned its citizens about the high risk of terrorist attacks in Europe during the summer holidays. That's not what's going to help us. That said, the reasons may be credible. I don't know. That's why I'm asking you today. Have you had contact with the US authorities, including the US Embassy to Belgium, regarding this travel alert and the information on which it is based? Have our intelligence services had any contacts that warranted or did not warrant this travel alert? If so, have our security services taken any action in this regard not only for nationals of other countries but also for our people? Is it necessary to see, in this travel alert, a kind of tourist protectionism, even to harm the European economy and Brussels in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u21	Of course, my services are in regular contact with the American Embassy to Belgium. I have already had a personal opportunity to discuss the situation of terrorism with my American colleagues and, in particular, with Secretary of State John Kerry, who also had the opportunity to visit us after the March attacks. Since then, on several occasions, attention has been drawn to the improvement of a number of security situations in our country. Exchanges are therefore regular on this subject. We also publish, like most States, travel advisories and alerts for a number of countries around the world based on the information we receive from security services. Travel advisories and alerts are entirely a matter of national sovereignty and should be used to protect, in this case, American citizens all over the world. Travel alerts issued by the United States authorities are issued on a case-by-case basis and are valid only for limited periods of time. They are linked to specific events such as, for example, the end-of-year celebrations but not only. Indeed, from our contacts with the US authorities, it turns out that just for 2016, two other alerts had been published before, notably on 22 March and 31 May. Of course, we believe that the travel alert instrument serves civil protection, not economic protectionism, to take up your last question. This is the message that we also regularly deliver when we adapt travel notices or when we keep them in the context of security thinking. I would simply point out that, for the time being, our country is still in a level 3 security situation, according to the data provided by the OCAM independently. This is obviously part of the analysis. However, we are taking a number of steps to try to reassure all those who would like to visit Belgium. This was done on the occasion of the King and Queen's State visit to Japan, with a concrete campaign to try to reassure tourists in this area. This was also done in recent days, on the occasion of the princely mission led by Princess Astrid to Texas. So these are messages that are being disseminated, but, I repeat, travel notices and alerts are entirely a matter of national sovereignty and should normally be limited to protecting the citizens of a particular country, all over the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u22	Minister, I was hoping for a stronger response to the problem. Travel alerts are issued on a regular basis. Each year, whenever tourists can be received, a travel alert is issued. I think it comes every time from the U.S. Department. Should it be possible to energize meetings between intelligence and police services by considering whether there is a particular problem? You have not responded to any possible contacts with the intelligence services to find out what is actually happening in the context of security and intelligence cooperation. On this basis, at the political level - I know that it is a matter of national sovereignty - useful contacts must be made to try, if - and I say if - it is not for security reasons, to remove this type of obstacle to a tourism policy and therefore economic and social policy which is important for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u23	Mr President, Minister, on 13 November the Israeli Ministerial Committee on Laws passed a bill to legalize wild settlements built on Palestinian private land in the occupied West Bank. Mr Minister, with particular reference to the resolution adopted by our Parliament most recently for the revival of the Middle East peace process, what bilateral position will Belgium take on this decision of the Israeli government if it is confirmed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u24	Mr President, dear colleague, Belgium, as well as the international community as a whole, is deeply concerned about this bill. As you know, we are totally opposed to the Israeli settlement policy and we call for the immediate cessation of new constructions in Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. We consider, in accordance with international law, that all settlements are illegal. This is also the position of the European Union and the international community as a whole. The bill in question, if adopted, would make it possible to regularize settlements that are illegal even under Israeli law. That would be tantamount to allowing dozens of settlements and thousands of additional housing, which would be completely unacceptable and would lead to the question of Israel's commitment to a negotiated agreement with the Palestinians. We therefore hope that this law will not be adopted. If it were to be done, Belgium intends to work with the other Member States of the European Union to provide a coordinated and appropriate response to what would constitute a new threat to the very viability of the two-State solution. You are aware of the approach that we continue to take with the various actors to favour this two-State solution. We will therefore continue to do so, and certainly if progress is made in passing this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for these points of answer. Unfortunately, this reinforces me in the idea that the text that has been adopted in this House is largely inadequate and that, by closing the door to possible sanctions, unfortunately, we will never be able to move this issue forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u26	The questions mentioned in items 15 to 23 of the agenda will be converted into written questions with the exception of item 19 where the question was put by Mr Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u27	Mr President, Minister, in reply to my previous question on B-FAST, you confirmed that there would be an audit of the Court of Auditors. At that time, you also indicated that a coordination council would meet shortly. Minister, has this coordination council met yet? If so, what was decided on the audit? Is it possible to get a report from that meeting? Have decisions also been taken on the reform of B-FAST?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u28	Mr. Chair, Minister, B-FAST is a structure that involves several FPS and Defence. This structure has proved its worth for more than 15 years, as our country has demonstrated, on many occasions, that it can respond effectively to the emergency. For months now and despite the repeated promises you made to us, we have still not read a line from the B-FAST audit report. You once again promised to come and present it to us in committee at the plenary session on Thursday, 13 October. I quote: "In July 2016, the Council of Ministers approved the note on the reform of B-FAST. I am prepared to present to the committee responsible the audit and proposals of all the departments concerned." Minister, I would like to ask you again the question: when do you intend, through the formal channels, to communicate the findings of this audit and the resulting reform to parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, I shall again give you the elements that have been put in place since then. We've had discussions on B-FAST lately. The Coordination Council met on 10 November 2016 and 9 December 2016. Several electronic consultations have also taken place since 8 November, as well as meetings of the Planning Committee. The Coordination Council of 10 November considered the appointment of the institution responsible for carrying out the financial audit requested by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2016. The Coordinating Council has decided to entrust the Inter-Federal Finance Inspectorate with this audit, considering that this institution is best placed to carry out this mission. It should be stressed that this appointment is based on an explicit agreement of all the Deputy Prime Ministers represented in the Council. At that meeting, the Board also determined the scope and scope of the audit. The President of the Coordinating Council is currently in dialogue with the Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate in order to refine the practical aspects of this mission. The results of this financial audit are expected in April or May 2017, given the extent of what has been requested. With a view to improving and transparency, the Presidency of B-FAST sent a questionnaire to various stakeholders of the Council (SPF Public Health, Internal SPF) and to Defence on the functioning of B-FAST in their respective departments and on their collaboration with Foreign Affairs. We received the questionnaire completed by Public Health and the Interior. We are still waiting for a response from the Defence. The Council also examined a number of improvement processes. For example, a B-FAST as a first responder decision matrix and a document setting out the basic principles for internal operation were submitted to the Board. The document basic principles for internal operation were adopted by the Council and a second document will be finalised in a forthcoming Council scheduled for mid-January 2017. A new external communication strategy was also discussed. The Council also decided to strive for the greatest possible transparency. In this respect, it was decided to involve the Coordination Council much more actively in the policy of B-FAST, whereas previously it met exclusively in the light of the possible dispatch of B-FAST. The aim is to reach an action plan for 2017-2019 as soon as possible and taking into account the recommendations and results of the audit requested. There was also a question about a possible audit of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has said that this is Parliament's task. I've always said I'm not against that. It is always possible for Parliament to ask that. But as far as the coordination council is concerned, the decision was to have an audit carried out by the Interfederal Corps of the Treasury Inspectorate. I think that is the best solution. As far as the conclusion of such an audit is concerned, I am prepared to provide, as soon as possible, in particular April or May 2017, a copy of such an audit to all members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I am convinced that the financial audit is absolutely necessary. I am strengthened in this by my written questions about the costs of B-FAST in 2015. We have come to the conclusion that, in addition to the different quality of the answers, there are also different figures. It therefore seems useful to me to know what the final cost is. I look forward to the audit report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u31	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. The process is slow, very slow. In any case, I hope that the deadline will not be longer or that there will be no delay. In the meantime, no matter what, I imagine there will be strong reluctance to use this structure. Moreover, she was not called upon when there was the disaster in Haiti. It will take until 2017, or even 2018 to have something finalized and consolidated. I find it a shame to deprive myself of this tool all this time. I say it and I repeat it, as much as I am convinced that it is a useful and relevant tool, as much as I can admit that at some point it has to be evaluated and developed. I find it a pity, however, that we are not doing so throughout this period, pending this audit. The process seems very slow to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u32	Mr President, of course I leave the last word to parliamentarians, but in order to avoid misunderstanding, I would like to say that B-FAST continues to function quite normally. If applications reach us, they are reviewed with a conclusion drawn by the B-FAST authorities. There is no arrest at all in any way. B-FAST continues its activities quite normally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the work of human rights defenders is a cornerstone of democracy and the promotion of a just and equitable society. However, as the agreements for the end of the armed conflict in Colombia are being implemented, there has been an increase in the killing of human rights defenders, mainly social leaders who are mobilizing for peace, people claiming land and environmental activists. From 17 to 21 November of this year, five leaders were reportedly murdered, and three were reported to have been the victims of attacks. And on the weekend of the 25th, seven other defenders were reportedly subjected to harassment and attacks. Human rights organisations have played a fundamental and essential role in the conduct of the Havana peace agreements and will play a key role in the information work on the agreements, the "pedagogy of peace", the monitoring and civil observation of the implementation of the agreements and the construction of a solid, stable and lasting peace. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What position does Belgium defend regarding these killings and threats against human rights defenders? Has Belgium sought, through the available political and economic instruments, results in the judicial investigation and conviction of those responsible for these attacks and in the effective protection of human rights defenders?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u34	Mr President, I have read this information. Colombia is indeed facing an upsurge in violence against human rights defenders, mainly in rural areas. Belgium condemns every murder and threat to human rights defenders. Human rights issues remain a priority for the European Union and Belgium and are systematically addressed in contacts with the Colombian authorities. Human rights defenders have long been a priority for the European Union, which adopted guidelines on human rights defenders in 2004. Our Embassy in Bogota closely monitors the situation with the European Union and its Member States on the spot and has participated in several actions in this area. For example, on 22 November last, the European Union and its Member States, as well as Norway and Switzerland, issued a joint communiqué expressing their concern about the murders of social leaders and human rights defenders and calling on the Colombian authorities to adopt preventive protection measures. On 1 December, the European Union handed over to the national protection unit responsible for the protection of threatened persons a list of threatened persons and organisations requiring urgent follow-up by this national protection unit. Our embassy has also recently taken the initiative of organising a field visit with the European Union's human rights group, during which the situation of human rights defenders has been discussed with the office of the Defensoria del Pueblo, the Ombudsman Office, which is responsible for ensuring respect for the rights of the population. I would like to stress that this worrying situation is also recognized by the State authorities. In an address on 22 November, President Santos ordered, among other things, the urgent intensification of measures to protect community leaders and human rights defenders. He called on the Public Prosecutor's Office to speed up investigations and the national protection unit to put in place the necessary protective measures. I believe that there is a real determination on the part of the Colombian authorities in this matter. It is also clear that the President's determination is particularly strong in other areas as well. It is sufficient to see the agreements concluded and adopted by the Colombian Parliament in these discussions with the FARC. It was a long-awaited agreement that also contains a number of provisions that may improve the security situation in the country. We pay particular attention to the situation of human rights defenders in the context of increased violence, particularly in rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u35	Thank you for your response, Minister. Indeed, there are elements in the peace agreement. The organisations, these people at risk, and myself, we ask the same question: how will they be implemented, in concrete terms, in the best way that it is, in any case, with regard to the protection of their rights? We must be particularly supportive of this implementation and continue to carry out important monitoring and support for the implementation of measures to protect these people. The situation is really catastrophic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u36	I come back to an issue that has already occupied us on many occasions, that of administrative detentions. Today, more than 700 Palestinians – women, men and children – are subjected to this unacceptable form of detention. Numerous reports by international organizations attest that Israel uses administrative detention as a means of collective punishment, which is contrary to international law. A motion for a resolution adopted in plenary on 23 November calls on the Government, I quote: "to continue to urge the Israeli authorities to put an end to the technique of administrative detention, including as a means of repression of political and community movements, to condemn this practice on the international scene, paying particular attention to the situation of minors detained under this regime, and to call on the Israeli authorities to guarantee the right of Palestinians to a fair trial". Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this. Have you ever been able to communicate with the Israeli authorities on this matter? Mohamed Abu Sakha, who is a professor and artist of the Palestine Circus School, supported by our Belgian cooperation, was arrested by Israeli soldiers a year ago and was sentenced to administrative detention. To date, no specific charges have been brought against him. On 11 December, Abu Sakha saw his administrative detention extended for a second time for six months. Do you have more information about the specific case of this person? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u37	Mrs Grovonius, we are aware of the six-month extension of the administrative detention of Mr Mohamed Abu Sakha on 11 December. This issue is closely followed by our Consulate General in Jerusalem. I have not had any direct contact on this subject in recent days, but the Consulate General has, in particular, attended the recent public hearing in this case. On 9 December, the office of the representative of the European Union for the West Bank and Gaza issued a local communiqué on administrative detentions, recalling the European Union's position and referring specifically to the case of Mr. Mohamed Abu Sakha, as well as other detainees. The communiqué was issued on behalf of all Member States' delegations in Jerusalem and Ramallah. This communiqué has been made public and is available on the website of the representative of the European Union. As I have already had the opportunity to recall here, our position on administrative detention does not suffer the slightest ambiguity. We are very clear in this regard by generally condemning these administrative detentions and by recalling that administrative arrests must be measures of an exceptional nature for a limited period of time and taking into account various guarantees such as the right to respect for the rights of defence of the detainee and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time. We continue to be in contact through our Consulate General in Jerusalem to convey our message to the Israeli authorities. When I have the opportunity to establish contact with Israeli leaders, I will return to this subject, as I did very clearly during my mission to Israel in May this year. It is clear that the message that is being disseminated by our department and by our representative in Israel always goes exactly the same way, just like that of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u38	Minister, I will also repeat myself. Your messages are the same as mine, but unfortunately it would seem that the Israeli government does not care and has no intention of giving them any positive follow-up. When can any sanctions be imposed to try to put pressure on that State, so that it finally respects international law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u39	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, if Mr Nkurunziza is for the third time President of Burundi - in defiance of his country's Constitution - it is not for lack of having used his presidential prerogatives extensively to guide the decision of the Constitutional Court to allow him to run for a third term. Unlike Mr Nimpagaritse, a member of the Court, who had to flee his country for refusing to trample on the Arusha agreements, regardless of the means of physical or financial pressure exerted on him, his other colleagues were far more permeable to the means deployed to reorient their reading of the Constitution. These acts, already reprehensible in themselves, are aggravated by the fact that, to be committed, Burundi's minority participation in a subsidiary of Heineken, Brarudi, was mobilized by Mr. Nkurunziza to influence the President of that Court, Mr. Ndagijimana. The latter was first appointed by the executive presidential decree of the company in April 2015, then, in October of the same year, thanked for allowing the president to be re-elected by being appointed, still by presidential decree, chairman of the board of directors of Brarudi. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, how can we make the words of European leaders calling on African leaders to respect democratic law and rules credible to the people if European multinationals, in this case Dutch, contribute by their acceptance - desired or forced - of such practices to demonize European diplomatic action? It is all the more worrying that following the cessation of any aid for the cooperation of the European countries in Burundi, Brarudi's tax contribution to the Burundian budget, which already represented one third of the country's financial resources until then, is now of major importance for the country's survival. The society in question does not need to lose its soul by soaking the pen of its agreements with the power in place in the blood of the thousands of Burundians falling under the blows of the Imbonerakure, to obtain tax advantages such as a reduction of the consumption tax of 80% on a new brand of locally produced beer, less than that of sodas, in a country where alcohol consumption already accounts for 17% of the expenditure of Burundians. Finally, it is all the more worrying that the Dutch Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, praises the positive action of this undertaking, which he believes contributes to the development of poor countries. A grant from the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs of about EUR 1 million was even paid to the multinational between February 2009 and June 2015 to help local farmers grow and provide its African breweries. So, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the forced instrumentalisation of the company by the Burundian government in order to protect the company and its employees, a collusion inherited from an age that we would like to have in the field of cooperation, can you inform us about the current position of the Dutch government, of Heineken, on this issue? Especially since the contacts between the three Benelux countries are excellent, I know that. What position has the Council of European Foreign Ministers taken in this area? How does the Council intend to act in such a way that multinationals do not undermine the actions of European governments towards real democratisation of the African states, and that they take responsibility for the consequences of their activities? What position, on behalf of Belgium, are you defending and what developments can be expected on this major subject concerning Europe's relations with the African continent?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u40	Mr Flahaux, I obviously do not have all the elements concerning the economic interests of other countries in Burundi. I can assure you, however, that the economic interests of Heineken, for example, in this country, did not prevent the Netherlands from voting with us on the "Article 96" measures which partially suspended European aid to Burundi - the meeting was also chaired by my Dutch colleague - but also on the individual sanctions of the European Union or, more recently, the UN Human Rights Council resolution which caused the Burundian authorities to react very strongly. I do not remember a single occasion when the Netherlands did not vote like us on Burundi, either in the European Union or in the United Nations. Similarly, Dutch interests in Burundi are not particularly affected, as evidenced by the recent unilateral suspension of a Dutch project on good governance by the Burundian authorities themselves. In the DRC, too, Heineken's particular position has not led the Netherlands to stand out from the European line on the electoral process and human rights, although the appointment of Judge Ndagijimana as head of the Brarudi Board of Directors raises legitimate questions. It is therefore not necessary to draw hasty conclusions. On Burundi and the DRC, our two countries therefore continue to work closely together. As far as we are concerned, I had the opportunity to remind my Burundian colleague, in an interview held in Naïrobi before the French-speaking summit in Madagascar, of our position on Burundi, hoping that, as soon as possible, a genuine dialogue could be established there. So far, we have not seen any very concrete developments in this area. The facilitator, former President Mpaka of Tanzania, is still in charge of the process, but I must admit that, for the time being, there is a feeling that the country is closing more and more on itself. On many occasions, we have adopted positions either bilaterally or jointly with our partners in the European Union or with, for example, the International Organisation of la Francophonie or within the United Nations concerning developments in the country. I wanted to clarify these elements concerning the Netherlands which have consistently remained on the same line with regard to these two countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u41	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. As I have high regard from the Dutch Government and Mr Rutte in particular, I would be angry if there was any collusion between the government and the main Dutch brewing firm, Heineken. I am reassured by your reply, in particular by the fact that the Netherlands has acted in the same way as we did with regard to sanctions against Burundi. Nevertheless, it remains – and you have said it yourself – that it is extremely unhealthy when a judge is at the same time president of a Burundian brewing company that offers interests to the country. Ideally, we agree that Burundian law itself should prohibit such practices. I do not think that would be allowed in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic555x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 15465 will be converted into a written question. In 2017, you will leave with a clean slate, Minister. All questions have been answered.
