ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u2	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u3	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before starting my budget debate, I would like to thank all my fellow Members, particularly the members of the Finance Commission, for their constructive cooperation and their constructive contribution to the budgetary negotiations. In particular, I would like to thank the President, Mr Van Rompuy, who made it possible to deal effectively with the budget in a short time, with respect for everyone, including the opposition, and to put it to the vote within a reasonable time, after which it was approved. In short, thank you very much to my fellow Members and to the President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is working on important structural socio-economic reforms and has vision. This government is working on substantial reductions, wage moderation, longer and workable careers, the competitiveness of our economy and job creation. Working for competitiveness is indeed the right choice for this government, and also for the previous government. The previous government launched the Competitiveness Pact and carried out a first set of cost reductions. This government goes a lot further and adds the tax shift, on which we had to hammer for a long time. With the reduction of charges and the increase in purchasing power, the focus is particularly on low wages, so that maximum efforts are made to create jobs. The real disposable income of private individuals............................................................................................................................................................................................. The increase was 1.8 % in 2016 and will be 1.1 % in 2017. Belgium's wage handicap vis-à-vis neighbouring countries is also further reduced. We were able to hear that from Eurostat yesterday. The pension reform pays off. The Study Committee on Ageing states that the budgetary costs for ageing populations have been halved as a result of a number of measures, including pension reform. The job creation works. Employment is increasing. There were 42 000 additional jobs in 2015 and 55 000 new jobs in 2016. Unemployment will fall to less than 8% and the European Commission expects additional 40,000 jobs for 2017. In short, the planned and predicted number of jobs due to the tax shift might be even more positive. Those jobs will be realized. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we will, of course, welcome the fact that there is more to it than the forecast of 145 000. We hope so. Job creation also occurs mainly in the private sector. As of 2017, the number of public sector jobs would fall for the first time in twenty years, but that smaller number of government jobs will be more than compensated by job creation in the private sector, which we have always intended for the tax shift. In addition, the number of start-ups in our country continues to increase: 2016 is the third year in a row ending with an increase in the number of start-ups relative to the number of stop-ups. Inflation is and remains a focus of attention. With 1.7 % in 2016 and 1.7 % in 2017, we are indeed higher than the average in the euro area. The government is also focusing on labour market reform with its project of manoeuvrable and workable work. The adaptation of the 1996 wage law and making our labour market more flexible and manoeuvrable are of great importance both for our competitiveness and for our prosperity. Our labour market can indeed create even more jobs through more flexibility and even more opportunities for groups of opportunities, which are still a little underutilised. In changing times where flexibilisation has become an important concept, both on the part of employees and employers, more attention needs to be paid to this. I also call on the government and the social partners to make even greater efforts in the coming months towards education and training and better integration of all sections of the population into the labour market. This will also benefit job creation and lasting prosperity in the future. The recent recommendations and reports by the IMF and the European Commission concern all public authorities together. That's right. Yes, the economic results of the northern part of the country, the Flemish Region, are much better than Belgium's results and are close to neighbouring countries. Over the last ten years, the economy in Flanders has grown by as much as 13%, in the Walloon region by 8% and in the Brussels-Capital Region by 4%. Not only the federal government, and we often insist on it, but also the Länder have a duty and an opportunity to focus everything on economic growth and job creation. The Länder have been given many opportunities and policy instruments in recent years. I hope that everyone, wherever they can, at whatever level of government, is working on growth and jobs. Cooperation federalism is needed today more than ever. Following the European Commission and the OECD, the IMF also spoke in the last week of major steps forward along the lines of the structural reforms undertaken. They're asking for more of that. A member of Ecolo denied this earlier, but the recommendations and reports do require more structural reforms. CD&V also requires more of the necessary reforms. After the first and the second tax shift I am repeating myself there is a need for a third budget neutral tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u4	Mrs Smaers, I would like to thank you for that, because you are delivering news twice. First of all, you believe that a tax shift should be fiscally neutral. A fiscally neutral tax shift would be a trend break. We have already discussed this at the plenary session this morning, and Minister Wilmès also said that there is still a lot to be financed in 2018 and 2019. Secondly, you say that there should be a third tax shift, and that is even more important news than the first point. I would like to thank you for that, because I know that your ruling in this majority is not easy. Some parties are allergic to all that smells like tax justice. Mr De Roover is not present now, but I suspect Minister Van Overtveldt will tell him. I hope that 2017 will deliver results in this area. However, since this has been announced several times, I would like to check the contours of the third tax shift. What do you think they are? I invite you to be very explicit on this point, as it has been dragging on for some time now. As you know, our group has already helped you by translating Kris Peeters' proposal on value added tax into a parliamentary document. The Council of State is currently finalising its opinion. I'd like to know if it's serious this time. Can it be assumed, for example, that this issue will be dealt with in the Finance Committee from 15 January, and that the social and political majority, including here in the Chamber, will be used to this end? The good news is that, as in 2016, there will also be a majority in 2017 for tax justice, for a fair contribution from the largest assets. It is a good thing that the Prime Minister is attending this meeting so that he can write that down properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u5	Mrs. Smaers, I too will help you a little. You're saying there's a second, budget-neutral tax shift to come. You know that the Court of Auditors has said that this tax shift will really have to be budget-neutral, otherwise we will have a very big problem by 2020. So the Court of Auditors is helping you. The IMF is also helping you, and you just referred to the IMF's recommendations. I am sure you have also read that one of these recommendations makes it very clear that there should also be a capital gain tax in Belgium. These are two elements which give your position even more force. I therefore hope that you will make both points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I consider your speeches to be rather encouraging. I shall now go into what such a third tax shift can and must mean for us. You won't sit on your hunger. Mr Calvo, we have always been serious, not just this time. Do you remember that two years ago we stood here and advocated a much-needed reduction in the burden on labour? At that time, we had to make an urgent effort to pass the competitive test with our neighbouring countries. Well, we were serious. That tax shift's arrived. Meanwhile, we see the consequences and results of this. I do not need to refer again to all the reports and recommendations on this matter. The tax shift has the result that we had in mind: reduction of burdens, shift of burdens and job creation in the private sector. So, yeah, we're serious again. I will continue with my speech, with a second theme. The policy pursued by this government is also social, ladies and gentlemen. The prosperity envelope is bigger than under Di Rupo. The budget for the welfare envelope continues to increase. The government made money available for the welfare stability of the lowest benefits and pensions, 31% more than in the previous government. The living wage was increased by 6% under this government. I assume that the opposition is not against the increase in living wages and not against the increase in the lowest benefits, pensions and lowest wages. I also assume that the opposition is not opposed to the recognition of the status of caregiver and not to the better and more extensive social status of self-employed workers. This government has decided not to go through a second index jump and has decided not to change the index basket. Unemployment benefits are not limited in time. So yes: this government is also social and has a social policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u7	I would just like to make a small comment on raising living wages. In doing so, we have simply forgotten the full benefits to disabled people. I've mentioned that several times. The amounts of the IVTs have been too low for a whole year. Legally these should be raised to the minimum wage. People don't do that. I have pointed this out to Mrs Sleurs on several occasions. The government has made that mistake and is therefore in illegality. The government must correct that error, with retroactive effect, I believe. There is nothing of this in the budget. This task has simply been transferred to the social partners. The adjustment is now coming on the back of those who could help the social partners with the welfare envelope, while the government should have included that adjustment in the budget. I can't stop thinking that's a scandal. I hope you will convey that message to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u8	Mr President, I have been questioned by some points and I would like to make three comments on what has been said. First, was there a tax shift compensation for the lowest incomes? Yes, but on the other hand, the middle classes were heavily, if not brutally, imploreded and had no return to what had been so announced. Secondly, Prime Minister, despite the Secretary of State's request, rejected by the government, why have disabled people who receive an income replacement allowance not benefited from the tax shift correction when you guaranteed it? As a result, those disabled or seriously ill persons who receive an income replacement allowance receive an amount less than RIS. The government's only response is to ask them to contact CPAS with extremely cumbersome administrative procedures. I hope that the government, faced with people with disabilities and serious illness, does not show a bureaucratic attitude by referring them to other interlocutors, ignoring their promises. The Secretary of State said that she wanted it in the 2017 budget, but that the government, all other government partners, had refused. You can still correct this decision. Indeed, it is too easy to refer the problem to the social partners. I can understand that you intended to deal with this issue in a second phase, but the responsibility of your government and the majority was to change this income replacement allowance to avoid penalizing people with disabilities and serious illness. I hope that you will finally be able to do so and stop sending them back to the CPAS, subjecting them to very heavy procedures. After that, I would understand that you were speaking to the social partners. Thirdly, I would like to address the problem of close caregivers. Under the previous legislature, we have jointly defined a statute which, today, is still practically empty. The economic contribution – I weigh my words – of these close caregivers as well as their qualitative contribution to children or people seriously ill around them are major. Again, I would like to urge the government not to make this status an empty shell, but to see concrete progress in this area that can support these caregivers. If such persons were to be cared for elsewhere, for example if they were to be hospitalized for extended periods, it would be much more costly for the State budget. I would like to highlight this point in particular when I turn to the CD&V. I know you're sensitive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u9	We are indeed sensitive to these points. We therefore very much welcome these points, including those relating to the IVT. That is a justified point, and I am not going to avoid it. By the way, we also asked that question in the government. The government now leaves it to the social partners to find a solution from the distribution of the wealth envelope to the problem of the IVT and recently, through Mrs Sleurs in the committee, replied that it would decide on this matter once the matter was brought back to the government table. We therefore continue to insist on a solution. That can indeed be expected in this respect. I will return to the debate on the tax shift. The current government is working towards fair taxation. Whoever drives a polluting type of car, who gambles and indeed who smokes, should contribute more. The current government is demanding significant contributions from the banking sector and has introduced the Cayman tax. The rates of withholding tax have never been higher. It is true that we do not have to tax anymore but differently. Tax pressure in the country is very high. We cannot continue to explain that everyone who works is still burdened too heavily, while some property income is not taxed. A reform of corporate taxation is not only desirable for us, but also necessary because we are not an economic island. We have four important principles in this reform. Firstly, it must benefit employment. Secondly, it must be SME-friendly. Thirdly, she must be just. Fourthly, it must be budget-neutral. An added value tax on shares also needs to be SME-friendly, growth-enhancing and fair. I am grateful to Mr Piedboeuf, who is not present in the Chamber at the moment, for confirming in his speech that the issue of added value tax will be on the working table in the coming months and that a decision will have to be taken on this matter. In addition to the reform of corporate tax and share added value tax, CD&V remains convinced that more is needed and that a budget-neutral third shift is needed in the coming years. In implementing it, Mr Calvo, you asked what is in it, and we must take into account the principle of dual income tax and make our taxation and our economy greener and more sustainable. The introduction of a mobility budget, which is only light, is a first step for us. With a view to sustainability and greening, many more options can be achieved if we also want to achieve the climate objectives in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u10	Mrs Smaers, I almost wanted to invite you to sit on our benches later, because it sounds like music to the ears. The CD&V Congress has welcomed the group. I want us to understand each other. There is the slope around corporate tax, not only important but also necessary. That's where we find each other. It is a pity that an important reform such as that of corporation tax has been so misguided in recent months. Let us hope that 2017 will bring a breakthrough in this area. You are also talking about the added value tax. I did not hear this, but I take your word for it that Mr Piedboeuf has stressed that this would be a work in progress. It will hopefully be more than just research; steps must also be taken. You know as well as we do that our country can and must be more just in this area. Have I understood you correctly, Mr President, that this would be an important point and that you think it is logical that the opposition should insist on these points and that you think it is equally logical that we should go even further, since the third tax shift, which you are talking about today, is a reflection along with value added tax and corporation tax? Speak against me if I've misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u11	You heard me say exactly the same on these banks last year. I suspect you were there last year. It's not the first time I've said that. I deliberately said that I repeat what I said last time. In our view, the third tax shift must respect the principles of dual income tax, greening and sustainability of taxation and economy. Is that for the next few months? No, the reform of corporate taxation and the introduction of capital gains tax on shares should be pursued in the coming months. In our view, the value added tax on shares is a first part of the third tax shift, which includes more than the company tax files and surplus tax on shares.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u12	I have to donate my joy a little bit, but I still want to get to work with what's on the table. You said once again that a third tax shift should be added to the reform of corporation tax and the introduction of added value tax. You then say that everything is separate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u13	That is our vision for the coming years, its realization does not have to happen in 2017. For this vision, which the CD&V Group supports, we want to take steps gradually, as with the first and second tax shift, with the company tax and the surplus tax on shares for 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u14	Mrs Smaers, I suspect that you agree with me that we are not just here to read out our party programme and are not making any non-binding statements here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u15	I don't suppose you do either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u16	This is not a non-binding debate. If, as a majority party, you are launching today the concept of a third tax shift, it is normal that we want to know exactly what that means and when it will come. You have to understand that. For both the story of the added value tax and the corporate tax, can I assume that they absolutely have to be implemented in 2017? Yes or no? Furthermore, I welcome the third tax shift, which you are announcing here, because I agree with your analysis that our taxes should be greener, fairer and simpler. But is the third tax shift, which you are here to advocate, one for this legislature, or are you just making an announcement for the next time, possibly, perhaps, if the voter decides? I would just like to understand that at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u17	Mr Calvo, once again, I am saying the same thing again as last year. The third tax shift, the greening and the dual income tax, is for us the guide, the vision of CD&V, to which we work out year after year, day in, day out. Yes, our government is also taking important steps in implementing our vision on this issue. You are right, for 2017, the reform of corporate tax and the surplus capital tax on shares are important dossiers that are on the table. However, this does not mean that CD&V would not want to do more work in the years to come, for example, on the mobility budget, the sustainability of the fleet and the greening of our taxation in various areas. I notice that this is not just a vision, which is our guiding principle, but that we are moving forward step by step. This budget, too, provides for a number of measures around the mobility budget and around the tank cards, which make our vision stand out step by step.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u18	Mr Calvo, I have a detailed opinion on the dual income tax, which includes a chapter on corporation tax and added value tax. As a loyal reader of my blog, you may have read that already. As a CD&V, we have very detailed proposals and, as Mrs Smaers said, the dual income tax is a fundamental reform of our taxation. In the future we will place taxable income in two boxes. We believe that all income from labour, social benefits, wages, pensions and so on will be taxed progressively. A second box contains all income from capital, such as real estate and movable income, and capital gains that are taxed at a fixed rate not proportionally but at a fixed rate. That is the dual income tax we are proposing for the future. The Prime Minister made it very clear in the State of the Union that he wants to reduce corporate tax in the short term. We, too, are in favour of this. In this respect, proposals have been made by Minister Van Overtveldt who were also considered by the Supreme Court. He's working on it. As far as the issue of added value tax is concerned, we have outlined very clearly the contours for such an added value tax. It must not be at the expense of SMEs or small savers. We have built in the necessary floors in this area. You filed a bill based on our text. I can tell you that your text is not correct, because we are going beyond what you are proposing. Let me give you our text again. This will also shed some light on this debate. We wish to respond to the Prime Minister's commitment. After all, he has said that he will consult a number of bodies in the coming months. He will then make proposals on company tax, added value tax and the question of Open Vld on risk capital. For us, the third tax shift is in the triangle that the Prime Minister will be dealing with, and for us it must be budget neutral. As in the case of the second tax shift, there is no way that there are high risks associated with compensation. This is a clear position of CD&V. What Mrs Smaers is saying is, in my view, the interpretation of the position of the CD&V Group. She also discusses what the Prime Minister has promised us in this matter in the State of the Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u19	There's some noise on it every now and then. I've already read your congressional texts, but a little extra vacation reading wouldn't hurt. I understand that, in the longer term, steps are being taken towards dual income tax, just as we want to see a drastic reform for commercial vehicles. I don't hear any concrete timing there, but I don't have to. I would just like to argue that we should do as much as possible instead of thinking about what we could do in another legislature. Regarding value added tax and corporate tax: do I understand that 2017 is really the year in which results have to be achieved for you? You are frowning the eyebrows, Mrs Smaers, but you must understand that that question is being put to you here. You actually gave the reason for that rather pressing question, because you yourself said: 'I said the same thing last year.' Indeed, last year you said here on the floor of the budgetary negotiations: 'Next year we will do so and we will do so'. It doesn't cheer me up, but for the time being, you haven't been able to convince your coalition partners of that. On this point, I would like to invite you to be very explicit, and that also applies to you, Prime Minister, because that is the benefit of your presence and to answer my question: will 2017 be the year of added value tax and corporate tax reform, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u20	Mr Calvo, you have heard me correctly a moment ago: I do not need to repeat this five times because you ask. I told you that this is important to us in the coming months, and yes, this is important also in 2017. Yes, that is not only important to us, we say this not only, again: the first and the second tax shift came, two and three years ago. Here in Parliament, I remember June and July two years ago, no one from the opposition believed that the first and second tax shift would be there. That was discussed at the end of June, at the beginning of July two years ago. No one believed he was going to get there effectively. Did he get there? Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u21	No, he didn't come. I'm sorry. It wasn't a shift. You were also in the discussion of the European Commission and the Court of Auditors: this tax shift was not financed. There's a shortage, so there's no tax shift. There have been reductions in the burden on labour; that is right, and we are absolutely in favour of it, that is right, but there has been no shift. You have to acknowledge that. And again, he's not funded. And not only the Court of Auditors and the European Commission say that; the chairman of the Finance Committee, your party colleague, also says that it has not been financed. Mrs Smaers, once again, I truly and sincerely hope that your next tax shift, which you are so striving for, will be effectively funded and that you will not shift everything back to a next generation and a next government, because that is what you are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u22	Neither do we. And yes, that shift did come. Colleagues of the opposition, you contradict each other. Mr Laaouej has just asked a number of times for what is good for all these increases in consumption, VAT and withholding tax. Well, that's exactly the shift we've been working on. So do not contradict yourself: there is a shift, you are suing him yourself on the other side. Ladies and gentlemen, I come now to the specific budgetary aspects. CD&V wants a credible budget. Yeah, we all do. Too often we have had income that was lower than budgeted. After the European Commission, the OECD and the Court of Auditors, the IMF also touched on our country's budgetary policy. Yeah, we dare to name that, too. 2016 will be difficult in budgetary terms. More than ever, there will be a need for a proper monitoring of public administration expenditure and budgetary objectives, as well as of social security management entities. More than ever, there will be a need for accurate monthly monitoring of revenue and expenditure, so that there will be no recurrence of disappointing revenue and savings in September 2017. CD&V insists that we effectively deliver on the planned structural improvement in public finances and debt write-off to which Belgium has committed itself Europeanly. If we want to ensure our prosperity in a sustainable way, we must also work on this fiscal restructuring and debt write-off. I refer specifically to a number of comments made by the Court of Auditors and statements made in the Committee on Finance, to our comments on underutilization and commissions. Yes, the Court of Auditors also noted once again that better and clearer use can be made of underutilisation and commission. More clarity should be given about the destination and the proper use. The Silver Fund is being shut down. The Court of Auditors pointed out that the closure of the Silver Fund has no impact either on the balance of claims or on the debt. The European Commission asked in committee for enforceable budgetary arrangements between the various governments, between the federal government and the Länder. We also call on all the authorities in this country to make a credible effort, which is carried out by all the authorities in the Conciliation Committee. We support the further recourse to the flexibility clause in 2017 for security expenditure. The European Commission has also agreed to this for 2017, given the high additional expenditure resulting from the attacks on 22 March. Too bad, but unfortunately we have to re-establish today that investment in security, both in infrastructure and in data, ICT and neighbourhood workers, has become a necessary and daily reality. Colleagues, the government has put forward a budget with an ambitious effort for 2017. We hope that the cumulative, structural improvement for 2016 and 2017 will be achieved effectively. That will require a follow-up. There are still a lot of challenges to meet this improvement. We don't want to get out of the way. We want to work together with the government to address these budgetary efforts and challenges. The considerable structural effort to strike a balance will also have to be met, as will the correction of the deficit in financing the tax shift and the recovery of the primary balance, so that we are armed against the impact of an increase in current, historically low interest rates, which may be coming now that the US Central Bank has decided to raise interest rates. The Belgian government debt is at 107 %. We believe it is important to reduce it in the years to come. We also know that ageing costs will peak in 2040. The structural measures taken by this government have effectively reduced future costs, but in this legislature their budgetary impact will be rather small or minimal. In the next few legislative periods, it will be possible to reap more and more benefits, but efforts will still be needed to address ageing costs effectively. Deciding, this government is doing what it has to do. I wish her every success in following the path taken and, in addition to the structural reforms, in pursuing fiscal consolidation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have almost succeeded in getting the job done. Thanks to the committee chairman and a joint effort by both the majority and opposition members, we will meet the deadline and Belgium will be able to have an approved budget for 2017. However, Mr Prime Minister, I believe that it is highly appropriate that we should be able to obtain the documents more quickly in future in order to be able to hold the debate. I do understand that the job that had to be done for the 2017 budget was immensely difficult. As far as I am concerned, the result is most important, and that is now on the table. The government's been running for two years now. The main objective of the government was very clear, namely to create jobs, jobs and jobs. I can only conclude that the government is reaching its goal of getting more people to work, so more people putting their shoulders under our economy and more people contributing to social security. We note that there is more growth and more employment and that more contributions can be collected in this way, so that we can balance the system. The second objective was to reduce the overall public debt and tax burden. The third objective, certainly not the least important, was the improvement of the budget. I believe that after two years of Michael's administration, the economic bilan is excellent. As far as job creation is concerned, the government is fully successful. The National Bank has put the figures on the table and many colleagues have cited them: 105 000 new jobs. The most important thing, however, is that the government has succeeded in achieving a true trend break by ensuring that the majority of them were created more than 70%, 72 000 jobs in the private sector. And there is the difference for someone who was still in Parliament at the time of DAC and BTK projects and other systems, such as co-financed and co-financed. I believe that it has been shown here that the government is heading in the right direction. This means that employment in the private sector is at the highest level ever. The number of job offers today is 27 % higher than a year ago. The number of unemployed fell by 5.1 % in a year. The rate of activity increases, especially in Flanders, and in certain regions we achieve almost full employment. As a blow to the head, the National Bank expects that some 100 000 additional jobs can be created in the next two years. In other words, the cape of the 200 000 new jobs is in sight. That is, of course, an important achievement. Of course, the government must be modest. Jobs are not created here, in Parliament, but they are created by entrepreneurs who take risks, who invest, and who recruit people again. I am witnessing the fact that this is actually happening at the moment. Businesses are structurally re-enhancing to create growth. What does politics do? I believe that the government, together with Parliament, can create the right climate. This requires lower costs, both tax and administrative. Maybe we can add a little bit more to that. This calls for a climate of legal certainty, which is why we are looking forward to reforming corporate taxation. But I believe that this government has proved to be on the right track on this point. It is also gratifying to note that in the meantime, as shown by the figures put forward by the National Bank, 25 000 self-employed entrepreneurs have been added, in two years' time, and that this trend is continuing. It is even more gratifying that many young people want to take the risk again to perform an independent job. This year, Belgium will end up in the fifteenth place on the Global Entrepreneurship Index, two places higher than last year. These are objective figures that show that the government is moving in the right direction. We note that entrepreneurial confidence is growing. I have seen in the field that it was slightly less in October and November, but December is more than positive. This morning we were able to hear the figures showing that purchasing power is also valid. Those numbers are impressive. Competition is also important. I passed the law on competitiveness with this in 1996. We have now succeeded in fully eliminating the labour costs handicap of our country, of our economy, of our businesses, of our neighbouring countries. It will now be the art of ensuring in the coming months and years that we continue this trend, so that we do not lose the advantage we have gained in the end. We must watch this very carefully. In other words, we are asking for a reform of the 1996 law to further refine and strengthen it. In this way, our companies can continue to compete, so that we have a further surplus on our trade balance. Colleagues, the government is not just focusing on entrepreneurship and job creation. The government not only reduces the burden for those who work, but also for those who work. There's been a lot of talk about the tax shift. Within a few years we will be able to calculate them in full. In any case, every employee can enjoy additional purchasing power at this time. Purchasing power will increase by 1.4 % this year. The lowest wages will increase by EUR 160 net by the end of this legislature. The main thing is that this increases purchasing power, attracting the economy and creating jobs. Prime Minister, there were three objectives. In the field of job creation, you have succeeded. The second objective was to reduce the tax burden and the public debt, and I believe that you are also on the right track in this area. For the first time, there are signs that in almost never known times, government seizures can fall below 50%. One would almost become romantic of finally diving below 50% again in this country. I think that is a very good thing. That brings me to the third objective, the budget. This was a difficult exercise, but we knew what we were getting into. The Di Rupo government started with a deficit of 4.2 % and had a deficit of 3.2 % two years later. We had a sharp drop in sight, but what happened happened happened. In committee, we discussed this in detail with the Minister for Finance. However, in view of what is feared in Germany after the terrorist attack, there is a growing awareness that all this will not be without consequences for revenue and for citizens' confidence. I think, in other words, that 2016 is not a brilliant year for the budget. There are many reasons for this. The most important thing is that we continue to work on structural reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of reference to our northern neighbours, which are supposedly doing very well with an economic growth rate of 3%. They also create a lot of jobs and reduce their public debt. However, I would like to point out that the Dutch economy is still not up to its 2008 level before the crisis. They've had a hard time. This allows them to catch up faster and achieve more results. I believe that the policy pursued by the previous government and this government, which opted for a moderate approach, has paid off. I'd say honor to whom credit belongs. Has the government not done anything to improve the budget? I believe that the nominal deficit of 3% is indeed high, but that under the bonnet the budget is gradually improving structurally and that the result of all the measures will be felt in the long term. The tax burden has fallen by 1.18 % of GDP. The government is the first in 15 years to reduce the expenditure ratio, i.e. expenditure is rising slower than economic growth, which means they are nominally under control. I believe that the structural fiscal efforts that we will and will have to make in 2017 in the euro area are one of the greatest efforts that a Member State will make. I don't think that's gonna be the end of it. Efforts will not be sufficient to achieve balance. I fear that the government will have to continue to work towards resolving the problems raised by the Court of Auditors, namely the better collection of revenue and the better estimates of revenue, so that we can finally get the air out of the budget when we submit and approve them. You will undoubtedly want to meet that challenge before 2017. You confirmed that in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of talk here about taxes. We have just heard the discussion with Mr Smaers and other fellow Members. Let us not forget that we are still living in one of the most heavily taxed countries in Europe, with a public debt that is still above 50%. As far as the burden on capital is concerned, according to the European Commission, we are in fifth place, and according to the OECD, we even score fourth place, figures that I am not very proud of. The fact that we have brought the withholding tax from 15% to 30% over five years is, of course, a huge effort, with the proceeds shifting from 3 billion to 5 billion in 2016. Should you doubt it, Mr Calvo, 85% of the shares and bonds are held by the 10% richest. They pay the withholding tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u24	Mr Van Mechelen, after what you have said and after what Mrs Smaers has said, you will understand that the opposition feels the urge to moderate a piece for the majority, which is difficult to reach on one wavelength. Just now, Mr Smaers was quite certain, certainly according to Christian Democrat standards: 2017 should be the year of added value tax and corporate tax reform. Now you say that power is already being taxed too much, a debate that we have had a number of times. Those figures are rebuttable, and you know that. But what does that even mean to you? At that point, it is also time for Open Vld to be clear. Does that mean that the added value tax is excluded for you, or on the contrary, do you say that 2017 is also the year for you, as for your coalition partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u25	You know that in another life, I have also been working on taxation. One thing I've learned, actually farm logic, is that higher taxes have never led to the growth of the economy and more jobs, usually even less economy and fewer jobs. In addition, there is what is called fiscal compliance in the jargon. We have proved that point with the gift rights in Flanders. We have reduced donation fees from 60 % or 70 % to 3 % to 7% on movable property, with the proceeds rising from 30 million euros to the current 230 million euros per year, just because taxes are correctly reported today through notarial deeds and the description. In other words, what we must avoid is that the added value tax becomes a minus value for everyone. We are happy to enter into the debate. We will be pleased to discuss the measures when they come to the table. However, the objective must be that we do not reduce the economy once again. We talk a lot about the fact that SMEs will not be covered. There is a study by UNIZO, which says that 638 Limburg SMEs will be affected by such an added value tax. It is too early to have the debate. I have heard the Prime Minister, who has committed himself to taking stock of this and doing study work on the measure. Then we will have a serious debate at the right time. Take a good look at the results of the fiscal compliance. Today, donation rights are being used as the prototypic example of breaking the Laffer curve in taxation, which states that higher taxes do not always lead to higher revenues. That is our position. That is the position that we will be taking at the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u26	Mr Van Mechelen, you agree with me that you see things quite differently from Mrs Smaers. You have to acknowledge that. You need a very long explanation. You cite a number of fiscal and economic theories.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u27	Mr Calvo, we have one thing in common. We've read the congress texts. I heard Mrs. Smaers talk about the dual income tax. We will work towards this tax in the years to come. We will take this evolution step by step. When we talk about sustainable and green energy, as you rightly point out, we will be happy to discuss with you and the other Members our efforts to introduce a mobility budget, which is also recommended by the IMF, in order to give an example. In other words, let's not look at all that classically, traditionally and leftly against the right. We are talking here about the question of what a fair tax is, where lower charges are higher, because there is a change of attitude. That is also the intention of the Minister of Finance with regard to corporate taxation. In particular, he wants to make them simpler and to reduce the towering rates of 34% again in order to increase revenue. However, this calls for a certain belief in the fact that fiscal compliance leads to more resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u28	For the record, I know what you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are trying to do, but you will not succeed in your intent. You must listen carefully to all sides of the story. If you have listened carefully, you know that I did not argue earlier for more taxes, but for different taxes. I think I have said five times that we, too, with CD&V, believe that we absolutely must continue to focus on tax reform and that our taxes are too high. That is why we have implemented the first tax shift with reductions in labour costs. We fully agree with that; we do not say completely different things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: the government, to its regret, does not opt for easy solutions, namely more revenue through more taxes. With a 70/30 effort, the government has used the right mix for me to structuralally reform the budget in 2017. It is also important that all ministers assume their responsibilities. Mrs Wilmès, I know from my own experience that the Minister for the Budget has to come here to explain and defend it, while it is ultimately the work of a full team. The measures must therefore be taken by the team in solidarity and in collegiality. I think, Prime Minister, that we can only continue to reform. There are also a number of reforms in pensions. This leads to socially sensitive debates. I'm a member of the defense committee myself. So I know what such a debate means. I think that the debate should simply be conducted on its merits and that no one escapes it. Furthermore, in social security, we must ensure that people can be accompanied back to work, provided of course that they are able and capable of doing so. In the health sector, we must tackle over-consumption. The overconsumption of antibiotics is a good example of things that can be addressed. There is also our labour market. This morning there were huge figures about the sales via bol.com of the last twenty-four hours. I think it is more necessary than ever for labour to be more flexible. At the beginning of next year, the reforms that my party has long called for will be on the table. These reforms have only one objective, in particular to create more jobs in our country and not just across the border.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u30	Mr Van Mechelen, I would like to repeat briefly what I said this morning. You refer again to the example of antibiotics. The savings made in public health have only served to close the gap in the budget. The savings they are trying to make on antibiotics are scandalous. It says that the patient should be responsive because he will have to pay twice as much or three times as much for his antibiotics, but that also applies to those who need antibiotics very much. In the end, nothing can be achieved by this. I am so tired of hearing that measures are being taken that do not affect the patient or solve a number of health problems. That's not right. We want to save EUR 900 million and then we have tried to find a few excuses for each of the amounts. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u31	I have to admit that I am glad to be back in the Chamber for 20 years, because I know the above figures once again. At the regional level one gets his dotations. I see in the budget that just as much as EUR 48 out of every EUR 100 goes to the Communities and the Regions today. Of every 100 euros, 19 euros are added to social security. Of every 100 euros, 11 euros go to deleveraging. Of every 100 euros, 22 euros remain to be spent by the federal departments. I therefore continue to find it incredibly mysterious how that reorganisation of Entity I plus II is a joint exercise that needs to be made, which is actually charged to the maximum of Entity I. In Entity I, however, there is not only the federal government, but also social security. The total revenue of the federal government amounts to EUR 115.9 billion, of which the departments ultimately spend EUR 22 billion, and the total social security revenue amounts to EUR 96 billion. If you think you can do the clean-up without efficiency exercises, without organising and obliging cooperation between hospitals, and without requiring specializations, then you are mistaken. If we want to get this budget in order, which is a task for all the parties in this hemisphere, by 2018/2019, then we can only have the debate about everything and everyone and without sacred houses. On the other hand, I would like to launch another appeal. I like Mr Vande Lanotte. We have often negotiated cooperation agreements between the federal government and the Länder in order to achieve the budgetary objectives. At present, it is simply no longer possible to negotiate and sign such cooperation agreements. I call on everyone to assume their responsibility at their level to work with Entity I and Entity II to bring about the reorganisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u32	Mr Van Mechelen, let me be clear that I have nothing against order. I have nothing against combating waste in health care. I have nothing against putting things in order and networking hospitals. On the contrary! It is just that we are currently looking for savings in health care in the wrong place and, above all, at the hood of the wrong people, namely those who are having a very difficult time in our society. The biggest savings have been made by these people. That's what I'm talking about here. I do not oppose the fact that something is being done against waste and that hospital networks are being encouraged. This was very clear in the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u33	In this respect, I do not feel obliged to disagree. In this respect, I have the greatest confidence in Dr. Maggie De Block's qualities as Minister, who is responsible for this matter. The only question is that we must dare to look at this file with open eyes. One is never going to be able to achieve that reorganisation in Entity I alone by looking at federal spending. It will have to be one big exercise to ensure that we meet the target.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u34	As I said earlier, I would very much like to reserve this discussion for the Health section. It would be nice if, during the general discussion, you did not always return to the same string of antibiotics. I will repeat myself. It amounts to 14 million, while in previous exercises the patient bill has been reduced by 75 million euros and this exercise represents a total savings on medicines and the pharmaceutical sector of 300 million euros. Count it out, spread over the Belgians: for these antibiotics, it is about one euro per year. Think for yourself how many times you need antibiotics every year. I hope that we will come back to this in the Health section. You referred to your statement in the Health Committee. I have it with me, you say there: 'It is true, that antibiotic resistance is a major problem and today's efforts are not enough. We do indeed need to consider a different kind of effort, and it is time for the punch line, and frankly I do not know which one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u35	Mr. Van Mechelen is not a member of the Social Affairs and Health Committee. I understand that he wants to stick to the big macroeconomic debate. It was also said that it was a general debate on the budget and the programme law and that, as has been said, it would be reflected in the details of the measures at a later stage. At the macroeconomic level, some still come to the need to save money in health care. You should know that when I am told that savings must be made in health care, I always say that this is obvious because if we follow the trend of spending and the need for investment in new medicines, in new technologies, it would be an explosion of costs that would not be controllable. We must always control the budget, admit certain investments, admit certain recognitions of technologies and medicines, on the one hand, and control expenditure, on the other. What is wrong and what you are accused of is to go much further than that and to really want to restrict the resources devoted to health care. But when you compare, for example, what is happening in our country and in the United States, at the macroeconomic level, in the United States, health care spending is about 17% of GDP and it is a very unfair system. We know that. Whether you are there, rich or poor, you have a completely different quality of care. In Belgium, all levels of power combined, it is about 10% of GDP and we have a relatively fair system. There are still pockets of difficulty, but we are trying to maintain the doctor's free choice and access for everyone to health care of the best quality possible. What you are accused of is not here and there to want to control the cost of health care, but to really restrict the means put in this widespread access to quality health care. It is in this sense that Mrs De Block's responsibility is pointed out, since we are slowly switching to another system which we do not call our wishes. At the macroeconomic level, indeed, it seems to us that you are turning us into a much more liberal regime that runs counter to a large quality system for the benefit of all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u36	Mr President, first of all, for the record, I did not bring up antibiotics again. Mr Van Mechelen did that. Secondly, I talked about populism this morning. One of the tools that people love to use is selective quoting. If you are honest, Mrs Van Camp, you know that this discussion involved much more. For the sake of completeness, it's the doctors who need to be responsive. That's what I said here this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u37	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that the government stands for a heavy year. It is also formulated by the European Commission and the Court of Auditors. It will be a titanic task to achieve the structural effort of 1.2 % in the end. We are talking about amounts of EUR 4 to 4.5 billion. Prime Minister, I have learned from one of your predecessors, and it has been said with us that optimism is a moral duty. The Open Vld Group gives you every confidence. We are 100% convinced that you will achieve this job. Good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u38	Mr Vande Lanotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u39	Mr President, Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the government has certainly broken a first record with this budget. Never before was the budget submitted in a normal parliamentary year later than it is now. This means that Parliament had to reset the budget to three weeks. My fellow Members have protested against this, but in fact I cannot fully follow them. It was not just three weeks, at the same time, it was clear from the outset, if the reports of the Court of Auditors and the European Commission were taken into account, that the 2017 budget is already obsolete. Today we are discussing a budget that we know will have to be completely reworked in March, not least because its basis, 2016, is gambled. The figures have already been mentioned. In two years' time, the government has achieved a structural improvement of 0.2 percent. Apart from the Leterme Government, which was faced with the banking crisis, there has been no government in the last twenty-five years which achieved an improvement of only 0.2 percent in its first two years. In this respect, the current government has scored the worst in the last twenty-five years. I hear here the attacks and the disappointing economic growth as an excuse. I'm sorry, but that really doesn't make any sense. Firstly, I can invoke an argument of authority, because the European Commission says that it is wrong. According to the European Commission, this government does not meet the requirements, even if the above elements are taken into account. Secondly, the structural balance takes into account, on the contrary, a reduction in economic growth. The very poor economic growth has also led to a spectacular fall in interest rates, which the government has also benefited from. More importantly, this is the first government with a negative structural balance. The structural balance will deteriorate if we subtract the interest rate increase. The increase in interest rates will result in 0.6%. Without that interest rate improvement, you have a reduction in structural balance by 0.4%. It would be a good thing for the government not to seek excuses, not to hide behind the attacks or other things, but simply to learn as a lesson that it did not manage the budget properly in 2016 and that it should do better in 2017. It would also be a good thing for the government if it clearly informed the population, rather than telling the population that it was not so bad in 2016. It wasn't easy, it was just not good. It is then replicated that jobs have been added. It is true that, through the fall in labour costs, competitiveness has been achieved. In itself, that's a good thing. Given the fall in labour costs, which makes us more competitive, we could expect the jobs to flow. Yet that is not the case. Several fellow Members have already quoted the figures in this respect, and I will not repeat them, but we score less well in terms of job creation than the neighbouring countries. The explanation given for this is that we started too late. However, if it were correct that this is a temporary reduction, we would not have seen in the European Commission's revision in autumn that the Commission is also predicting for 2017, 2018 and 2019 that our unemployment will fall slower than in other countries and that job growth will be slower than in other countries. I can accept your explanation that there have been a number of difficult years, but if you stay below the growth rate of the other countries for three, four or five years, then something is wrong. And I'll tell you what's wrong. You fundamentally underestimate the importance of domestic consumption. You underestimate domestic consumption as a growth factor. You are fully focused on competitiveness, which is one factor, but you neglect the fact that people cannot buy enough because inflation is high. They have insufficient purchasing power. In terms of economic growth, you will never score better than your fellow MEPs with competitiveness alone. It did not happen today; we will see it in 2018, you say. You promise, but according to the facts you score less today. Much has already been said about purchasing power. Well, I think it's good to take a look at that from the right figures. First of all, the National Bank says that the available income has increased by 2%. That is written in black and white, and we cannot discuss it. And that's right. The available income is the money one has to buy something. That's not the purchasing power, that's the disposable income.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u41	No, the available income per person has risen by 2%, not the real income that one spends. It's income after taxes. At the same time, there is a 2% increase in income and an inflation rate of 1.7 %. These are the figures of the National Bank for 2016. This means a small increase in purchasing power of 0.3%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u43	Mr Van Rompuy, you must ask for the floor before you start. It is useful if you ask for the floor first. You can have it, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u44	Mr Vande Lanotte, you want to make a scientific statement about the National Bank and the real disposable income of individuals. The real disposable income of individuals fell by 0.6% in 2013. That wasn't under this government. In 2015, it increased by 0,7 % and in 2016 by 1,8 %. In 2017, it will increase by 1.1 %, in 2018 by 1.7 %, and in 2019 by 1.9 %. Private consumption will have increased by 1.5% in 2016. So, what are you talking about? The real disposable income is the income after inflation, which is available to spend. Statistics show that private consumption increased by 1,5% in 2016. In the period you are talking about, namely 2013, real disposable income has decreased. When you were driving, real disposable income decreased by 0.6%. Now it has risen by almost 2% and you have come to say that the purchasing power of the population has fallen. Either I can't read statistics, or you're just standing here lying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u45	You can't even listen. I said that purchasing power increased by 0.3%. I didn't say she dropped. If you're listening, try to really listen. Why is that? By income per person that has risen by 2% and inflation by 1.7 %. This means that purchasing power overall increased by 0.3 % in 2016. You don't believe it? That's fine, but you're welcome to look at it. Where's the 0.3% increase? Because a number of people have found work: that is positive, there are fewer unemployed. Because you've effectively given the lowest incomes a little more, that's positive. At the same time, however, many others see a decline in purchasing power, not least among pensioners. I'll come back to that later. Now you're selling a big show about massive purchasing power. Purchasing power is increasing by 0.3 %. With a group of people it will be more, but with a large group it will be less. I have just heard Mrs Smaers say: 'We are very social, we have increased the wealth envelope.' But that is, of course, also in the purchasing power debate. Who has better purchasing power and who doesn't? Let us look at welfare adjustment, disability and so on. Under the Di Rupo government, to take that example, the index was allocated during the first two years, in the normal way. There was no decline in purchasing power through an index jump. There was then a wealth envelope that caused an increase of 0.9% in two years. What have you done in the first two years? You've made an index jump. That's 2 percent. Then there was a slightly larger welfare envelope, which is correct, of 1.2 %. The result is "0',8' %. Previously it was +0,9 %, now it's uh, uh, 8,8 %. This is just going to allow you to walk in through your next welfare envelope for the next two years, so you might be at 0. I think this is one of the best examples, in which, throughout this debate, pensioners who have not earned it must suffer a fall in purchasing power because wrong choices have been made. The decline in purchasing power is a fact. I'm picking up on what you just said. You have said very enlighteningly what you are doing: reducing the tax on income from labour, leaving it equal from wealth and increasing indirect taxation on consumption. You explained that very well a moment ago. That's exactly what you're doing. You have not mentioned a number of things, a little steeply, namely what happens to companies and to tax fraud. You asked for an alternative. You think we never say what the alternative is. I think the alternative lies in what is being proposed there. A first condition is to reduce your personal income tax, your tax on labour, but with a nuance, to the extent that you have the resources. Don't give away what you don't have yet, as is happening now. The result is that effective wells are made. Secondly, you can tackle indirect taxation, but make sure that it does not happen as antisocial as it is today, saying that people can choose for themselves. The people who have the least have the least choice. If you make gas and electricity more expensive, people have the choice to heat their homes or not. That's not a choice. Raising indirect taxes on basic goods is not a choice. It is the choice: can I do enough or can I not consume enough of it? Thirdly, if you want to reduce taxes on labour, you must do so, but make sure that taxes on capital are equal, on average, as on labour. It is possible to progressively tax labour and its ability not progressively, but with an average rate. Is there one more reason why taxes on labour should be higher than taxes on capital? Give me one good reason. There isn't one. So, if you want to fill wells, reduce taxes on labour and increase taxes on capital until they are on average at the same level. Fourthly, try to maintain and increase your corporate tax, which is now constantly allowing additional exceptions. Make them fairer and raise them. Fifthly, make sure that tax fraud is dealt with better, as has happened in the past. Then you will not, like now, have a budget that has not achieved anything in two years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u46	Mr Vande Lanotte, I have heard that this is your last speech in this House on the budget. You are giving great lessons now, but in 1999 the primary surplus of the Belgian budget was 6%. You then entered the Verhofstadt Government, which has reduced taxes massively. That is a good thing, because that was always a liberal demand. Then there was also the active welfare state of Vande Lanotte and Vandenbroucke, where social spending increased sharply. As a result, the primary surplus of 6% in 1999-2000 had been fully absorbed in 2007. We have recently abolished the Silver Fund. Why couldn't that ever be eaten? There was no primary surplus because everything was souped up. Mr Vande Lanotte, Belgium has entered the banking crisis and the financial crisis without reserves because the primary balance had been fully settled. Now you are here to argue for reductions in charges that should be financed. You have come here to bring forward a whole development of public spending. In fact, Mrs Onkelinx, these expenditures rose far too quickly in the health sector by more than 4% in real terms. Then we come to a situation such as this where we have to withdraw things, which we have to save in a number of sectors. With a budget of EUR 28 billion in health care, this growth rate cannot be used without commitment. Mr Vande Lanotte, you have come here in your last speech to give lessons on how public spending should be controlled and how to reduce taxes that have been financed. You have been on the board of this country for ten years, and you have done so in a way that has led us to enter the banking crisis without any reserve, with a primary balance built up in the years of the 1990s. With an exhausted primary balance, we have begun the banking crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u47	Can I answer first? Mr Van Rompuy, I was prepared because I knew you would ask. In fact, I should have said earlier in my speech that first and foremost I must explain that everything that has not been done in the last two years is the fault of the Socialists. I should have said that first. I didn't do that, and I apologize for that. I'll answer you. I was Minister from 1993 to 2007 and then President, but I'm counting on that as the same in terms of responsibility. In 1993, we had 133 % debt. In 2007, we had 83% of the debt. So that's minus 50 %. If we look at all the years in which CD&V has been in the government since 1980 and all the years in which the sp.a has been in the government, then the difference is very large. We reduced the deficit by 50 % after you added 50 % in the years 1908-80. That is the truth that is historically correct and nothing else. As far as expenditure is concerned, I would like to show the figures for 2007. You say that it is easy for us to talk about expenditure and revenue. In 2007, public expenditure amounted to 48%. Do you hear that, fellow Members of the N-VA, you who are always talking about below 50%? In 2007, public expenditure was 48 % and revenue was 48 %. If one delivers a budget with 50% reduction in debt, with income and expenditure in balance, 48% in and out, then one has a budget that is ready for the future. You can never blame us for not doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u48	Mr Vande Lanotte, I waited for a moment, because I listened with increasing amazement as I heard you speak. My father once gave me two good advices for life. He said: "Son, never become a pastor and never become a politician." The second piece of advice I have come to light, precisely because of what has happened under the purple rule, namely that on all sides a huge primary balance is missing. Mr Vande Lanotte, do you remember this book? The Silver Paper! A big piggy bank for pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u49	Ha, I prepared that, too. That's it! Nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u50	Everything got fresh! You say you reduced government debt. Yeah, that's right. You sold and leased buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u51	No, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u52	You took over the Belgacom pension fund to close the gap. You did a great job, Mr Vande Lanotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u53	No, nothing like that, 2007 was completely balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u54	It wouldn't cost the taxpayer a franc? Well, Mr Vande Lanotte, if we do not carry out a pension reform now, we will no longer have a pension!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u55	Very interesting. About the Silver Fund, very good. I'm very happy you're quoting the Silver Fund. It is normal that you abolished the Silver Fund. That's perfectly normal. Why? The Silver Fund was set up to increase pensions if a government had surpluses and debt had fallen sufficiently. You are no longer aiming for surpluses. You don't have a government that lowers the debt. The Silver Fund was set up for a situation where the debt fell and pensions increased. You are in a situation where debt increases and pensions fall. That's why the Silver Fund had to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u56	If I still understand correctly in time, the Silver Fund had to be fed with primary surpluses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u57	With surpluses, not with primary surpluses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u58	With primary surpluses, because your interest charges had to be paid. These primary surpluses had to be paid into a fund, which allowed pensions to be paid in the long term, and a number of obligations to be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u59	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u60	But you didn't have them anymore. These primary surpluses have been reduced to zero over five years. I have here the statistics of André Decoster who has put all this on slides since 1980. I want to give them to you. Do you deny that you have reduced the primary balance, the balance without interest charges, expenditure versus revenue, which is currently at zero, even slightly negative in 2016,................................................................................................................................................... As a result, the Silver Fund could not be fed. You just didn't save up. You spent it. That is the reason, as Mr Klaps says, but you deny it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u61	Mr van de Velde, I assume you wish to intervene on the same subject. Otherwise, it's impossible to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u62	It is in the same vein, Mr President. I find it almost touching, Mr Vande Lanotte, how you defend the period from 2000 to 2007.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u63	The period from 1993 to 2007. At that time there was a reduction of 50% and no doubling, as now in Flanders at four years time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u64	I respect that. When one looks at the trajectory, one finds that there was an incredibly large amount of one-off income, part of the patrimony was thrown away, and that happened in a period of effortless growth, let us not forget that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u65	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u66	Absolutely. I was one of those who performed their first job between 1990 and 2000. We were picked from the school banks, so to speak. That is not the point, however. Mr Vande Lanotte, you said that the debt was being paid to the people. You will also have to look at a number of matters in the short term. Over the period from 2011 to 2013, debt increased despite the fact that GDP grew by around 1% over three years in a row, which generated additional tax revenues. However, expenditure grew even more, otherwise the debt would not have grown. At the same time, there was the greatest growth of poverty during that period. Mr Van Hees said it here. There was a drop in income. Your colleague, Mr Temmerman, said just now that the median in 2015 was the sign that in 2013 income had actually fallen to the lowest level ever, because of that tax burden. That makes sense, too. There was a very negative trade balance. The EU then obliged you manu militari to carry out the necessary reforms, which you had not carried out for two decades because you spent the money. You thought everything would be okay with some extra taxes. But that didn't happen. The European Commission has already made several presentations in this Chamber on the macroeconomic situation. We have now created a situation with more jobs, with less unemployment, with a trade balance that is effectively positive again and with prospects that are positive, thanks to the reforms. For the first time, the EU has said that we are among the good students at macroeconomic level, and that, Mr Vande Lanotte, despite the fact that we have started with an incredibly heavy burden. That burden was your inheritance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u67	I knew you'd say that. First of all, I go into the myth of the years 1993 to 2007. We would have had fantastic years back then, including 2000. Well, I believe that the growth rate in 2001 was 0.9 percent. That's less than it is now. Growth in 2002 was 1.1 %. That too is less than it is now. You will have to look again at your economic history. There is now a growth of 1.2 % and there is nothing you can do. To say that we lived in economically easy times therefore requires some nuance. Secondly, I repeat the following figure. You're talking about potting. In 2007 we issued 48 % of GDP. That's 2.5 % less than you're doing right now. Of course the years 2012 and 2013 were bad, but not only with us. Yes, our purchasing power has fallen. Yes, we have had problems, but we were still doing better than the other countries of Europe that had the same problems due to the debt crisis. In these difficult circumstances, our structural deficit has been reduced by 1.2 % during the first two years. In the case of this government, that is only 0.2 %. That means that you are not ready to do what needs to be done in the next few years in terms of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u68	I would like to confirm Mr Vande Lanotte's figures. In 2012, the euro area is at -0.9% growth and in Belgium we are at 0.2% growth. In 2013, the euro area is at -0.3% growth and in Belgium we are at 0%. This means that we are doing better than the euro area, while you, today, are growing below the euro area average. Nevertheless, we managed to keep the budget track, contrary to what you're saying, Mr Van de Velde.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u69	I do not want to polemicize, Mr Borsus, but we talked about social dumping this morning. I would like to talk about this from a personal point of view, because in the last few months of the previous government I have dealt with it a little bit. I'd like to appeal to the majority. I would like to make an absolutely appeal, because in Great Britain, as we all know, the outcome of the vote on the Brexit..... has shown that the uncontrolled working of people in one's own system, but with wages and allowances from another country, the pro-European vote, which was already weak, has completely reduced. Social dumping is a cancer in our own system, but also in our European system. You have taken action against this. In itself, I find those who think that good and people from the construction sector can help, but we are really leaving something behind. The Chamber passed an anti-abuse law before the elections. This anti-abuse law allows us to apply our own social security rules to people who work here and who we believe are not well and who are therefore not properly registered in their own country. That law allows that. The European Commission is indeed not happy with this and it is challenging it, but that does not mean that the anti-abuse law no longer exists. Apply it, for God's sake! Why don't we? Under the previous government, we have prepared this arrangement. The law has been passed in the last few months. We started it and the services wanted to apply it, but because there is a procedure at European level, we are waiting. However, Europe has not requested the suspension. So there's an instrument, there's a law. Use that anti-abuse law. Do it reasonably, not in the wild, but make sure that people who benefit from the system here are dealt with. It is not the poor workers who benefit from it, but the couple bosses, the people who sit in between. We owe it to everyone in our country. I decide. I had a lot to say, but I have to respect the time. It is sometimes easy to read what others write about the budget. You already know about Mr Peersman of Ghent, of course, that he is a professor at the best university in our country, but that aside. You have heard Mr Piedboeuf that all professors are always intellectually honest. That was very kind of him. Now, what does Professor Peersman write? He wasn't exactly a big fan of the Di Rupo government. So he's a pretty unsuspecting source. I quote: 'The result of this miserable budgetary policy is that today we are paddling in the tail of the European platoon in terms of growth and budget results. The government urgently needs to change its shoulder and fundamentally review the budgetary process in order to keep pace with neighbouring countries. But in practice, the largest government party launches a communication campaign to highlight the socio-economic achievements of the government with pimped-out graphs. The government is doing well! Indeed, according to Comical Ali, there were no Americans in Baghdad either."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you that Mr Van Rompuy has referred to the fact that it might well be the last speech by Mr Vande Lanotte, who has informed me by letter that he will leave the Chamber on 10 January 2017. History will, of course, judge Mr Vande Lanotte. However, it is certain that he has played a role in history. I thank him for that. (Standing ovation)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u71	Mr President, I shall begin by welcoming Mr Vande Lanotte. We may or may not have agreed with it, but it will have marked the history of this Parliament. He was Minister of Budget. We may not share some of his options as such, but we must recognize that he has done his job. This allows me to link up and approach the introduction of my intervention. There are people in this world who deny climate change. And there are, in this government, in the majority, far too many people who deny the budgetary problem we are facing. The budgetary problem is linked, Minister of Finance, to decisions that have been taken and that are not bearing the announced results. It is probably easier to write picrate editorials to denounce poorly balanced budgets than to carry measures that can have a positive effect or write laws. We can mention the Cayman tax, the Diamant tax, the speculation tax, the sicafi, the tax regularization, all of which are tax measures whose announced revenues do not bear fruit and which lead us to be confronted, today, with difficulties. Mrs Wilmès, we have just mentioned Mr Vande Lanotte. I must tell you that I expect the Minister of Budget to ensure that all of his colleagues, beginning with the Minister of Finance, do their job, and that they honour their commitments. It is not enough to get out of a conclave with, a little magically, an equation that seems fair, balanced between revenue and expenditure and not to do the work, then, for, in particular, revenue to come back or for certain savings of good use to be realized. Yet this is the problem of this government. When Mr. Van Rompuy, chairman of the Committee on Finance, is firing with us the alarm bell, he gets hit on his fingers. There is no question. The same applies to all the bodies which are called upon to advise us, such as the Court of Auditors, the European Commission, the Plan Bureau, the Monitoring Committee and the Council of State, which sometimes wonder whether measures are justified. In some cases, judges are even called into question by this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u72	Everyone is wrong, except you, who hold the truth. When you face a difficulty, you say: "We will do even more of the same thing. We're going to do even more of what doesn't work." To do this is to lead us into the wall. This is further exacerbating our budgetary problems. This will to deny the budgetary problem is the main problem facing this government. Repeat with me: "Yes, we have a budgetary problem; yes, it is linked to revenues that do not return, to the work of the Minister of Finance, and to the work of the whole government." You deny it so much that we might think that this situation is right for you. Indeed, it arranges those who want the end of this country. This helps those who want to challenge social security solidarity mechanisms. This helps those who do not think that the state, beyond regulating, must be able to support the economy of the future. Recognizing the problem is the first step in moving towards solutions. The solutions are a more effective fight against tax evasion, it is a better contribution of capital income in tax matters. Our tax system is both unfair and inefficient. With equal tax revenues, we can greatly improve our tax system so that those who work and undertake here in Belgium – I don't think of the multinationals with whom you multiply gifts – can operate more efficiently, create the activity of the future and of employment. Stop with these gifts that are too expensive, with all these tax niches! That said, we are interested in a tax reform of corporate tax that is fair, and that is funded better than the tax shift! Scalded cat fears cold water. But we are open to discussion, in the same way as when we heard this discussion, for which you are now responsible, Prime Minister. I'm sorry I couldn't hear you in the Finance Committee. The debate was coupled with a reflection on the taxation of capital gains, or any form of contribution of capital income, and an ability to mobilize savings for the future economy. What about our economic system, which continues to cough? I prefer the term "new" to the slogan of a communication campaign, referring to "the 100,000 jobs created". Because believing that it is your action that would have created these jobs would deny the action of other levels of power, including regional power, and the action of all those who undertake on the ground. These 100 000 new jobs are not so extraordinary! It's no more or less than what's been going on for several years. This is the average of new jobs created, even during current business. This is anything but spectacular; it is almost normal and mechanical as the working population increases. Besides, the number of net jobs created is not a good reference. It is one, of course, but the one that counts, Prime Minister, is the employment rate, it is the number of workers in relation to the total number of workers. If we take the statistics since 2010, compared to the European targets of 73.2%, this employment rate is stagnating. We've even retreated. It was 67.6% in 2010; today it is 67.2%. The loss is 0.4 per cent. We are not doing enough to create jobs. The cost per job created can also be questioned. Through the tax shift and in a way insufficiently targeted towards low wages – we had tabled an amendment on this – you have mobilised enormous resources. If we report them to the number of new jobs, we come up with huge amounts of money, more than the minimum €67 000 per job created. We know many employers in the private sector, whether it is a merchant or not, who could do much more with such money. Finally, there is no question here of the quality of the job created. Will this job enable those who benefit from an employment contract to earn a decent living, to work at a simply sustainable rate, which will not increase the number of burn-outs a little later and, therefore, the cost of social security? Could it possibly allow them to invest in Belgium as a consumer? If we look at the statistics a little finer, we find that the employment created consists essentially of acting. In the interim, the number of one-day contracts is only increasing; it is forced part-time, it is flexi-jobs that do not lead to the payment of social security contributions. The number of temporary workers increased by 40,000 between 2012 and 2015, from 350,000 to 390,000. Temporary employment may be useful, but when, as a worker, temporary contracts are forced to multiply, a mortgage cannot be contracted from his bank. You are strengthening this phenomenon of poor workers, people who work but cannot settle in life. What is the quality of jobs? Do they emancipate? Do they make them sick? Do they make it possible to settle in and invest in life? That is the difficulty! Our economic system is coughing; it does not work. Yet there are solutions. I appreciate when the chairman of the Finance Committee asks us for solutions. Solutions have already been put forward: to fight more and better against social dumping, Minister Borsus; to make public aid conditional on a commitment to create and maintain employment by companies which sometimes enjoy very generous advantages; to focus on reductions in contributions, preferably for low wages where the multiplier effect is greater; to reduce, on a voluntary basis, working time where possible; to allow older workers to lift their foot and be replaced by young workers - as foreseen in the Tandem Plan -; to focus on the economy of the future by choosing energy efficiency, Mr Borsus. In this context, I have already told you that the construction sector can and should participate in this challenge rather than spend hundreds or even billions of euros each year to buy gas, oil or uranium from Russia, Saudi Arabia or other countries benefiting from these carbon resources. Let us instead invest this money in our economy, in energy efficiency and in renewable energies, by developing a real project. I would now like to address the issue of the socio-economic project of this Government. Making savings in social security, denying the consequences on the people concerned and on the poverty rate, on the future costs of these economies, mainly for the most vulnerable people - such as young people returning to the labour market or workers over the age of 50 who have lost their jobs, women and less skilled workers - creates problems for the future. To hope that the economic system is regulated by the granting of non-conditional benefits to employers is to be wrong! Where does your investment pact stand, Prime Minister? And if you can set it up, what we want and why we will be partners, what are the qualitative objectives? It has been seen with the policy of the European Central Bank, quantitative easing, that inundating liquidity the financial markets is not enough. We need a readable project that mobilizes, that prepares tomorrow. Rather than prolonging nuclear power plants and thus saturating the energy market, let us aim for this energy autonomy. These are additional jobs, less spending, a preserved environment and the most obvious illustration. I attended the Infrastructure Committee last week with my excellent colleague, Marcel Cheron. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u73	I have a lot of excellent colleagues here, but I wanted to quote Mr Cheron, who, in excellence, is hard to match. I attended an Infrastructure Committee where the Minister of Mobility was attacked with questions by colleagues from all parties and regions in relation to the difficulties that our public railway company is facing today. The effects of austerity measures, the billion savings decided under the previous government and the two billion savings now decided, are felt to the point that even the minister realizes this and, rather than negotiating additional resources within the government, he writes to Infrabel, saying: "Do something. I receive many complaints." This is the zero level of the political reaction. So, to get a positive note in this speech, there is an interesting element in what is on the government's agenda. It is indeed this mobility budget. The communication on the subject was successful by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It's a little strange, but good! There is now a need to ensure that concrete effects are measured at some point in time. We have long advocated, Ecolo-Groen Group, for a challenge to subsidies in billions of euros for company cars, for an alternative to this system in the form of a mobility budget that allows workers to move through other modes of transport when it is compatible with their professional function. There's something like that in your government agreement. But when we ask the Minister of Finance about the real intentions, about the timetable, about how to remove the constraints you face, in particular the fact that you have to offer the same kind of benefits to all workers, whether or not they have a company car, about the consequences on the financing of social security, we do not find an answer. We will therefore be extremely curious about this. I would like to encourage you to succeed in this endeavour economically. However, I would remind you of the FEB's assessment of the cost of traffic jams, the congestion in Brussels and the cost of public health. Today, Brussels is saturated with fine particles in the air, a pollution that reaches truly worrying heights. You are facing an extraordinary challenge and we encourage you to provide concrete answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u74	Mr Gilkinet, I apologize for this interruption. I can't help it. On the subject of company cars to say no more, it is fun to see that the programme law does not say anything about the mobility budget, except a small sentence that dares to say that there is a first step for mobility but, by reading well, it is only about taxes on company cars and, consequently, an increase in the cost of labour. In this respect, it seems to me that turning a mobility budget into taxes on company cars, you have not forgotten that! Combining this with the drastic cuts in Infrabel's and SNCB's investment plans and the total lack of alternatives, this obviously does a lot for workers who need their cars today to get to work and who have no alternative to one-off mobility. The trains are here, but not on time!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u75	You're right. At present, the Mobility budget looks like a tax budget! This reminds us of the tax shift when one claims to want to cut taxes to better increase them! Clearly, the government is very strong in advertising: mystifying and concealing its true policy, namely a policy of austerity and taxation of households.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u76	Colleagues, thank you for your clarification. I conclude before giving the floor to my excellent colleague and group leader, Kristof Calvo. First of all, I call on the government to get out of the budget denial - the first step towards a solution - to stop hitting the most fragile by continuing the dismantling of social security, to ensure that our economy stops coughing around a project to redeploy our economy and an investment plan that we look forward to and which must put the issue of energy autonomy at the centre of the game; it will create jobs and improve our trade balance towards often infrequent countries, as well as the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u77	Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u78	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u79	Whatever you say! Then it's Mr. Dispa's turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u80	Mr President, first of all allow the humble parliamentarian that I am – indeed, young parliamentarians, not so young in the absolute, but rather inexperienced in this House; thank you for reminding me, Madam Group Leader – to send Mr Vande Lanotte a message of respect. You have provoked a debate about which I could not take sides, since you went back to the 1990s, but I can say, in any case, that your journey invites respect and admiration. So I can only convey to you a message of recognition and good continuation in your personal trajectory. I would also like to address a few kind words to the Minister of Budget or the Minister of Finance, but I must admit that I miss the pretext. However, I assure you, minister, that I would have liked to offer you a few flowers, not only out of courtesy, out of esteem or out of affection; but if you had been able to convince us of the results achieved in implementing the budget path, I would have been the first to congratulate myself, to offer you some flowers and, in the meantime, to offer pralines or chocolates to the Minister of Finance, since you are a tandem in the management of the state budget. That is, in any case, what I said two years ago when your predecessor, Hervé Jamar, announced on behalf of the government that his intention was clearly to achieve fiscal balance in 2018 and to reduce the debt ratio. At the time, like many members of the opposition, I had expressed doubts about the pace of consolidation and the method chosen, but I had in any case agreed with the objectives by considering that the return to budgetary balance is a perfectly legitimate and necessary objective, since it is the only way not to postpone indefinitely the burden of the deficit on future generations. I told him that I would be the first to congratulate him if he did. Madam Minister for the Budget, if you could tell us that you had, of course, taken some difficult steps – an index jump, an increase in VAT and excise duties – that could have harmed the population, but that you had achieved positive results two years later and that those efforts called for from our fellow citizens were bearing fruit; if you could tell us that your measures had certainly generated a lot of opposition in parliament and in the trade union ranks, as well as a lot of reservations in opinion bodies such as the Court of Auditors or the European Commission, but that in the end, or at least at the mid-point, the figures were right; in short, if you had been able to achieve the objectives announced by the government in 2014, I would have been the first to congratulate you, but we are far from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u81	Unless I am mistaken, in 2014, the government announced a structural deficit for 2016 of 0.6% of GDP, we are at 2.4%. It's four times worse! Your predecessor announced a financing balance of 1.3% of GDP in 2013, which is 2.96%. Fortunately, there are the cents of per cent in order not to reach the fateful 3% bar, which the Minister of Finance said two years ago that it was necessary at all costs to move away from it in order to be able to return to a path of consolidation of public finances. It is therefore not unpleasant for the minister or the majority to recall that we are failing on the basis of the 2007 figures. The budgetary discussions give rise to discussions on the assumptions adopted for the future financial year. A budget includes a share of forecasts, as there are elements of uncertainty. But the final figures are not misleading. They are indisputable and, from this point of view, we are in a situation of failure in 2016. I was able to see that in today's debate, the majority is using various schemes to try to cover up this failure. The Minister of Finance had decided, in his 2017 Policy Note, not to discuss it at all. In his note, a chapter was entitled "Sound finances" and he did not raise the issue of deficit. Tax pressure, the public expenditure rate, but not a word about the deficit were mentioned, as if the consolidation of public finances was not really a function of this balance of revenue and expenditure. Finally, the Minister of Finance spoke about it in committee, but by euphemism, saying that he could not deny that the clean-up was less rapid than he would have wanted. That's the least we can say! In this case, in 2016, the situation deteriorated in structural terms compared to 2015 and over the first two years as a whole, it is an over-the-counter situation that needs to be seen, not an advance towards the target set. Others have referred, a little to justify this failure, to factors of explanation which cannot be denied in the absolute but which, objectively, are not sufficient to account for the impasse in which you are. We talked about Brexit. Terrorism has been mentioned. We talked about asylum, migration. Did you really think, two years ago, that the outside world would be a sea of oil, that there would be no difficulty, that everything would go for the best? Of course not! The security problems, the problems of dissension within the European Union, all this was already part of reality, not with the dramatic intensity that we were able to experience, of course, but indisputably, external factors, by definition, weigh on a budgetary path. Earlier, we were even told about the factor that will probably be mentioned next year when we have to see that the 2017 result is not up to what was expected. It is Donald Trump's election that will ultimately be a new responsible for this failure. In this morning's discussion, I also noted that some were able to slip from one goal to another. The objective of budgetary balance does not seem to be the highest priority. It is ultimately the objective of reducing the tax burden that seems to be the omega of your policy. This is a form of inconsistency with what has been announced and also an internal inconsistency within the government, since at some point it will be necessary to choose between responsibility with the desire to restore fiscal balance or fiscal electorism to tell voters, when the time comes, that this majority, failing to restore balance, will at least have been able to reduce tax revenues. So that's a record of failure. The opposition is not the only one who sets it up. Indeed, a few weeks ago, Bart De Wever himself, who is not everyone in the majority, since he is invited to summit meetings within the government itself, had also made a severe budgetary observation, stating that it was the government's black spot. I think we can't make him wrong. In the future, beyond the poor performance of 2016, can public finance developments be considered with more optimism? Frankly, I'd like to believe it. I aspire to this, but it is a matter of serious doubt when all the speakers who have come to speak in the Finance Committee, including the Court of Auditors or the European Commission, have been heard. For 2017, the effort you want to make is an effort, in structural terms, of 1.3% of GDP. The Court of Auditors stressed how unprecedented this was. That is the least we can say since the best your government has done is an improvement in 2015 of 0.2% of GDP. To take better years, it is necessary to go back to the previous government: in 2012, the structural effort achieved was 0.6%; in 2013, 0.7%. To think that we can achieve an improvement of 1.3%, we really need liberal optimism in the body. In any case, the Court of Auditors points out that beyond the 2017 financial year, in order to achieve the budgetary balance to which the government has committed itself, an additional effort of $4 billion will have to be made for entity 1 in 2018 and almost $5 billion in 2019. These are figures that weigh heavily on the efforts you are making for 2016 and suggest that this goal is, in fact, out of reach. This is also the opinion of the European Commission as it has also come to share with us its analysis, with a speech much more severe than in previous years by presenting us with a perspective of evolution for 2017-2018 much more pessimistic than that of the government. In terms of nominal deficit, the Commission forecasts a deficit of 2.3% in 2017 - not 1.7% - and then a worsening of the 2018 deficit of 2.4%. In structural terms, the outlook is also worrying: only 2% in 2017 and 2.2% - hence a further deterioration - in 2018. As usual, one can have a methodological debate on the assumptions underlying the different models (those of the Commission or those of the government). Minister of the Budget, you regularly take care to recall these differences. That's right. But on arrival, it must be noted that the Commission's forecasts are always the closest to reality, much more than those of the government. We can therefore give credit to the Commission's message when it highlights the risk of non-compliance with the budget, which is likely to lead to the need for further action at the beginning of next year. That's a disturbing message. I do not emphasize it for pleasure, but I think we all need to be aware of it, because the black bread is not behind us. Even harder efforts are expected in the coming exercise and those that will follow. As far as the 2017 budget is concerned, I would like to say on behalf of the cdH Group that it seems to us both questionable in its choices and doubtful in its credibility. I shall take only a few examples, which have perhaps already been mentioned in this House. Social security and the health sector in particular, that's where you decided to wear iron. Thirty percent of the effort is focused on the health sector, with obvious impacts on the patient and the medical community, in terms of both the cost of drugs and the indexation of the maximum to be billed. We cannot make 900 million savings without affecting the medical world as a whole, and in particular patients. So on arrival, this health care budget appears to be the adjustment variable for your budget. That's where you carried the iron to achieve your goal. It's not a public health choice. Your efforts will not benefit public health policies. They're only going to benefit from trying to bail out the budget. The second example is the Justice budget. Even though the situation is less serious than last year, it remains true that the 2017 Justice budget remains lower than it was in 2014 (80 million euros difference compared to the 2014 budget). It is difficult to consider that there is a willingness to reinvest in the world of justice. But it is true that you have spoken to each other, which does not indicate a true will to work in confidence, but rather a will to denigrate. Finally, the budgetary choices made show some consistency. The third example that leads me to believe that this government's choices are really questionable is the transportation sector. Here too, the dark cuts are not corrected. For commuters, it is a real problem to be able to trust rail services. This is true in the transport sector and more generally, it is true in all sectors that require investment. Prime Minister, you announced to us a mobilising investment plan that could unite the different levels of power. Where are we? I didn't see it in the 2017 budget, but you can correct me. I ask no better than to see, at last, the first tangible budgetary signs of this willingness to reinvest in the sectors that need it. The 2017 budget seems questionable in his choices. Its credibility is also doubtful. We find it hard to believe, and we do not dislike the Minister of Finance, because there is no doubt that there is a problem with revenue. Together with the Court of Auditors, we have again been able to detail all the items which, taken in isolation, may not be verified. The Court of Auditors has pointed out that in terms of household prepayments, the increase to 30% would not produce – or risk not producing, because I will remain cautious – the expected returns. Experience has shown that the previous increase did not generate an increase, but, on the contrary, a decrease in revenue due to behavioural changes. In fact, in the Finance Committee, Mr. Minister, you did not deny this situation. We can talk about the fight against tax fraud; the Court of Auditors does not consider it to be supported by sufficiently concrete measures. One can speak of the transparency tax, of the regularisation of taxes: so many items whose revenue is not guaranteed, far from it. We could also talk about the health tax. At the end of our work, we had difficulty understanding the government's position. On the one hand, we were told that the government was giving up this health tax; on the other hand, the Budget Minister was telling us that the revenue must be maintained. What exactly is the situation? It is never just a few tens of millions, but in both budgetary and public health terms it is not entirely insignificant. Thus, the revenue items alone are not reassuring. And, overall, the Court of Auditors has highlighted the recurring gap that can be observed, from year to year, between forecasts and achievements, which it estimates at more than EUR 2 billion each year. Aware of this structural difficulty, the government eventually decided to set up a working group on the reliability of tax revenues, which leads me to deny what was said this morning that there would be no revenue problems in this budget. There is indeed a real problem. The evidence is that the government wants to understand why there is a recurring gap between forecasts and accomplishments. Objectively, this is, in my view, a problem that must be of concern to all of us. Indeed, this problem is getting worse year after year. Ex ante revenue forecasts are unreliable. But by reading the Court of Auditors' reports, we can see that, ex post, it is very difficult to verify the announced performance. And since the performance is mechanically reported from year to year, we end up flying in the fog without any assurance as to the reliability of the figures for budgetary revenues. That is the first reason why the budget appears to be uncredible. There is another more political one. But I hope to be denied this in the coming weeks or months. However, your majority, Prime Minister, seems to me to be extraordinarily divided. Listening to each other's interventions earlier, it was felt that there was a fluctuating focus on the objectives pursued. Is there always a question of restoring the balance of the budget, or is it rather a question of reducing the tax burden, whatever the effect on the balance of public finances and the balance of public finances? In my view, there are somewhat different approaches from one group to another. Is the question of revenue problematic or not? For some groups, including the majority, yes. For others, no, and we can be reassured. What is the status of the much-needed corporate tax reform? We have not had the opportunity to debate this issue in the Finance Committee since even the opinion delivered by the Higher Finance Council could not be passed on to us. On the subject, it's a bit motus and sewn mouth! What is the status of corporate tax reform? What is the status of the capital gains tax project? You're the one who took over, Prime Minister. I hope that, when the time comes, you will tell us more. But for the moment, at least, we don't see anything coming. There is nothing in the budget about these issues, or about the tax on financial transactions that was discussed in this House a few days ago. There is a strong tension within your majority, which does not strengthen the credibility of this budget. Again this morning, Ms. Smaers announced a third tax shift, without any real knowledge of whether it was a CD&V claim or an announcement linking the majority at a certain point in time. In any case, I understand that you are holding on to it for 2017 and that you have a rather innovative view of the taxation of labour and capital income. We are asking only to believe it, but I am not sure that the majority is unanimous, despite the messages of collegiality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u82	Mr President, Mr Dispa is making us here, a little at the Prévert, a very cruel inventory of the promises made. He mentioned an element that has gone unnoticed since it was announced: the investment pact. The Prime Minister has made a strong commitment to this investment pact. I read this morning that the Walloon Minister-President - who is a member of the same majority as you - complained that the subject had only been dealt with once in a consultation committee. I do not know who was there - and I am no longer trying to find out who is present at the meetings - but since then, Mr Magnette, Walloon Minister-President, has told us that there is no follow-up and that there is nothing new, which is quite challenging. I would remind you that the Prime Minister has made a strong commitment in three areas: digital, infrastructure - in particular mobility - and excellence and research. This is a very important issue and I understand that they do not appear directly in the budget, it is even quite normal. However, we are taking part in a budgetary debate which will involve the future of important sectors and I think that Mr Dispa was right to insist on this pact, which is the great absence of the budgetary discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u83	Mr President, of course I intended to address the subject in my reply earlier, but I do not resist the immediate pleasure of reacting to the friendly, tender and gentle inquiry addressed to me by Marcel Cheron. I will bring some elements and put the points on the i on this. The federal government is determined to make this investment compact a reality that we care about. Indeed, that is correct: we have validated three areas in the consultation committee that the federal government and the federated entities agree on. This is the digital agenda, mobility and energy transition. In fact, there is a certain divergence of views between some federated entities. Some felt that some topics should be added, while others felt that these three themes were the only ones on which cooperation was needed and useful. This debate should continue in the consultation committee. Secondly, I have asked, for several weeks already, that the project inventory process be started in federal departments. These are projects already on track and new projects that could be included in this list, through an investment pact. At the beginning of 2017, I hope to have more information on the financial envelopes that would be useful and necessary to continue to advance in the search for project selection mechanisms. It is necessary to ensure that the projects selected are truly productive, create value and growth, and are positive for the future of the country. Finally, a supplementary point: I confirm that I hope that Parliament will be involved in this process, which I hope will mobilise, beyond the majority, the opposition. I hope that at the Conference of Presidents we will be able to discuss the modalities of an association with Parliament. I come to the European level. We know that one of the important challenges is to move the debate forward at European level. On numerous occasions, my advisers and my cabinet have held technical meetings with representatives of the European Commission on this subject. I myself have had many political contacts on the subject. Finally, I am continuing wide-ranging consultations, including, and important, among non-political actors as well as economic and academic actors. I want to look at how to mobilize academic, academic and social forces to support this project that I care about. The points are put on the i. I persist and sign. You will see that we will continue to make progress and, I hope, achieve concrete results in the coming weeks and months on this important issue for the country's future. Moreover, in the context of the budgetary debate, in our contacts with the European Commission, we have already presented the main reasoning on this investment pact, in order to take this will into account as part of the government's action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u84	Mr President, I almost applauded the Prime Minister. Understand my emotion! I'm delighted to hear him express himself in this way. However, there are two problems at European level. You are right to point out that Europe probably has an interest in following this path and that it is even one of the key challenges of its future. In this case, Belgium plays its part. The projects are lacking in Europe. I am thinking of the energy transition, the future of digital technology and mobility, because it is not just the FEB. But the first problem is that the European Commission accepts what we are going to submit to it in terms of ESA 95 and other enormities, which prevent governments from taking countercyclical initiatives and decisions, as they say in economic language. We see this as regards what Mr Bellot calls the "virtuous billion" for rail and for projects that Infrabel could undertake tomorrow. I can only commit you to continue with the federated entities – and I come back to Mr Dispa. If, in Namur, it is considered to be blocked, I think it is time to relaunch this subject with the entities that make up this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u85	As far as I'm concerned, I'm not the spokesman for the Walloon government minister-president. All I can say, Prime Minister, is that the CDH can join you on the investment plan, at least with regard to the objectives. We have said on several occasions that they meet a real need. In this regard, you can count on our support. However, I would like to point out that, in the inventory work that is under way within federal departments, it is necessary not only to look for projects that are on the track, to use your formula, but also those that are not. On the part of SNCB and Infrabel, many needs are indeed proven. I am thinking in particular of the RER. In this regard, genuine refinancing is essential. The question of budgetary means will then remain. We are not in the best position to ask the European Commission to show indulgence or tolerance, when we are not able to achieve the objectives we have set with it. Thank you for answering this important question, Prime Minister. Believe that we will certainly have the opportunity to return to it. I shall conclude, Mr President, if I may, by reaffirming my scepticism, which, from year to year, only reinforces itself on the basis of the figures which fall after the financial year. The fiscal year up to 2018 was the omega of your fiscal policy during this legislature. I read that the president of the MR was not a fetishist, which is probably already a way of preparing the opinion. The Minister of Budget herself suggested that when she reworked her stability agenda, the government would or would not maintain its objective of restoring fiscal balance so that one would be in an optional scheme: we will see whether or not we can do it, which gives the impression of navigating in the short term, 2018 being close, but also, in the longer term, more or less, and, in this regard, I will point out that the government's multi-year trajectory continues to worry. Mr Piedboeuf wished, earlier, for the majority to be renewed. I wish you, but not necessarily for the country. If you like it, why not? Whatever the majority of the next government, it will face a number of problems to solve. Indeed, the bodies that help us manage public finances have stressed the need for some concern. The tax shift is not funded by what has been said and by the European Commission and the Court of Auditors and confirmed when its redesign failed. This was even admitted by the Minister of Finance who then announced that he would come back with new tax shift funding trajectories. It's admitting that there's a problem here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u86	Several times, since this morning, we have heard that the tax shift was not funded. We are talking, I remind you, and we have already pointed out in committee, about the 2017 budget. In the latter, which is not that of the tax shift, the tax shift is fully present in revenue and expenditure. It is true that we are doing a multi-year exercise, which was never the case before, and it is therefore possible to plan for the future. In my opinion, in Budget 2018, the 2018 tax shift will also be fully included in revenue and expenditure. Stop shouting slogans! The tax shift is fully included in the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u87	Mr Piedboeuf, I don't work in slogans. In my conclusion, I allowed myself to go beyond the strict framework of the 2017 financial year to mention the multi-annual perspectives that I believe should be of concern to us. I wasn't talking in terms of slogans. And what you're saying about 2017 may be correct, but what you're saying about the rest of it doesn't reassure me, since your words are just "we'll see!" Indeed, it is this way of flying that worries me. "We'll see!" It is a visual navigation which is not of a nature, I think, to reassure all those who have doubts about the financing of the tax shift and who, moreover, for a subsequent tax shift exercise, demand, in a very firm way, true budgetary neutrality. This is proof that it was not carried out in previous years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u88	Mr President, first of all the European Commission. The European Commission explicitly states that the tax shift is not funded. That is why she doubts your trajectory, your multi-annual framework. She explains expressis verbis that the tax shift is not funded and, already for 2016 and 2017. And, before her, the National Bank. And the Minister of Finance himself explains to us that he is planning on returns that are not yet demonstrated and certainly not demonstrable. Mr Piedboeuf, it is not just the opposition that says that the tax shift is not funded. There are a whole series of institutions. Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u89	Don't worry, Mr. Laaouej, "we'll see!" But there is still another source of concern for those who are concerned about the multi-year trajectory. It is – and it is still the Court of Auditors that says so – everything that falls under the purview of National Defence. The Court of Auditors points out, and it is not denied by anyone, that a number of choices of investments made by the present government will have a budgetary impact only in future years and that this is of course a cause for concern with regard to the trajectories which will be those of the federal state in the coming years. And so, it is an element of uncertainty with regard to the multi-year trajectory, especially since there is added to this – I can leave the floor to you, Prime Minister – also a concern with regard to the change in the military pension system. This is a matter of concern to the military themselves, but it may also give rise to budgetary concern, since if the military has to work longer before it can retire, it will necessarily have an additional cost in terms of staff costs, and it will also be an expense for future years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u90	In order to preserve the quality of the debate, I would like briefly to clarify some points. With regard to multi-annual forecasts, I would like to stress that it is only since 2015 that the European Commission considers that we need to work on multi-annual projections. This is a good thing because it allows us to exchange views, even if we do not share the same reasoning, whether in the context of the tax shift or on other subjects. First point. You take the example of the Defence budget to say that there would be some uncertainty or unpredictability. If you were a little bit of good faith, you would recognize that, in terms of defence-related investments, a long period of time elapses, given the very nature of the investments, between the time of the decision and the time when the decision has a significant impact on the state budget. With regard to the A400Ms, the decisions were taken fifteen years ago. And it is only at the time of delivery that invoices are paid. So, here too, we take responsibility. This is our trademark: we are trying to prepare for the future by taking a number of orientations and decisions. In the case of Defence, we have reasond both by releasing capacities up to €200 million in short-term investments, to organise this link with the progressive implementation of the strategic vision. It is the process that is followed. And if that is the argument that you are making in an attempt to weaken the way in which budgetary matters are dealt with, let me tell you that this is particularly weak. Second point. A few moments ago, Mr. Dispa, you said an enormity. You have spoken of the figures of justice by saying that, since the establishment of this government, the figures of justice have been reduced by 80 million euros. It's a counter-truth, Mr. Dispa. Why? Because you do not take into account the fact that in the meantime there has been a sixth reform of the State, which has decided to transfer juvenile delinquency and the houses of justice to the federated entities. Apples should be compared with apples and not apples with pears.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u91	Prime Minister, I should like to quote the Court of Auditors. I know that, according to Mr Piedboeuf, it is wrong, but let me quote it anyway: "The Court points out that the balance of funding will be met, from 2020 onwards, by a number of expenditure on military supplies. In conclusion, the Court considers that the multiannual budgetary framework is incomplete and must be approached with some caution." Mr. Dispa didn't say anything else!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u92	Mr President, on the Defence side, I will also refer to the advice of the Council of State on the Military Programming Act. He pointed out, however, that for the first time, a government would postpone the investment burden on subsequent governments to 100 per cent. I therefore do not agree at all with the vision just presented to us by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u93	Prime Minister, don't get me wrong, I haven't contested the government's military programming choices. A number of choices are included in the military programming project that are necessary and supported by the CDH. I have simply stressed that, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report, these choices will generate a budgetary impact that will be reflected in future financial years. I do not blame you, it is a reality which obliges us to be even more careful here in relation to the restoration of the balance of the budget since, without that, we will be exposed to even greater difficulties beyond the 2018 financial year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u94	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u95	That is not what I say; I say that it is a cause for concern for the future and that we cannot ignore it. Allow me to highlight a number of elements that need to be taken into account if we are to have a medium- and long-term pilotage. There are still other factors of concern, including the issue of interest rates. Interest rates have fallen dramatically in recent years. Unless I made a mistake, between 2012 and 2016, if interest rates had remained unchanged, we would have had an additional cost of EUR 4 billion in the 2016 financial year. This has generated a budgetary space that you have benefited from and I do not blame you for that. There are external factors that are negative, but this one is profitable in terms of the budget. But I can't believe that this trend will continue indefinitely and, at some point, the rates will start rising again. It is also a worrisome effect since it will reasonably be expected that the debt will rise. It is therefore a third element that I would like to point out, without reproaching you. Objectively, it is a factor of insecurity that must be taken into account by current and future majorities. As far as justice is concerned, if the world of justice is reassured by your words, I would be very happy. Unfortunately, the state in which it is found to be completely effective in the so-called reinvestment you claim to be doing. Mr. Piedboeuf said earlier that you have to dream very high to realize very low. I would tend to say: dream a little lower and get a little higher results, that would be better for public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hear some Members today saying that they are proud of the 2017 budget that is before us. The image leapt in from a little child who is proud because it gets the first notes from a violin or from another musical instrument. Only the instrument with which you play is broken and worn out. It's also a cat trap vote. Every attempt you make to get the instrument tuned and while you're just starting to turn the voting buttons, the strings jump. If you do not do so yourself, the coalition partners will do so for you, given the good atmosphere in the current government. You have promised the voter beautiful symphonies, but everyone who is not deaf realizes that with the Belgian instrument you can't even make the simplest melody sound decent. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to ensure that the economic situation in this country is stable and that investment pays off, and if you finally want to create a business-friendly environment, you will not do so by putting a reduction in corporate tax on the long term and certainly not by introducing a further increase in withholding tax of up to 30%. That tax has doubled in six years. By the way, this tax will mainly be paid by the Fleming. The promised strength of change was that the budgetary figures would come together. Remember that at the time the Minister of Finance actually made that point the commitment of the current government. The budgetary balance was the condition and the reason why the Community has been in the refrigerator for years. The N-VA itself has made its mark of the budgetary aspect. It is, as it were, the reason for the existence of the current coalition. In the meantime, as no other, you realise that you will not be able to live up to that election promise, to get the state finances in order. What do we see in practice? We see the better twisting. The current coalition makes turns and turns on which many figure skater would be jealous. At first there was a budget in balance and a deficit of zero. By 2018-2019, that budget balance would be there. A year ago, this ambition was silently turned into an objective to have a structural budget balance, which is still a deficit. In September 2016, we were able to read in the newspaper that Bart De Wever had already openly started another turn, in order to let go of that idea of structural budgetary balance. He openly admitted in De Tijd that it is no longer desirable and feasible to focus on a structural budget balance by 2018-2019. In the meantime, the Minister for the Budget himself has already said that a budget balance is no longer a priority. The Prime Minister may come here a month and a half ago, in his policy statement, with a face-to-face, saying that a budget balance will remain the objective in 2018, and no one really believes that anymore. Mr Vande Lanotte just quoted Professor of Economics Peersman, who had already said that he would eat his shoe if the government still succeeds in balancing the budget. In order to keep the budget on track, towards a budget balance in 2018, billions of structural savings are still needed. Ladies and gentlemen, if today's structural adjustment is not possible, do you really think that, closer to municipal elections, it will suddenly succeed, that the profiling urge will no longer stand in the way? The next turn in the discussion of this budget became clear: if the focus is no longer on a budget balance and not even on a structural budget balance, but rather on the balance of finance and the balance of claims; the question of public debt should not be taken into account. Mr Klaps may have just spoken of honesty to the citizens, but that is what people are looking at. Colleagues, the 2017 budget is typically cut-and-paste that we have known since purple. Your budget will be patched up with VAT revenue, withholding tax for as much as 863 million euros, the fuel cards on the company cars, a stock exchange tax, excise duties, also not very original. Nor is it original: no less than 14% of the new budgetary measures must come from tax fraud. All very credible if, in eight months' time, you do not even succeed in getting the posting of 15 tax officials to the Justice Department promised by the Panama Plan in order. This budget is very similar to what is going on in the margins, without the detection and treatment of deeper diseases. We saw the same thing with the previous socialist governments, because not much changes are structural. Despite the Community's standstill, it will be the Fleming who will pay mainly for the stock exchange tax, for the increased withholding tax and for the handling of commercial cars through the tank cards. I wonder if two years ago you had such a budget with such Community taxes in mind? A budget deficit that lingers around 3% of domestic product is disastrous. It is even officially worse than with your predecessor, Prime Minister. According to the European Commission, this is due to higher primary expenditure. So not only do you have a problem with systematically overestimating revenue, you also have a problem on the expenditure side, and above all you have a problem on the expenditure side. Structurally, you don't change anything about that. According to the European Commission, the 2017 budgetary plans are opaque and it is unclear how Belgium wants to make structural savings. It is a mess budget and of all EU Member States Belgium received the worst budget score. Ladies and gentlemen, I would once again like to ask whether, two years ago, you envisaged such a redeployment budget. Was it for such a budget that you agreed to a Community standstill? Ladies and gentlemen, today I have heard all kinds of excuses, from attacks to the so-called unpredictable asylum crisis. However, I did not hear you speak of the windfalls. You got help, too. Until now, the government has been greatly helped in its budgetary restructuring by falling interest charges on high debt. Those who have already saved the most in favour of this government are Mario Draghi, the President of the European Central Bank. Thanks to the smooth policy of the ECB, the Belgian government benefits from extremely low interest rates. The Treasury earned more than 150 million euros in negative interest rates in 2016. Last week, the Debt Agency borrowed EUR 300 million at an interest rate of EUR 0,79 %. However, this situation will not last. Interest rates will rise in the long term. Only then will you have a serious problem of paying off this huge public debt, because then these governments, as well as the coming governments, will have to save heavily just to pay the interest on that sovereign debt. Today, without that interest snowball, with those extremely low interest rates, you're already failing to reduce the government debt. However, all the majority parties have promised this before the elections. CD&V even put numbers on that. According to CD&V, government debt would be reduced by a fifth in five years, bringing us to 80% of GDP by 2019. Given the current situation, a limit of 105 % will be almost impossible. Your total government debt has increased in recent years. We were at 105.8 % of GDP in 2015, in 2016 it was 107 %. It does not appear that there will be a turnaround in 2017, as the European Commission's forecast for 2017 is of 107.1 % of GDP. Public debt higher than Di Rupo and its socialists, while economic growth is higher than under the crisis years during Di Rupo. Then I wonder again, ladies and gentlemen, whether you had that in mind two years ago. Was it before you agreed to this Community standstill? There is still a lot of room for savings to really clean up on the expenditure side, but a number of taboos need to be discussed. The billions of euros that go to asylum and migration in this country are not questioned. Nor is spending on the European Union cut. If we look at this budget line and only see the operating costs of the European Union, then we see that this government pays more than EUR 3 billion every year. In the 2017 budget, the European Union will receive even EUR 200 million more than last year. Belgium gives EUR 3.4 billion to the European Union to cover its needs for 2017. Remember that a few weeks ago, for the 22nd time in a row, the European Court of Auditors rejected the budget for the European Union. This year this happened because of the illegal costs of more than EUR 5 billion again. The European Union is therefore not only responsible for a national budget that goes in the red because of its failing policy on the euro and on the refugee invasion, but also for the European Union itself. A gift to the European Union for bad policies, as it were. I wonder if that amount can't go down. There are a lot of agencies in the European Union that do not use up their resources every year and simply transfer them to the next year. It would be logical for this money to return to the Member States with a distribution key before you continue to deposit. Colleagues, I come to my conclusion. If I study your 2017 budget, I'll establish five failures. False 1: I note that the government parties' budget marketing has been constantly updated over the past two years. The focus on a budget in balance shifted to a structural budget in balance. And the focus is now being shifted to the balance sheet. The majority parties have rerouted their communications. You may wonder why that is necessary if everything goes well. First, putting the economy in order was the great objective on which the government could be dealt with. Now that budget is mentioned in a long line and it has become just one aspect on which the government would fail. Job creation and economic growth would be positive, at least according to propaganda. But, and that is failure 2, that unemployment is not falling at all, and also the economic growth forecast is constantly being adjusted downwards. Growth expectations are lower than the forecasts of previous years and, failing 3, this growth is also much lower than in the neighbouring countries of the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom. Faling 4, add to that the towering public debt that has risen even further over the past two years. False 5: the economic recovery, as far as it is concerned, has been bought on the puff, because the tax shift has not been financed. Colleagues, these five failures show that this government is actually a government in failure. The majority parties had the ambition to run the NV Belgium as a company, but a company in failure goes bankrupt and needs to be dissolved. That is the only correct conclusion in examining your disastrous 2017 budget, which, of course, our group will not approve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u97	Mr President, Prime Minister, where did the austerity money go? That is the question we are entitled to ask ourselves today. That is the question that I have asked various colleagues. Indeed, the figures are inquisitive. When we sum up the budgetary efforts of the last two years, we find that this government asked for 4.4 billion in 2015 and 4.7 billion in 2016, if we count the initial effort and the budgetary control, which makes a total of 9 billion efforts imposed on the population. If we count the next $3 billion, we're up to $12 billion. We will remember the false graphics of the N-VA that circulated on the web, even if it was not long ago. Finally, what became of the $9 billion? What has been done to reduce the deficit? The numbers are what they are. The funding balance was 2.6% in 2014. Today, it still stands at -2.6%. In other words, he didn't move. It's zero or it's approaching zero. It was not the Minister of Finance, nor the Minister of Budget, but the Minister of the Interior, Jan Jambon, who stated in Le Vif that we had improved the funding balance by 0.03% and that it was insufficient. That is indeed insufficient. We are far from the NV-A's goed bestuur, its 2014 program, which called for a balanced budget so as not to leave debts to future generations and not to pay unnecessary interest. Where's the N-VA's goed bestur? And most importantly, where did the money go? It's a lot more challenging. When I questioned him earlier, Mr. Piedboeuf did not want to answer me, which saddened me a little. Unless he couldn't answer me! In that case, I'm sad for him. Mr Klaps was, for his part, more enthusiastic about speaking since he told me that all that money had gone into the reductions in employer charges. In doing so, according to the N-VA representative, the 9 billion austerity went missing in gifts to the bosses. Everyone will be able to draw their conclusions. That's what the N-VA says. I wasn't going that far, Mr. Borsus. I was going to say a nice part of that $9 billion, not all of it, but the N-VA tells us that the $9 billion went into gifts to the boss. Who finally paid for this austerity? It's the workers first. It is the working population that has had to pay the index jumps, the indirect taxes that are always felt to have the effects of both and that will continue to pay through the reform of the 1996 law on competitiveness. For twenty years, workers were told that they had to make sacrifices because the three neighbouring countries had wages that were changing in a different way, which were changing less rapidly than at home. "You must make sacrifices, twenty years of sacrifice!" And when we see that this so-called wage disadvantage is finally exhausted, we're told that we're going to change the rules of the game. Indeed, the government, a few days ago, agreed to change the rules of the game after twenty years of efforts by the workers. It can already be calculated that this will result in a salary loss for the year that comes from 1 to 1.5%. The Prime Minister confirms. You have another number, right? There will also be losses in terms of social expenditure, with cuts in social expenditure, of course, which are heavy for these workers, and in terms of wages which are much less changing in Belgium than in other countries. I give you Eurostat statistics for 2015: France + 1.6%, Germany + 2.8%, the Netherlands + 3%, wages in Belgium a miserable + 0.1%. Wages in Belgium therefore change much less than elsewhere. That's to say, they're not evolving. We often hear this N-VA speech saying that disposable income has increased, but disposable income does not say if it is all households. We can't isolate the workers there. On the other hand, when wages change, in gross national income, the ratio of wages to gross national income declines. In 2015, it was 50.34%. In 2016, for the three quarters of which we have the statistics, it is only 48.97 %. This therefore makes a difference of 1.37% of GDP, in the range of 5 to 6 billion euros lost by workers. This policy, which takes place at the expense of workers and especially the poorest, is also reflected in the distribution of the tax shift's PPI earnings. I had the opportunity to question Mr. Piedboeuf earlier with a table that was provided to me by the FPS Finance, through an answer to a question that I had asked the Minister of Finance. This table clearly shows that the first decile, i.e. the lowest 10% income in Belgium, received 0.1% of the tax reduction for natural persons. And the first five deciles, thus the poorest 50% of the population, received 19.6%, or about a fifth, of the IPP tax shift manna. This means that the richest 50% took 80% of the IPP manna. On the other hand, indirect taxes which partially offset this reduction in the tax on natural persons are more dependent on low incomes. We know that this weighs more heavily on low incomes. They are therefore twice victims. They are victims at the level of the IPP and they are a second victim at the level of indirect taxes. Also victims of this austerity: public services. The dismantling of public services continues to be more successful with this government. In ten years, the FPS Finances has seen a reduction of 8,000 units. And with the 2017 budget, this will continue. Trade unionists are worried, sound alarms, talk about costly savings and say that it is the disorganization of finance that is thus programmed. Since this is budgetaryly foolish, one wonders if there is a desire to protect tax fraud, perhaps to protect some friends or, in any case, some circles related to this government. What is clear is that in terms of public services, this government had invented the magic formula that made it possible to make savings without applying austerity, without reducing the use of public services. The government called it the redesign. Today, the redesign deflates like a baudrouch. Actually, there's nothing left. The government, in its budget, was obliged to admit, by the figures, that this redesign was based on virtually nothing. Also victims of this austerity: pensioners. I'm not going to list all the attacks that the pensioners have been going through for two years and that they're still going through now. What's weird is that all the attacks on pensioners go very quickly, very easily. On the other hand, when it comes to agreeing on a revision of the pension of parliamentarians, there, obviously, it blocks. For all pensioners, this goes, except for one category: the political world. The sick are particularly targeted by this government. Nine hundred billion savings in 2017, in addition to what has already been done. One can say, Prime Minister, that you are a bit of a Belgian model of health what Trump is at Obama Care: a destruction company. Antibiotics, nasal spray, anti-acids, length of stay in maternity, hospitals, everything goes there, with a strongly revised standard of growth downwards. At the beginning, historically, it was 4.5%; today, it is barely 0.5%. Finally, it is not even a health policy, it is a purely budgetary policy that creates false alibi such as attacks on antibiotics, which will be counterproductive measures, since bronchitis that cannot be treated today will become tomorrow's pneumonia for which care will be more expensive. A special mention for this demolition company: the attack on medical homes which are yet something positive in the world of health, with a different conception of medicine, not based on the attractiveness of money and yet effective in terms of quality of care. Other victims of this policy include mobility. Company cars are not called into question. We have under-invested in the SNCB, the $3 billion planned for the legislature and the billion announced by Minister Bellot that we will have to find in the very finances of railway companies. Not to mention gifts to Electrabel and others. This government's fiscal trajectory is particularly close to the plate. In 2014, in the table presented to us, the structural balance of entities I and II would increase from - 2% to - 1.3% the following year, then to - 0.6%, and then to - 0.1%, to reach balance in 2018. The curve finally changes in the opposite direction. We are moving away from the situation as presented in 2014. All of a sudden, by miracle, the government tells us that in 2017, the effort will be significant and that we will be approaching fiscal balance. However, the opposite has happened in the previous two years. It is the pessimistic forecasts of the European Union that have proved themselves in practice. This raises two questions. How can we believe in an improvement for 2017 when the previous two years have stagnated? What further efforts will be required of the population if we respect the return to balance for 2018? We are talking about EUR 8 billion that will probably disappear like the EUR 9 billion of the last two years. We must also talk about the evolution of the debt that the European Commission tells us is that if it is more or less under control – this is not really the case – it is due to favourable exogenous factors and that there is no merit on the part of the government. This debt is not linked to the potential investments that the Prime Minister has told us about; it is only a result of successive deficits. We were 105.8 per cent in 2015, we went up to 107 per cent in 2016 and the European Commission expects us to reach 107.1 per cent next year. The traditional parties have voted for a European austerity treaty with very strict rules, but we see that none of the European rules, which our party rejects, are applied. Belgium did not apply the 60% rule (it failed), neither that of the 1/20th of the gap (it failed), nor the transition period 2014-2016 which would have led to accumulated delays in previous years. However, the Commission is fishing for Belgium, given its structural reforms, which clearly shows its arbitrary attitude. Indeed, if we look at the treatment of Greece, we note that a tiny debt relief has been suspended, following the Greek Government's decision to grant, thanks to a budgetary surplus, an increase in pensions for modest pensioners. Greece has dared to consider a small increase in pensions for modest pensioners and has been downgraded to the European level. While Belgium does not comply at all with the criteria of debt, it is not serious, because we are in a neo-liberal logic. We therefore have a White Paper from the European Commission. I don't have time to talk to you about the job. Unfortunately, the situation is not ideal, Prime Minister. I'm sorry to tell you. Here, too, you have a bad newsletter. We can tell you about the increase in part-time work compared to full-time work. There are twice as many part-times created as full-time, not to mention a 15% increase in acting time. First of all, you do not really create jobs; I would even say that your policy hinders the natural creation of jobs. We saw that without government, there would be more jobs than with a government like yours. Moreover, the few jobs created are precarious jobs, which put people in deplorable situations. If I had had time, I could have told you about these tax revenues; precisely, the Minister of Finance is coming. This would have been an opportunity to talk about these recipes that are never on the table. Each time, it is hoped that you will invent a tax that will finally bring back money, but not: each time, we have the same problem, except obviously when it comes to introducing taxes on consumption. And again! Even in this case, as we have seen for some excise duties a little "beside the plate", it does not always bring back money. Basically, since the president is asking me to conclude, I must tell you, dear members of the majority and of the government, that your software is not working. I would even say that your operating system is not working. Here are the lessons that can be learned from Caterpillar; in any case, these are the lessons that you learn when a tragedy like this occurs. You tell us that you are going to reduce the cost of work further, and continue in this system that does not work, while Caterpillar shows precisely that the problem is not the cost of labour, but the cost of capital. Indeed, this group has been increasing dividends paid to shareholders from year to year for the past 22 years. Each year, Caterpillar's objective is not an industrial policy, nor an employment policy; it is obvious that it is a policy of increasing dividends year after year. Mr Nollet asked for the floor, but I am not President of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u98	We must conclude, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u99	Mr President, does Mr Nollet have the right to speak or do I have to finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u100	Vous devez terminer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u101	Mr President, can I finish, or can you give him the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u102	No. You're finishing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u103	I'll finish. There are, however, some avenues. The PTB is in favour of a reform of ISOC. Remove from ISOC all that makes Belgium a tax haven, remove all these tax niches? The PTB is in favour of this. Taxing capital gains on shares? Again, we are to tax all income in the same way – either at ISOC or at personal tax. The Kiwi model is a way to raise money and save money in health care, not on the backs of patients, but on the backs of multinational drug companies. Finally, we propose a millionaire tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u104	Mr Van Hees, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u105	Mr. President, that will be my last sentence. Capital management in Belgium represents 240 billion euros in 2015, twice as much as in 2005. So there's a lot of money to tax in big fortunes. I would remind you that we have tabled a proposal for a millionaire tax. So, if the government and the majority wanted one day to attack 1% of the richest, instead of the other 99 percent, this proposal is waiting for it to be key on its doorstep.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by thanking the various speakers, not only at this plenary session, but also in the work in committee during which the ministers concerned had the opportunity to discuss with the parliamentarians of the majority and the opposition. As far as I am concerned, I will try, in this reply, to be as lucid and as objective as possible. I realize that, two years after this government takes office, we must try to look objectively at the results we have achieved, the positive and favourable results, but also at the objectives that we still need to achieve and which therefore require further decisions. Two years ago, we had three clear objective objectives. The first important point is economic reform, the modernisation of our economy, with the prospect of job creation. The second important priority is social cohesion and today we are taking measures to make the financing of our social model sustainable. That's a strong commitment. The third important point is safety. Over the last few hours, we have been confronted with the tragic attack in Berlin. Within the framework of these three objectives, it is certain that the budgetary challenge must be a political instrument in an attempt to gradually realize in the short, medium and long term in the daily lives of our citizens, improvements in security, economic development and social protection. In your own way, and as you indicated during your interventions, the government has three levers in the budget with a parliamentary majority that supports it. The first is the definition of a revenue strategy with the necessary predictability of tax revenues, an exercise that is not the simplest (we recognize it and we have measured it well), which is why we are putting in place a taskforce to improve the predictability of tax revenues. There is no doubt that when we undertake reforms such as those we have been undertaking for the past two years, this has an impact on the way we look at this predictability of tax revenues. If we decide not to reform, there will be less unpredictability in the calculation of tax revenues for the future. The second element is expenditure. Several have rightly mentioned the Court of Auditors' report, which points to a number of points which are sometimes positive and sometimes less so. But it cannot be disputed that this report shows that the budgets introduced reflect a relatively correct control of expenditure in the financial year submitted to Parliament and which will, I hope, be voted on in a few days before the end of the week. The third and last important point is the speed with which we can achieve our objectives. That is to say, what the rate of sanitation is. It is true that we have continued to consider that the target remains 2018, but, as the Budget Minister mentioned in committee, every year we have to look at the different parameters to see how we can move towards fiscal adjustment on the one hand, and try to achieve results in terms of economic recovery, on the other. My conviction, which should not surprise you, is that the budget presented is consistent with the objectives set. It is consistent, because it is trying to translate the objectives we have set. Our first important objective is to modernise our economy and create jobs. That's not an exact science. We are aware of that. There are some factors on which we can exert direct influence. However, there are also external factors that we must take into account. In this respect, there can be a great deal of criticism of the majority and of the government, but over the last two years we have taken many fundamental structural decisions which have a positive impact on the modernisation of our economy, on the strengthening of our economy. We have made choices, choices that were not simple, choices that have opened up a sometimes passionate, sometimes difficult debate, as we have seen today, but choices that have led to a number of decisions, which are considered by the European Commission, by the IMF to have played a positive role in economic results. Very briefly, I will highlight some of these decisions. The choice, for example, to give more support to SMEs is a clear direction, for which we have chosen. There will be more support for SMEs in the form of a zero contribution to initial recruitment, a reduction in labour costs for the six first recruitments by an SME, a doubling of tax support for investments in SMEs, a tax shelter for SMEs and an improvement in the purchasing power of the self-employed. An effect will be felt on January 1, 2017, with the rule of reducing self-employed contributions. The tax shift has been mentioned a lot, much discussed in this Parliament in recent months. This is normal because we wanted this tax shift to be a structural instrument of our economic policy. We can mention all the interpretations, all the comments we want on this tax shift, but no one can deny that this tax shift expresses a political will that aims to reduce the burden on work, both for the person who hires, who creates activity and employment and the person who works, mainly when there is a low and a medium wage. On the horizon of the end of the legislature, it is an envelope of about 8 billion euros that must be reinjected into the economy. That's right, I heard the comments on the tax shift funding, we made the choice to implement the tax shift year after year. The budgets we present will allow the tax shift to be implemented throughout the legislature. There will be further budgetary debates in 2017, in 2018. We will need to have the adjustment of revenue and expenditure in order to realize the commitments that have been made, for example, under this tax shift. The tax shift also allowed us to make progress in improving Belgium's competitive position faster than we thought. Two years ago, when this government was formed, we did not plan to reduce the wage disadvantage so quickly. If we have made progress in reducing wage disadvantage faster than we thought, we must, at the same time, for the budgetary dimension, continue to make additional efforts to constantly adjust our budget, taking into account factors that will change. No one knows today what the growth parameters will be in a few months. No one knows today what the volume of jobs will be created in a year and in two years' time. This will have an impact on the effort to implement the budget after the budget until the end of the legislature. Finally, economic reforms, support for SMEs, improvement of competitiveness, gradual strengthening of purchasing power, mainly for low and medium wage earners. No one here can contest only in two years, we have reduced the tax burden on labour by up to EUR 3 billion. It's a reality. This has an impact, it leads to the necessary efforts on a multi-year plan to continue sanitation, but it is a choice that is made to support and encourage initiative and work. No one can dispute that, for the first time, the trade balance has become positive. No one can dispute that there is a recovery in investment and confidence that encourages companies to be more forward-looking. However, are we in an ideal and perfect position? Are we living in an ideal world? Of course not. Of course there are difficulties. Of course there are obstacles here in Belgium. Recent events in Belgium, France and Berlin a few hours ago have had an impact. For example, the VBO calculated that the attacks in Brussels cost us several billion euros. So the events have an impact on our economy. We must also take account of the opportunities for structural reforms, given the strong political will to achieve results. It is in this spirit that we have made the choice, in parallel with the budget exercise before you, to move forward on a supplementary package of reforms to support business creation and job creation. We're continuing the work. A few days ago, at the initiative of Minister Peeters, the government validated the reform of the labour market, the reform of the 1996 law, the reform of e-commerce, which will allow to debate these issues in parliament and pursue an approach that aims to make our labour market more attractive to continue to achieve additional results in terms of jobs. I would now like to say a word about employment. I did not want to speak earlier in the debate between Members on the subject. In this respect, I am trying to be as objective as possible in the analysis of the situation. No one can argue – the ICN and the National Bank point out – that 105,000 jobs have been created over the last two years. For the past two years, 105,000 families have more purchasing power, are more free from poverty. No one can dispute this, and certainly not when we look at the negative and positive points noted in the reports of the Court of Auditors, the National Bank and the International Monetary Fund. All these institutions recognize the effect of the measures we have taken and their results in terms of creating activities, in terms of job creation. Is that enough? No! Will we continue to make reforms to do better and more and to increase the employment rate more significantly, taking into account the fact that more and more people are joining the labour market? Of course! We need to make more efforts and continue the reform process in this area. In doing so, there is no triumphalism. There is no shadow of triumphalism in the government's attitude. There is a conviction that the first results are beginning to be achieved, even if this is insufficient and that the necessary reforms must continue to be gradually, calmly and quietly achieved. For my part, I believe, for example, that the reform of competitiveness, the reform of e-commerce, will continue to stimulate the creation of activities and thus the creation of jobs. There is, therefore, first of all the strengthening of our economic structure with the will – it is not simple – to continue to gradually clean up our budget. There is still work to be done in this area. I recognize him. Secondly, job creation, the modernisation of our economy. This is not for the pleasure of reading beautiful figures, but to strengthen our social model. We are convinced that it is necessary, taking into account demographic realities, to take decisions today which will have an impact on the short, medium and long term. I would like to respond to one point that is very important to me: the issue of health care. I respect the democratic debates that have taken place on the subject, in which everyone has given their interpretation and their reading. But as Prime Minister, I will give you our vision of this important issue of access to health care, and therefore of dignity for those who, at some point in their lives, face the disease, sometimes even chronically. We have, Mrs. Onkelinx, it is true, a good health care system, which is the fruit of a history, of a tradition that has been gradually cultivated. And we want - I do not want to have any ambiguity about this - to ensure that this model remains solid: a foundation of effective solidarity for all our citizens. Indeed, several years ago we had growth situations that led to significant increases in health care budgets. Our current reality must lead us, reasonably, also to make structural reforms in the health care department. And I mean all the support and encouragement I want to send to the Minister of Health who is courageously mobilizing, in this context, to make reforms that are not simple. The reform of hospitals, for example, with the aim of improving quality and the real possibility of strengthening expertise, is not evident. However, in recent weeks I have been in contact with the representatives of hospitals and they are aware that it is necessary to achieve results in the short, medium and long term. Health care is €7 billion, as much as all the security departments combined. It's an important budget. It seems to me to be an important element that there is an approach to ensuring that expenditure can be kept under control. I formally contest the messages that have been given that there would be a desire to break a model of health care, to break a model of social security. On the contrary, to be brave, to preserve and to comfort, is to make decisions today to ensure that we can pay for health care for everyone tomorrow and the day after!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u107	Prime Minister, you will admit that, at the very least, these savings are in front of what your Minister of Health said a few months ago in the newspapers, that no more savings would be made, otherwise it would be on the patient's back. I just wanted to remind you of that element, which has not been denied at any time. These are statements that have been made but have not been respected in the acts and in the facts, with the 900 million euros added here for 2017. I thank you for listening to me because I thought it was important to remind you of these elements, those commitments that had been made but which, obviously, are not being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u108	We talked a lot about it in committee with the minister. We've already exchanged a lot here, including your government statement at the beginning of the year. I'd like to hear some big phrases like you. Everyone is able to do this by saying in an inspired way – you do it well – that health care is important. That's true, but when you make a fiscal trajectory where, at the end of the journey, you're going to have a growth in the health care budget below 0.5%, so well below economic growth, you're making huge savings in an area where there's an ongoing need for investment. I said it earlier. For example, on the reform of hospitals, it was I who asked - you remember - the Kenniscentrum (KCE) to reflect on this. We all know that there is a need for reforms in this area, which also take into account changes in the way in which one manages one's own health, such as in-home hospitalization, and new ways of managing one's own health. It is true that there are whole colloquia at European level devoted to it. We also want to network a lot more. It's obvious to ensure a higher quality. All this is true. But, you, what have you done? You've taken great goals. You've stuck a budget target. So what matters is no longer a reform so that the hospital follows a necessary modernity, an increase in quality, while maintaining access to health care. It is an economic objective: we want to make 90 million euros. Get on with it! And we'll close if necessary, including in areas where we need local hospitals. That's what you're doing. I want you to keep saying, all night long if you want, "For us, health is important." Yes, but concretely, in the choices you make, you will decrease the quality of health care. The same applies to the patient's contribution. The minister said, "We don't touch the patient." What are you doing? You enter into a conclave and you say to the poor minister, "What do you want? You're going to save money, including on your patients." We quoted, I don't know how many times antibiotics. But it's not just antibiotics. (...): Antiulcers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u109	It's not just in these areas. Ask pharmacists for the moment! They'll tell you what they think. Ask the doctors, they'll tell you what they think. Ask them "para", like ostheopaths, kines, etc., they will also tell you what they think. So, yes to a mastery of the means in health care; I will never say the opposite. I hate to say there's only one. That's not true; I'm not saying that. On the other hand, you have imposed a budgetary logic on health care management that is going to be a problem - I say it and I repeat - to the system that we have patiently put in place, year after year, especially with you, to have one of the best systems in the world. That's what you're doing. It is to reduce the quality of this extraordinary system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u110	Mrs Onkelinx, I share your view. If stronger reforms had been made faster, the situation would have been simpler. Today, I agree with this analysis and what I wanted to say - and I continue, unfortunately, on this subject, to see a difference in approach - is that today, to be responsible is to get reforms into effect, to bring them into force gradually, so that the financial sustainability of access to health care for everyone can be guaranteed. Finally, I would like to give another example, in the social field, which is close to my heart for which, too, we take responsibility, which gives rise to debate and reactions: the financing of pensions. We measure that, very quickly, initial decisions have been taken to encourage the extension of the average length of careers. Here too, we try, month after month, at the departure of the government, within the framework of the National Pensions Committee, by giving the social partners space – we hope – to make sure that we broaden the basis of a consensus to reform our pension system over the long term. And this with some important political principles. We believe, for example, that it is useful to have a stronger link between work and retirement in the future. In fact, we consider this necessary. We must also develop a more balanced system in the sense that the various models must be progressively harmonised. We have also taken account of the important issue of the heavy professions. It is an important and very difficult reform. A number of criteria were adopted together with the social partners. It is the government's intention to continue working on this in order to achieve results for the future. This shows that, through this extremely difficult reform, the financial sustainability of the pension system is guaranteed. It is not by inaction that this system will be made solid today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, but, on the contrary, by opening difficult debates which provoke controversy and controversy with, from time to time, I believe, simplistic forms in the argumentation. It would be easier not to do anything but to do nothing would be neither responsible nor reasonable. We therefore act while respecting the social partners, a point on which we want to make further progress. Finally, I would like to touch on one point which I believe is important. Continuing reforms is, of course, continuing the work to ensure that our taxes are modernized. Our taxation must be effective in creating activities and jobs, be it fair, equitable, properly distributed. We must combine these two principles. In two years, as you have seen, many decisions have been made. We will have to continue to work on these issues, as several have pointed out. That will, of course, be an important exercise for the government. We will do everything we can to achieve additional results for the strengthening of our economy and for greater justice. That's what we're trying to do. We had to make progress on three points, namely in the debate on corporation tax, in the debates on value added tax and in the question of activation of savings. I have taken initiatives in this area with my colleagues from the government. We are investigating how we can obtain support from some institutions, for example from the National Bank, the Supreme Court of Finance or the Planning Bureau. We already had the opportunity to organise meetings with these important bodies. There is still work to be done, and we will still have the opportunity to have a great deal of passionate debate and believe that the government will take part in it. I would like to talk to you about one point that is very close to my heart, tax fraud. The opposition tries to cast doubt and give the impression that there would be some kind of complacency with this fraud. This debate is not acceptable. What are the facts? All the measures that have been decided in the past have been confirmed and implemented. We have only added additional measures to strengthen the fight against tax fraud. New batteries of measures have been validated in recent days and will be presented in this Parliament. They will provide more capacity, both human and legal, so that we can take into account the opinions of our administrations. We have reported to the committee on the progress made in this area. I would like to conclude by telling you that we are all measuring, no matter what bench we sit on,... Majority and opposition, we all know that the world is changing. We know that Europe once again is not the first time in our history to face difficult, delicate challenges. We also know that unpredictability creates concern and sometimes even a sense of fear for the future. Therefore, it is important for a government, for a majority, to have a clear vision for the future, to make clear choices with respect for democratic debate. Two years ago, we set out choices and directions. In this sense, we considered that job creation, the revival of activity, the gradual consolidation of public finances and the commitment to security, for which we have mobilised resources, should be the priorities on which we must work. There are many challenges. Sometimes it's true, it can give the feeling of a race against the clock. Last night, when I heard what had happened in Berlin, I once again felt that we should continue to work faster and even more energetically and to come together on these key points. Exercise is not simple. There's no way to beautify reality or make it all look miraculous or ideal. We need clarity, certainly, but we also need to be aware that the decisions we make are making results and that they improve the lives of our fellow citizens must be our ambition and the path on which we are mobilized. Thank you for your support, thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u111	Thank you, Prime Minister. If no one wishes to replicate anymore, then we can consider this chapter closed. We start immediately with the chapter Budget, Taxation and Science Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u112	Mr President, are not the ministers of the budget and finance speaking on what the opposition has said?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u113	They are programmed after this chapter. We just closed, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u114	A whole series of very specific questions have been asked about the fiscal trajectory, about tax revenues, about intentions, in terms of general policy, obviously backed up to the budget. I imagine we still have the right to explanations, to answers from the ministers. No?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u115	As you probably know, Mr Laaouej, the Ministers of Budget and Finance are programmed after the general chapter. I know we've been asking questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u116	Are you talking about the program law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u117	No. The two ministers were asked about the budget. There is also the chapter "Program Law". In my opinion, we can deal with it all at one time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u118	Mr President, as far as the organisation of work is concerned, Mr Laaouej in particular – he was not the only one – spoke about general policy, saying, like the Prime Minister: "He holds me to heart this; he holds me to heart that". But, besides that, it was precise at the Budget-Finance level by asking specific questions, inquiries. It makes no sense that he is now going up to the rostrum to repeat what he said earlier. It would still be much better for ministers to speak out and reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u119	Mrs. Onkelinx, I fully agree with you. I myself think that is the case; that seems to me to be the logic itself. I have here a list of speakers who would like to speak, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Van Rompuy, in relation to Finance and Budget. I know that Mrs Lalieux and Mr de Lamotte will speak on scientific policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u120	I withdraw as a speaker in the debate on that chapter. I have already said a number of things this morning and this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u121	That's noted. Mr. Gilkinet, you're registered. Do you agree to withdraw from the list of speakers in the section on finance and the budget, provided that ministers take the floor? [[Sentiment]] In that case, the Minister for the Budget will speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u122	Mr President, after a few weeks of discussions and debates, we have indeed come to the end today of the process leading to the adoption of the 2017 budget. Indeed, the vote approves more than one budget document and the budget. It is also the numerical transposition of the general policy pursued by the government since the beginning of the reigning period. This policy, as indicated in the government agreement, is aimed at restoring our public finances and strengthening our competitiveness, with additional employment as a result, which we have often talked about, just like the Prime Minister. In relation to the 2016 results, we must also take into account the asylum crisis and terrorist attacks. These have two types of impact: there are direct effects such as additional expenditure, but there are also economic consequences. International bodies say that the consequences of terrorist attacks, for example, are temporary, but they never said that there were no consequences for the economy, quite the contrary. We have to take into account the additional primary expenditure in 2016, but also the economic difficulties that the events have brought. Moreover, as I have already pointed out, tax revenues are lower than initially expected. However, we have provided a margin to meet precisely the difficulties. We also had to take this into account when drawing up the 2017 budget. For example, this budget reflects the government's desire to pursue the policy of economic recovery, even if there is only a minor improvement in the structural balance. For this reason, I repeat what I have already said in committee, and we have concentrated our efforts on achieving a budgetary improvement of more than 1.2%. The 2017 budget reflects at the same time the government's desire to control expenditure. In Belgium, expenditure, expressed as a percentage of GDP, is among the highest in the entire European Union, without any better service or social benefits, as the IMF recently concluded. It is with this aim in mind that the government has taken austerity measures in the 2017 budget. The previously approved savings were reconfirmed, particularly in health care. Mrs De Block will be able to explain it better, but I would like to say that two thirds of the EUR 900 million saved in health care has to do with previous decisions, which have not yet been implemented. As you have noted, additional austerity measures have also been taken in the areas of social expenditure and primary expenditure. These cost-saving measures ensure a more controlled evolution of expenditure. With the reorganisations, as the IMF also recommends, we will mainly reduce expenditure and ensure greater efficiency in public spending. The redesign is indeed part of this government's project, with the aim of making the work of public services more efficient. I have always said in our previous debates that the objective is qualitative and not budgetary. When you redesign through the eight journeys that have been... It makes you smile, Mr Van Hees, but I am from beginning to end in our committees. If you were careful, you'd know that we've always said that the main goal is better efficiency. If you feel that this is not a valid objective in itself, it is your business, but offering a better public service with the means available does not seem superfluous to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u123	That's not what's at stake. Doing quality, of course! Everyone is for improving the functioning of the administration. But, at first, you programmed $750 million to finance your tax shift. Then there were these repeated vaudevilles where we didn't know who to turn to for answers between Mr Vandeput, yourself, your predecessor Mr Jamar, Mr. Van Overtveld, all firing the ball. Obviously, given the lack of results and concrete elements, you have changed your shoulder rifle and abandoned this sad idea of having, by step, savings of up to 750 million to arrive at the setting up of journeys that still have a certain degree of abstraction and on which you try as much as possible to graft still concrete projects to reduce the sails of the savings to be made. You've come back to being reasonable all of a sudden. But at the first press conference, held by the Prime Minister to sell the pseudo tax shift, you told us about carabistyles! That's what happened. The baudrouch deflated. I'm sorry to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u124	Madam Minister, your speech makes me laugh. You place very high targets at the level of the amounts, and when it deflates, you come to tell us that it is not the amount that is important, it is the quality. This is laughable because you adapt your speech to the failure of this redesign.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u125	If I may contradict you, I've never had a speech other than this one. You can read again all the notes taken during our numerous budgetary debates in committee; I have never had a speech other than this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u126	Let's remember. When Ms Wilmès took office, from the outset, she said: "there is at least two billion euros missing for the financing of the tax shift". It was his first interview, which, I think, did not please Mr. Van Overtveldt, who said the opposite. I just wanted to recall this element of recent history. So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u127	Madam Secretary, I'd like to help you, too. In the recent debate, you have responded very explicitly to the opposition's questions as to whether the redesign is part of the tax shift. So you cannot tell us now that it was not a real budgetary issue but a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u128	With regard to the redesign and who has the leadership, in response to a recent question in plenary on this subject, I have simply read the notification. It makes it clear that it is Minister Vandeput who is in charge of this redesignation. That's the objective truth. Within this redesign, different routes can be driven more or less adequately depending on the subjects. For example, in the case of a redesignation in Health, it is not unusual for Mrs De Block to deal with it; in the case of a redesign on the best recovery, be it Mr. Van Overtveldt. I hear criticism. Then, when the opposite happens, I hear the opposite criticisms. We were criticized, in particular, by you, for assigning amounts to this redesign, saying that it was a good project – and it is a good project – and that, somewhere, we were taking an intrinsic value from it by assigning it unattainable returns. Today I see that the 750 million of the trajectory has been removed. We had lengthy discussions in committee. I've given you some explanations. It has been a little long, but I think everyone has come to the same conclusion, to the understanding that these yields are no longer part of the trajectory, with the exception of the 53.7 million that are detailed. Each new return resulting from this redesign will only improve the fiscal trajectory, as we have forecasted this path to zero, except for the $53 million we have identified together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u129	Minister of the Budget, you are responsible for the Budget. That is to say, the multi-year fiscal trajectory that you have presented to us, the famous table that we have asked for and obtained, provided from year to year new revenue or savings that would allow us to achieve a balance at some point in time, to finance policy choices such as the tax shift. The problem is that the realization of these savings, whether we contest them or not – we did it on the redesign, these new recipes seemed interesting to us on paper, but we challenged the mechanics – is not true. The fact that these budget projections, revenues or savings are not being verified creates a problem of balance. This problem is exponential. If, for the current year, we are told, for example for the transparency tax, the Cayman tax, more than 450 million euros, that the same is true for 2017 and 2018 and that only 100 million euros are collected, as a result, the first year, there is a shortage of 350 million, over two years, 700, over three years, that is to say by the end of the legislature, that is more than one billion revenue you have announced and that are not in the coffers. You take note of the fact that you will not be able to achieve certain savings, that revenue will not return. Therefore, your multi-year trajectory is worthless. You are creating a deficit and moving away from the balance of the budget; that is why I mentioned a denial of budgetary reality. You create budget deficits which, afterward, justify measures (which we denounce) in the field of social security, an inability to invest in the economy of tomorrow (which is important because we too want employment and quality employment) or the end of the Belgian state which is the objective of this government. That is where the problem lies! I ask you, the Minister of Budget, not only to take note of this, as a person who would not have a political capacity to influence the matter, but to ask your colleagues what they are proposing in terms of alternatives. What is the proposal of the N-VA (since Mr Vandeput did not do his job on the redesign) to compensate for this lack of budget which creates a budgetary hole which, tomorrow, will be the argument for the adoption of new catastrophic measures in social or economic terms? That is basically what I blamed you for earlier on in the rostrum. You make it clear that revenues were limited to $53 million when $100 million had been announced. But the 100 million problem lies in the 200 in 2017, 300 in 2018 and 400 in 2019. As the Court of Auditors points out, there is a snowball effect in terms of budgetary objectives. What answer are you going to provide to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u130	Mr Gilkinet, I don't know if you were in committee at that time. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u131	Mr. Gilkinet is present 99 times out of 100. We have the right to be absent and I will not blame him for not participating in the debate, far from it. Mr Gilkinet, that is not at all what I wanted to say! I am referring to the debate we held in committee. I thought we had exhausted the subject, but no matter what! I am indeed minister of the budget, not minister of the tax shift, nor of the redesignation. When I tell you that all of the revenues and expenses identified are in the multi-year period and that it extends until 2019, that revenues are identified for a total of $53.7 million on the redesign and derived structurally until 2019, and that the expected returns on the redesign are transferred to losses and profits (because that's what we talked about), we take our responsibilities. The budget that is tabled before you, with the multi-year projection, takes into account this differential. The Court of Auditors considers that this does not entail any risk. More generally, when it does not get enough information to take a definitive position and cannot be 100% certain, because the project is insufficiently advanced or the information is not clear enough, it speaks of a risk. This makes sense, as it does not have all the data that would guarantee a 100% certainty of performance. She doesn't say the performance won't be there. On the contrary, the Court of Auditors has told us that, as budgetary years progress, the quality of the information given to it has improved. She also noted that collaboration with my firm, the FPS Budget, the Finance firm and the FPS Finance was excellent. She even added, and I will refrain from any comparison with the Regions – but it was still stingy – about the multi-annual that some have tried to question so many times, and because of her experience with the federated entities, she could think that the federal budget was by far the least imprecise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u132	Minister of Budget, I appreciate a dialogue with you. In my view, there are two types of budget minister. In recent history, we have seen MM. Vande Lanotte, Van Rompuy – the brother of our committee chair – Chastel and Jamar. I don't know where to rank you yet, but I encourage you to be more Mr. Van Rompuy brother or Mr Vande Lanotte, that is to say, a minister of the budget who does not merely take note of the wrong duty done by the other ministers. Of course, you do not have the functional responsibility for the redesign and the many missed taxes of Mr. Van Overtveldt. However, if your colleagues do not fulfil their duties, there is a budgetary problem. Don't be a notary of the mistakes made by these! Secondly, the Court of Auditors states that certain measures in the original 2016 budget are not sufficiently justified and justified. That is why she expresses doubts. Her opinion is the same for 2017, but she adds that the revenue announced through these imprecise provisions has not returned. The Court of Auditors itself speaks of an exponential, multiplier effect, of a snowball effect. To follow the example of the redesign, 100 million savings were projected in 2016, 200 million savings in 2017, and so on. If, in 2016, we only reach 53 million, the differential will be 47 million for the year mentioned above, but it will be 147 million, all other things being equal, for the following year. Therefore, revenue that has not been received in the course of the year will be carried forward from year to year. The problem is thus likely to become more and more serious. This is how I come to my third element. Perhaps we can emerge from this controversy if you present us with an updated multi-year table showing how you will compensate, by the end of the legislature, for measures that have not had the desired effect. Mr Piedboeuf said earlier that we sometimes have great ambitions, but that reality brings us back to having a little less. Mr. Dispa paraphrased it. Either way, sometimes you can be wrong. Sometimes you have intentions and you can't do it! But, in this case, we need to be transparent about Parliament and present us with a new multi-year table up to 2019 to show us explicitly how you are going to achieve the desired balance. But you don't! All indicators show that there is a problem of fiscal balance related to a tax revenue problem. I apologize for drawing attention to this point. I do not wish to make any criticism ad hominem. As a human being, I get along well with the Minister of Finance. But it's often from his home that the problem comes. This has already been stressed several times. Minister of Budget, ask your colleagues to provide you with the information to present us with a new multi-year table! Mr President of the Committee on Finance, I invite you to put this item on the agenda at the beginning of next year so that we can discuss it on the basis of this table. As a group, Ecolo-Green used it as a tool to build our alternative budget. How has it evolved? Why did it disappear from the budget tables? You provided us with a very good tool at the beginning of the legislature. Don't lose sight of him! In any case, as far as we are concerned, we do not lose sight of him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u133	As far as redesign is concerned, I think it is very clear from the explanations given by the Budget Minister in committee and confirmed today and on the basis of the answers given by the Minister of Finance to the question I asked him last week. The redesign is initially 750 million euros. In 2016, it is in fact 25 million euros: 15 million for the best revenue recovery and 10 million for the head of the Régie des Bâtiments. This is 25 million euros in 2016 and a consulting fee of 10 million euros on the basis of the response of the Minister of Finance. In 2017, it is 53 million euros. And then, beyond that, in the multi-year trajectory, there's nothing left. That is what the Minister of Budget explained. One can understand this because she herself had defended the idea that a redesign of the redesign was needed. In conclusion, Mr President, the redesign is a new illustration of the maxim of the MR: you have to dream very high to achieve very low!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u134	Mr President, I certainly do not want to repeat the debate, but since it is always said that the Court of Auditors did not actually say that and that the Court of Auditors thinks the budget is very good, I would like to repeat a number of quotes from the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors says literally: "The impact on the public finances of measures in the medium and long term is very short and is therefore not sufficiently verifiable. This applies, among other things, to the tax shift. Although this is substantial in budgetary terms, the multiannual framework does not contain any further information." Furthermore, the Court of Auditors says that there is in any case an overestimate of the revenue for 2017 - the snowball effect that Mr Gilkinet is talking about - because it is based on revenue from 2016, which has not been achieved either. So, if you say that the Court of Auditors' report is very positive, then our reading of it is different. I understand very well, Madam Minister, that the tax shift is in the budget, but the problem is that the shift is different. At first you said that the tax shift would be financed, among other things, by the redesign and the caiman tax, but you did not get this income, so you had to go elsewhere. And where did you get them? Social security. That's our problem. We are not saying that this tax shift is not in that budget, but we are saying that it has not been a shift and that the funding, as it was originally intended, is not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u135	Mr President, the postponement of the errors found in 2016 over the 2017 fiscal year is undoubtedly one of the most important elements of fragility in the Minister's fiscal policy. That is why we need to pay particular attention, or else it will draw, throughout the legislature, those balls which will be more and more numerous, given that they accumulate from year to year and that they obey the budget path. Madam Minister, you are referring to the Court of Auditors by minimizing its interpretation of the facts. However, attention must be paid to what it says: "The FPS Finances has resumed the budgetary impact decided in the previous conclaves, even if there are serious indications that these measures will not lead to expected revenues, in particular due to an incorrect assessment of the impact during the previous budgetary control", i.e. in 2016. You report the errors of 2016 in 2017 with your authority as Minister of Budget. That is why the Court of Auditors is helping you. You have the opportunity to tell your colleagues, with the support of the Prime Minister, that the figures that have been communicated are not accurate and that you are asking for concrete and tangible elements. In the end, it is you who will have to report if we were faced with an excessive deficit in 2016 and possibly for future years. Like the Court of Auditors, this is also the opinion of the European Commission. Try to take advantage of the 2017 adjustment to ask all your colleagues, those who are redesigning and those who are making tax revenue estimates, to present you with serious figures. It's about your credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u136	With regard to the tax shift that is part of the budget and aware that the budget is not the tax shift, the Minister of Finance indicated during the commissions that he would present them with an updated table. I do not want to encroach on my colleague's prerogatives, but, just as a budget is drawn up and revised in budgetary conclaves, depending on the reality on the ground, depending on the evolution of macroeconomic parameters, there is no reason why the tax shift should not be the same because some revenues should be reanalysed in the light of the current situation. The Minister of Finance is committed to returning to committee with updated funding from the tax shift. Mr Gilkinet, I have the impression that you understand that when we take 53 million structurally for the redesign, we take our loss evenly over time T, so over the year 2017 compared to the 100 million we had to have. No! The loss is integrated throughout the multi-year period. So, as far as this particular point of the redesign is concerned, there is no increased risk over the multiannual, since this is part of the schemes and the multiannual that you have been presented with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u137	There's a pass trick. We're introduced to the tax shift by saying it's 100% funded. Then, the following year, it was said that the revenues that were promised as compensation for the tax cuts granted were not there. But it is no longer the head of the tax shift operation that is accountable to the government, to the minister of the budget and then to Parliament, it is the government as a whole that is facing a budget deficit. And then Mrs De Block was told, who had positioned herself very clearly in the press to say that we would no longer touch health care, that she must make an effort! I'm sorry. Politically, in such cases, it is the minister responsible for miscalculation, bad estimates or possibly his political family who must find the solution. If you, as Minister of Budget, do not require this minister or his or her political family to do so, you make a political mistake and carry the problem over to other policies and other political families that are members of your government and to all citizens! What does a tax shift mean? A reduction in taxes offset by new revenue. The new revenues announced to finance the tax shift are not there! And it is not within the framework of the tax shift operation, which is part of your budget, that you find the solutions. You carry the problem over to the entire federal state budget and therefore to the general public. What was to be new resources becomes savings, and in health care in addition, with all the consequences that have already been described. There may be savings that are sensible but, overall, it is something linear that will limit the access of some of our sick fellow citizens to the ability to treat themselves, which we do not accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u138	If I understand correctly, it's very simple. In 2016 a revenue of 400 million is registered for the redesign. The Minister for the Budget detects that the amount of 400 million cannot be reached and reduces it to 56 million, which it includes in the 2017 budget and the multiannual plan. The balance is EUR 344 million. What is the government doing against that? Let me give you one example. The government decides to raise the withholding tax to 30% and to generate new income from it, as you wish, from assets. This can be used to finance the tax shift. That's what the Court of Auditors said. However, in a number of cases such as the stock exchange tax or the caiman tax, it states that because this tax does not have a separate dragonflying on the bill, no amounts can be allocated to it. That does not mean, however, that they are not there. That is the debate we have had in committee. Let us be intellectually honest, that is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u139	Perhaps one more word on the multi-year trajectory. I would like to recall, as the Prime Minister did, that we are still the first government to make these multi-year projections. It does allow us to see how things are changing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u140	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u141	It's been since the six-pack! But at last! The multi-annual table is in the general statement of the budget. Did you see him? He's in there. What painting are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u142	I'm talking about the table in A3 format. Exciting! He was very readable. Thanks again to the Ecolo-Green Group for asking for it, but above all to the government for transmitting it to us. This table includes new revenues that lead this government to the path of balance. It has savings. The redesign has just been mentioned at length. It turns out after x work months that the original intentions are not met. Unrealized savings must be offset by other savings, unrealized income, and other income. Do you have an updated chart? Does this multi-year table exist in a version available to Parliament? I think it would be a very useful tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u143	Mr Gilkinet, if I understand you correctly, the budget should be tabled in Parliament, with the tables updated each time. A table tax shift should also be put back to the vote. I'm sorry. This is the federal state budget. It has thousands of pages. If it doesn't suit you, I regret it. That's how it works. The Minister of Finance is committed to returning to the Budget and Finance Committee to discuss more specifically the financing of the tax shift. He will do it in time and in time, not now, not today, you will understand. I'm sorry. I'm the Minister of Budget. We're voting a budget. There's the expenses. There are the Ways and Means. There's the general briefing. Doing more, I think it's going to be complicated. I'm back on track. I repeat to you, of course, that the projections contained therein reflect all the revenue and total expenditure, including the tax shift. With regard to reaching balance in 2018, I can only repeat what I told you in committee and which was also repeated by the Prime Minister. Each time, this principle of balance will be assessed by the government, but also by the federated entities, when the next stability programme will be drawn up in April on the basis of a proposal from the Supreme Council of Finance. This one will tell us, as he did the last time, the path we can take. They will either do so to meet the desire for a balance in 2018 or to meet the requirements of the European Commission. That is how the Supreme Council of Finance told us, when the stability programme was last drawn up, that we could actually postpone the search for balance in 2019, while respecting the rules of the European Commission. What the government will do is simple. He will wait, as he does every time, for the report of the Senior Finance Council which will tell him what his options are. He will decide at that time. I will make one final comment on Defence, although I think the Prime Minister has responded to that. We also talked about it in committee. Just one point of detail: it is not abnormal, given the nature of the purchases that must be made in the context of the development of a strategic vision for Defence, to leave the framework, especially since it was decided in 2001 to purchase the A400M, which will be transferred to it now. What is the reason to talk about property transfer? The payment of invoices is still different from the dry impact. The dry impact, which counts for the European Commission and analysts, will only be felt under the current legislature, i.e. at least 15 years after the decision. No one finds this regrettable; it is part of the long-term visions that we must have in this type of policy, given their nature. I will also make an incise on the Court of Auditors' report, which actually says that from 2020 there will be a transfer of ownership and therefore a dry impact - I would like to - and that this is not foreseen in the multiannual framework. In this respect, the Court of Auditors is right. This is not foreseen in the multiannual framework, because it ends in 2019. So, CQFD, this obviously comes out of the box, since the framework is until 2019. [[Applause]] [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to repeat too much of what the Prime Minister and Mrs Wilmès have already said. Before going into some specific aspects of the income, I make a few general introductory remarks. Of course, we would have wanted to achieve more in 2016 in the budgetary field than we have done. One of the main reasons for this is that we have not made it easy for ourselves. What do I mean by that? When we look at the evolution of expenditure and revenue, over the period 2014-2017, we see as a percentage of gross domestic product that expenditure decreased by 1.9 percentage points and revenue by 1 percentage point. The previous period, being the period 2011-2014, we had an increase in expenditure by 0.7 percentage points and an increase in revenue by 1.7 percentage points. Economically, there is a fundamental difference between the two approaches. That difference has an impact on the economic environment, on job creation, on investment and also on business confidence, as you saw yesterday with consumer confidence. This approach is fundamentally different, but it is also much more difficult, because two parameters need to be applied downwards in order to achieve the same result for the budget. And because of the economic repercussions of the other approach, therefore, the approach we advocate also has a much greater structural impact. With regard to budget expenditure and revenue in general and budget 2016 more specifically, a first general remark on this point is that it is very difficult to correctly estimate a line by line round 150 billion in revenue, consisting of a whole category of components or sub-revenue, if you would like to call them. That's even impossible. An estimate is and remains an estimate. A good example is what we see in excise duties this year. Overall, we will be very close in this area and at least close to the amount we have proposed. Underneath, however, we see that excise duties on petrol and diesel, for example, have increased more than we expected in terms of revenue, whereas excise duties on tobacco and alcohol are less than we had intended. I will come back to that later. A second reflection: what is the reality of 2016 and of the effective deterioration we see in the budgetary outcome? I can very simply refer to the figures of the European Commission contained in the Stability Pact report. At the beginning of the year, the Commission assumed that revenue would be 50,8% of GDP. In the recent report a few weeks ago, the Commission says it will be 50.8% effective. In other words, as far as income is concerned, we will find out where the Commission expected us to come out at the beginning of the year. At the same time, the Commission notes that expenditure rose from 53.4% to 53.9%. It is therefore clear that the deterioration in the budgetary outcome is essentially a result of developments on the expenditure side, which the Prime Minister and Mr Wilmès have already addressed in detail. A third general remark can be made after reading the Court of Auditors' report. In its report, the Court of Auditors does raise questions about a number of revenue, but nowhere does it say that there was no revenue. Not at all! She insists on good follow-up, what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u145	MM. Dispa and Laaouej wish to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u146	Mr Minister, you have just said that the Court of Auditors considers that there is a good follow-up to the tax measures. I have before me the Court of Auditors' report on the implementation of the 2015 budget, in which the Court questions the follow-up to the tax measures adopted in 2015. The Court states: "The Court of Auditors has not obtained any information from the administration on the implementation of these measures. It also noted that the administration does not have a system of indicators to monitor the budgetary implementation of the new tax measures." That seems totally contradictory to what you just said. This is more consistent with what the Prime Minister said earlier because he had the correction to point out that there was indeed a problem of tracking the tax measures decided by the government. The Court of Auditors affirms this in black and white.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u147	Mr President, there is the Court of Auditors and the European Commission. When she says: "Caiman Tax, don't hold 460 million; 100 million is a maximum"; when she says: "Tax regularization, don't put 250 million but rather 125"; when on the Sicafi, same thing, she says: "Don't put 250, put 125", etc. We could go on. Do you not think, in particular to help your colleague from the budget who, after that, will have to report on the overall trajectory, that we have to listen to the European Commission? It is she who will finally appreciate whether you are in excessive deficit or not. If she finds that you have not followed her recommendations, you will fill in your file; you will show that you are not following the advice she gives you. She may not be inclined to be kind to you. Enough alarms are set in motion to encourage you to reduce the wing of your tax forecast. Unfortunately, you don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u148	Mr Laaouej, how do you explain when the European Commission notes that at the beginning of the year the revenue must be 50.8 % of GDP and that at the end of the year this figure is achieved? The explanation is simple: of the €115 billion in revenue, parts produce more and others produce less. At the beginning of the year, the Commission was talking about 50.8 % of GDP and at the end of the year, it found that this percentage was actually reached. That's undeniable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u149	On this point too, you do magic! We're talking about net tax revenues and you're talking about tax revenues in relation to GDP. But when you take tax revenues in relation to GDP, there are two variables. GDP also changes according to the result at the beginning of the year. Mr Finance Minister, your new Cayman tax will finally allow income generated abroad by Belgian citizens to be taxed. This represents tens of billions of euros. Indeed, when I first asked you about this, you told me that it would amount to 450 million euros. This figure is contested by the Court of Auditors. But you confirm it. Anyway, what I'm interested in is that we're pretty close to that amount at the end of the year. Indeed, this is potentially a measure aimed at ensuring tax justice. The same applies to a series of measures taken in isolation. We quoted the Sicafi, the diamond tax. When you are asked questions that bother you, you answer by advancing an overall figure that cannot be interpreted. This refers to the percentage of tax revenue in relation to GDP. But when it came to this, we did not talk about more or less just measures. VAT affects everyone. All citizens, regardless of their income. It is quite easily controllable. A tax such as the Cayman tax is still a way of ensuring that the highest incomes, the incomes of those who can afford to invest money abroad, contribute a little to reducing the budgetary difficulties we are experiencing here. And you are now saying that you have not achieved the desired results. It's very serious! That's really disturbing. You must therefore provide justifications to Parliament, not by responding with global statistics, but by giving figures for each measure. And admit that you have a problem with your tax projections. The measures that you have presented to us have systematically fallen next to the plate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u150	Mr Minister, I would like to make the point once again. The European Commission's report concludes for 2016 that: "On the basis of this analysis, the Commission has concluded for 2016 that Belgium is significantly different from the planned budget path towards MTO. This is largely due to incorrect estimates. For 2017, the figures of the budgetary plan are in line with the requirements," you also said just now "both in terms of the structural balance and in terms of expenditure benchmarking, but since the strong deviation in 2016 is not sufficiently overtaken in 2017, Belgium is significantly different from the fiscal path in 2017." The Court of Auditors also points out that a number of assumptions of 2016, which were not met, are based on a number of assumptions for 2017. The European Commission adds that this is not corrected by flexibility, asylum and so on. As a result, we have a problem:Belgium considered to be at risk of non-compliance. Now saying that according to the European Commission and the Court of Auditors there is no problem, there is a little left.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u151	Mr Minister, you put the argument out of the common pot to us, saying: "It is no big deal if the estimates here or there are not good and there is less than expected for different measures if overall revenues increase". No! Minister, this reasoning could be accepted if you were at a balanced budget. But you have a structural deficit of 2.2% to absorb in the next three years, counting still 2016. This means that you need a surplus of revenue and, if you don't, you're going to have to make a surplus of savings. So you need each euro for each estimate of each of your new measures. Add to that that, on the main items, the large tax bases, you have at each time massive declines compared to the forecasts: in household discount, in VAT, in excise duties and attention to the revenue from corporate tax which is always a very uncertain dynamic. This is the reason why you have this recurring and structural problem of 2 billion differences between initial estimates and end-of-year achievements. You can't just say: "The European Commission shows me that I have an increase in the common pot". No! That won't be enough for you. Pay attention to this argument!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u152	Minister, you said that you did not hear me say anything about the revenue side, so I will quote that part to answer your question. The European Commission says: "The deficit is on the revenue side, partly due to the decline in revenue, but also partly due to the tax shift package." So it has to do with the tax shift again. A number of measures do not have the expected revenue. My fellow Members have already referred to, for example, the Cayman tax, because Europe believes only 100 instead of the 460, but 125 instead of the 250, and real estate companies 100 instead of the 250. You claim that the European Commission does not say anything about the revenue side. Well, I have just quoted what the European Commission is saying about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u153	Mr. Chairman, I found the Prime Minister's intervention relatively intellectually honest about the issue of predictability of tax revenues. But objectively, the Minister of Finance's remarks are at the opposite end of the Prime Minister's position. If you do not believe the Court of Auditors, Minister, if you do not believe the European Commission, do you give a little credit to your own services? I quote the Court of Auditors' report on page 15: "The FPS Finance's study and documentation service has told the government that over the last three years the tax forecasts have been overly optimistic. Indeed, on average, and on an annual basis, the tax return had been about 2.1 billion euros lower than the original estimates." It is still difficult, after that, to come and pretend that there is no problem on the revenue side.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u154	Everything I have said in my previous speeches does not mean that nothing should be done on the revenue side. I myself, on the basis of an analysis by the FPS Finance Department, insisted on the installation of a buffer. The estimates of revenue appear to be systematically different in the upward direction. That buffer is subscribed in proportion to EUR 739 million. At the moment, a task force is working hard to improve that prophecy. So don't put it in my mouth that there is no need to tackle and improve on the revenue side. My point is this: because the revenue battery consists of a large number of different parts, one can always pick out a number of things that are just a little more or just a little less than envisaged. First of all, we have to look at totality. That's my point. That, for example, with regard to the follow-up of the Cayman tax, more things should happen, I agree. Mr Gilkinet, I would point out to you that the analysis that led us to this amount of $460 million was based on an initial analysis by the National Bank that provided financial data on the structures as well as a sufficiently thorough public analysis of the FPS Finances. The latter confirmed to the government the validity of its estimates when preparing the last budget. It is not possible to verify this, because there is no "Caiman" line in the recipes, which we will try to clarify. However, it cannot be said that there is no "Caiman" recipe. The amounts cannot be directly verified. Nevertheless, you cannot say that this 460 million comes from nowhere, because we have based ourselves on an initial analysis of the National Bank and then on a thorough analysis of the FPS Finance which is public.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u155	It's a little technical, but it's interesting! I remember perfectly asking you the question and I totally remember the calculation. You told me, I believe, about more than 50 billion euros in funds from Belgian citizens placed abroad. Three countries were missing: Switzerland, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the United States. It can be estimated that this is more. You estimated a relative income with an interest rate related to these more than 50 billion; you applied a discount and based on your calculations, you estimated the sum of the funds invested at more than 450 million euros. That's the National Bank's reasoning you explained to me. But for this to work, your Cayman tax system must be strong and Belgian citizens are obliged to declare their offshore deposit income and there are no new loopholes. When you technically presented the text of the Cayman tax, the Council of State and the opposition made remarks in order to verify the feasibility of the tax. Your intentions were shared but technically, is it solid enough? Today, given that the promised revenues were well included in the calculations of funding from other policies, the scheme is not strong enough. The reasoning, the calculation remains. But if the mechanics that you have put in place and for which you have responsibility do not work, there is the problem and there is your political responsibility. Secondly, it is really important that tax returns initially have a much greater statistical capacity to assess policies. We have had an opportunity to discuss this with the Court of Auditors and it is really important to be able to assess the impact of public and tax policies. I have heard your openness on this subject and will check its results, so that we can debate on figures and not on principles. In fact, systematically, when you advertise revenues, they don't come and you have to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u156	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, you are well aware that we are constantly looking at the structures of the Cayman tax and, at the end of last year, we have made a further adjustment to close some doors. We study it continuously. Unfortunately, for the time being, we cannot see what this brings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u157	Minister, you would need a buffer for the performance of the new measures. We have a decline of two and a half years and we see that on many of the new measures you have taken, there is each time a revenue problem that is not on the table. The opposite almost never happens and it would be helpful if you had a buffer to estimate new recipes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u158	Mr Laaouej, that is exactly what we have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u159	No, because the buffer you have taken is far below what the Finance FPS asks you to do, finds a gap in the overall recipe, which does not allow to identify the reasons for this difference which may be related to the dynamics of the bases, to economic factors of the economy, to a decline in domestic demand, to the price of oil, etc. You have put in place a buffer that we think is insufficient; I would ask you for an additional buffer compared to the measures you are taking where there is a great elasticity. See what happened with the excise duties! It is a box of several hundred million euros. This means that, by 2016, it is too late, but that you will soon have to take action for 2017, otherwise the gap will continue to widen and your structural deficit will worsen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u160	We've registered a buffer. Secondly, the task force responsible for reviewing these aspects deals with this. On the basis of its conclusions, the Government will take a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u161	Then we can conclude the discussion of the chapter? In this chapter, we have to listen to Mrs Lalieux's speech at the address of Secretary of State Mrs Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u162	We will obviously talk about a policy much less than the budget and finances at the federal state level but important for our state. Colleagues, Madam Secretary of State, we have taken the time, together with my opposition colleagues, in committee, to study very thoroughly your general policy brief on scientific policy. You are constant in one thing, Madam Secretary of State: like last year, we have seen no answer to the dozens and dozens of questions asked on a series of subjects for which you are responsible. It is true that I recalculated them with my colleague Daniel Senesael, who was with me in committee. We asked you no less than 24 specific questions. We both read the report correctly with our collaborators: no answer to these 24 specific questions! If I do the exercise here again, I think I'm going to waste my time and waste his time in the assembly and that's not my goal. So I'm not going to ask you the questions. As a result, we will draw our own conclusions on your non-responses. With regard to the actions you have already carried out and which are known, we will now comment on them. They don't look good for the government, Madam Secretary of State! First, regarding the Department of Scientific Policy, some will speak of calamitous management. This has been widely read in the press. In all honesty, I do not believe that this is a calamitous management, Madam Secretary of State. I believe that we are facing a methodical and thoughtful destruction of excellence at the federal level. I want to point out that this year, after a series of decisions deemed totally illegal by the courts and tribunals - you are not the only one at this level of government - you have successfully achieved one of your objectives: the removal of the scientific mission of the polar station Princess Elizabeth. It's a first since the creation of the Polar Station eight years ago. As Mr Senesael said in committee, the absence of a mission at the polar station is obviously a serious political failure. The government has failed in its primary and fundamental mission of enabling scientists to work. Today, they cannot and we know how important scientific research is for Belgium and for the future of the environment and the world. When we know that the Secretary of State has not yet appointed the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat and, despite legal requirements, refuses to table the budget of the Polar Secretariat in the House, we can no longer be content with speaking of risky management. Madam Secretary of State, there is, in your head, with the complicity of all the parties of this government and of the MR in particular, a systematic desire to destroy what is the federal jewel for the science and international influence of Belgium! Even today, the news is sadly correct. The newspaper L'Echo not only tells us that the director of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts has filed a complaint against you for harassment, but we also learn that you still refuse to appoint two directors of these museums. Here too, we break, we stop working, we prevent federal institutions from functioning. The only thing you have decreed for our museums is to put yourself in the place of the management of the Museum of Modern Art, of authority, without any modesty or without any knowledge. The Museum of Modern Art is a jewel. We've had renowned artists all over the world. You decree on your own, without consultation, because you know things, to make a Museum of Modern Art in 2,400 m2. At the time, I had obtained an agreement with Mr Verherstraeten, Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Courard and the previous government as a whole, and no decision of the previous government came back on this agreement. So you're hurting another project. You know that it takes at least 5,000 square meters to develop a museum of modern art worthy of this name, which will welcome tourists and visitors, not only from Belgium but from all over the world. You decree that they will go in 2,400 square meters, without any other form of trial. One of the exhibitions you have not inaugurated – you never inaugurate any – Moderniteit à la belge (I would say i à la N-VA), demonstrates this today: the place you leave them will be such that two-thirds to three-quarters of the works will remain in a cellar and will not be shown to the public. It is shameful for these artists, it is shameful for the deployment of museums in Brussels and Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u163	Mrs Lalieux, I can hear you well, and I don't want to argue too much. You say the works will stay in the cellar. Who put the works in the cellar, Mrs. Lalieux? Who put an end to all that this Museum of Modern Art represented for Belgium and for Brussels? Who said there would no longer be a Museum of Modern Art in Brussels, Mrs. Lalieux? Who chose the place, in the cellars, where these extraordinary works were placed, Madame Lalieux?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u164	I'll answer you, Mr. Miller. I'm not gonna talk instead of a director. You know that at some point, you had to present the "end-of-century" collections. To this end, the Magritte Museum and the Late Century Museum were opened. I was just going to point out that the MR, in previous governments, has given considerable support to all scientific policy, the development of museums, the development of the polar station and the space agency, all that this government is demolishing today. Indeed, these works were stored in the cellar at some point, but with a replacement project. The government had asked the city of Brussels to purchase a new 7,000-square-metre building for the redeployment of museums. If I have to talk about the city of Brussels, excuse me for doing so! We got an agreement. In a year and a half, the budget was realized at the city level. We bought the building. The federal commitment was up to $1.2 million. We made a deal. Why couldn't we attribute it, Mr. Miller? Because this government has reversed its decision. Not even the whole government! A minister alone, because no new decision has ever been made in the head of government. Very beautiful exhibitions are held today in this remarkable building, of which everyone says it should remain a museum. This building will obviously not welcome the works of the federal. The work planned by Mrs Sleurs will continue for many years. I'm afraid this Museum of Modern Art never comes into being. Mr. Miller, this is the responsibility of the current government. An alternative project could be developed. I think that this government could have inaugurated a museum of modern art worthy of this name in the heart of Brussels, with all the works that would have been released. I call it a waste, Mr. Miller. A big mess!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u165	Mrs Lalieux, we are not going to argue. We will also hear Ms. Sleurs' answers. I think you and I really want this Museum of Modern Art to come into being. Given the late hour, we're not going to fight too much. It seems to me that if, at some point, there was a replacement project, it was because mistakes were made leading to the closure of the Museum of Modern Art. I'm not even talking about the director's responsibility. I'm going to stay at the political level. I believe that the political responsibility actually goes back to the previous government, and in particular to the one responsible for the scientific policy of our country, which had committed itself to reopening the museum and bringing solutions through a general plan, namely Mr Magnette. As you know, Mr. Courard himself said that the Magnette Plan was not acceptable, was impossible to implement. It was Mr. Courard himself who said: "I close the case and I will close it and see what it will become". That's what happened, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u166	Mr. Miller, you're rewriting the story. I was around the table when the big deal was concluded. The policy of redeployment of museums had indeed been made by Mr. Magnette. At one point, I was around the table to negotiate with the CD&V here, with the PS and with the MR. Even Mr Reynders was in favour of this solution, I recall, and he supported it at the federal government level. There was an alternative solution. She was found, the money was there. You can never deny that this government has made it a vertical classification, as well as our future Museum of Modern Art by putting all these artists and all these works to a standstill. Here you go, Mr. Miller. You said, "You have your readings." We may be making a political analysis of it, but I can assure you that there is a notification from the government, that I can bring you back, if you want, to show you that this museum could exist very quickly in the heart of Brussels and put all these artists back in the spotlight. Do you want to continue the debate? It's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u167	Mr President, with my intervention, I wanted to show that this problem, to which we are all sensitive, does not date from this government or from the presence of the N-VA in this government. This is a much older problem and to which the PS did not provide a solution when managing the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u168	Mr Miller, I shall end with a simple question. Why was not the agreement between the previous government and the Régie des Bâtiments, the Scientific Policy, the Museums, which had received the approval of Mr. Reynders, then vice-first in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, executed by this government? I would point out that in the City of Brussels, we continued to implement it correctly, since we made it clear – it was systematically in the Culture budget, but I am not going to expose the City's budget – a million and a half. In addition, even the contractor has been designated to do our job. Similarly, the working groups continued to reflect on the renovation of the former Vanderborght Stores. So we are witnessing a real waste. It will be even larger if we want to install this museum of modern art in 2,400 square meters. Then oppose the plan of Secretary of State Sleurs! Indeed, its solution is inadequate. I shall now turn to the Space Agency. I guess we're going to rewrite history here too. From the Federal Agency, it will become an inter-federal agency. This means that you are going to over-communitarize a debate that should only be economic and scientific. The government is about to establish an expensive, unnecessary and inefficient gas plant. It is not the Socialists who say it, but the Court of Auditors. We also think so, but as you accuse us of skewed reading these questions, I would like to inform you that this is the opinion of the Court of Auditors. I understand that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Budget no longer give any credit to the Court of Auditors. Therefore, I imagine neither the Secretary of State. In short, the gas plant intended by the Secretary of State will only be able to paralyse the decision-making process. I recall that the current process, which involves a small team of BELSPO collecting the satisfaction of all actors and all sectors, offers Belgium one of the best returns on investment in Europe. We know where the Secretary of State is going, because we discussed it in committee: she wants to reach a distribution key to weaken Wallonia's capacity in the space industry, which represents one of its flagships. What is true for the Polar Station, the Museums of Fine Arts and the Space Agency is true for the rest of the scientific policy led by this government. Despite any logic of efficiency, the government isolating the expertise of the departments and putting an end to the coherent management of the Federal Science Policy. This methodical and thoughtful destruction, which I have just described, does indeed pursue an objective. It should not be forgotten that this Belgium of excellence and cultural differences is not compatible with a nationalist discourse and exclusion carried by a separatist party. In other words, for the N-VA, breaking the Federal Science Policy is a necessity in order to align reality with its discourses. It is for this reason that this government, despite the objections of the first concerned, i.e. the entire sector, dismantles the BELSPO administration and stifles federal institutions and museums and prepares the regionalization of space. I recall the terms of your general policy note: "collection". This means that we are going to make an inventory to effectively transfer everything we can to the Regions. Colleagues, I cannot help but regret the complicity of the Liberals who, yesterday, were actively involved, Mr Miller, in the emergence of this strong Federal Science Policy, but who are now collaborating in its disappearance. Thank you. This is really the description of a waste that is done with this general policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u169	Mr Dispa also asked for the floor in this chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u170	Mr President, since Mrs Sleurs is no longer in charge of the fight against tax fraud, I no longer have the opportunity to meet her, but I would like to speak in this debate on behalf of my colleague, Michel de Lamotte, to send two messages: one to the Secretary of State and the other to the Prime Minister. The first point concerns the reform of BELSPO. I would like to say, on behalf of Michel de Lamotte and the cdH group, that, having taken note of the Secretary of State's willingness to reform the scientific policy, we have some questions about the effectiveness of this reform and concerns about the ulterior thinking of reform. We will therefore remain extremely vigilant with regard to the modalities of the reform, so that the Federal Science Policy – this is our concern – really remains an example of the added value that can be achieved by concerted action at the level of Federal Belgium. I would like to ask Mrs Sleurs to be more federative about these projects and to ensure that the widest possible consultation is carried out in a sector which really requires it. The second point, Mr President, concerns the polar station. Now I'm going to be tougher. 2016 will have been a very sad year for polar research: the government has not appointed the members of the Polar Secretariat's strategic council; it has not joined the budget of the Polar Secretariat at the time when it is voting on its entire 2017 budget; it does not respect court decisions; finally, it manages to cancel the 2016–2017 scientific mission altogether, resulting in a significant waste of public money. The government bears responsibility for all these failures, for lack of vision, responsibility and goodwill. I would therefore like to appeal to the Prime Minister to take matters into his own hands and appoint a mediator because, in this conflict, I am not sure that the Secretary of State is still in a position to act to facilitate negotiations and to bring about a new partnership with the Polar Foundation. That is the wish I wish to express: that the State should rise above conflicts rather than feed them. The Prime Minister would be well advised to worry about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u171	Mrs Lalieux, Mr Dispa, we have often had the opportunity to discuss your vision and your opinion. I know that you consider that we are systematically dismantling the science policy. But of course, I do not agree. Eleven million euros were reinvested last year to purchase equipment and start digitalization programs to meet the needs of museums and other federal institutions. As regards scientific programmes, the EDF-tWIN has been launched; 125 researchers will be mobilised next year; 12 million are earmarked for scientific programmes each year. You're saying the space agency will be communalized. That's your opinion. But it will be modernised and made more competitive. The situation in Europe has changed. We must be able to compete to preserve the space industry, which is so important for Belgium. As far as museums are concerned, this is the first time in years that a master plan has been planned for renovation. For BELSPO, the audit was completed yesterday and the government is working together to make it dependent on the SPF Economy. An appointment is scheduled for the beginning of January with all the directors. Maybe one of them won't be able to respond to my invitation, but that's not my choice. On this occasion, the modernization of the management of the ten federal institutes will be discussed. On the other hand, the two Director's functions, which have not been in question for years, have not been fulfilled. That was already the case before I took up my duties. It should not be said that I am responsible for this situation. On the other hand, what I am saying is that it is not necessary to appoint these two directors, since these functions have not been held for years and things are working normally. I recall that these functions have not been fulfilled since before 2014. Moreover, in terms of reform, these appointments are not really a guarantee of efficiency at the moment. That's how I get to the polar base. The mission is actually suspended. Indeed, the Council of State has indicated that there is a problem of legality in amending the Royal Decree. In doing so, I had no choice but to suspend the mission. But we are looking for a solution so that we can continue scientific research on the polar base as quickly as possible. So be certain, Mr. Dispa, that I am looking for a solution for the latter. As for the reform of BELSPO, I will conduct negotiations with all the directors, the aim being to modernize the scientific policy together. As far as the Polar Secretariat is concerned, you say that the budget is included in the basic allocation of more than three million euros. You know, moreover, that in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of the Law of 16 March 1954, if the budget is not ready by 31 October, it is possible to include it provisionally in the BELSPO budget. The budget for next year is therefore foreseen. You're accusing me of refusing, but the budget is set for next year to conduct scientific research in Antarctica. The discussion remains the same: your opinion is that I am doing a dismantling, a destruction. I reply that this is a change, a modern management that has been misconceived for years. That is the purpose of the reform. The government agreement states that the collections must remain together. The masterplan also concerns the renovation of modern art collections. You seem astonished at the time it takes! Indeed, it takes years. Now, the masterplan must be implemented since nothing has been done for so many years. The government wants to modernize the Science Policy so that it can have a future, which was not possible with the policy carried out before 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u172	Mr President, Mrs Sleurs and I will never agree, but the facts are there. When there is a petition with as many signatures, from universities and sectors as different as space, polar, culture, Mrs. Sleurs, you and this government can't be right against everyone. I understand you're defending your policy. It's your choice, that of the N-VA. I have heard you for years in the Committee on the Economy, asking Mr Courard and Mr Magnette why they are investing in scientific policy or culture, whereas they are regionalised matters. You said there should no longer be a budget for that. That was your speech. Now you translate your speech into actions from within. And indeed, in 2019, you will have come to your end: all the institutions will be completely ruined, rotten and will no longer exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip146x.u173	Colleagues, as announced this morning, we are now making half an hour's suspension to give the services the opportunity to make the necessary technical adjustments. I propose to resume our work at around 8:30 p.m., with the Social Affairs chapter, in the presence of Minister De Block and Minister Borsus. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday 20 December 2016 at 8.30 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 20 December 2016 at 8.30 p.m.
