ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u1	Mr President, Minister, in your political orientation statement, you stated in the section on arms that you wanted to adapt the conditions for the transport of weapons imposed on hunters. As a reminder, to be in order, hunters must meet five very strict cumulative conditions. Thus, the weapon must be unloaded; it must be rendered inoperative by a secure locking device; it must be placed in a locked case (or suitcase); if carried by car, the cases must be placed in the locked trunk; the vehicle itself cannot remain unattended. Minister, more than a year after the announcement of this measure, allow me to ask for some clarification on the status of this issue. When will the announced relaxation be effective? To what extent do you plan to change these conditions? Are you considering a consultation with hunter associations as part of this review?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u2	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, your question is very topical. My firm has drafted a draft royal decree amending the Royal Decree of 24 April 1997 determining the security conditions for the storage, storage and collection of firearms and ammunition. As required by Article 37 of the Arms Act, this text was submitted to the Consultative Council on Arms, which met on 21 January 2016 in a very constructive atmosphere and which I asked for an opinion for this week. You will understand that it would be ill-advised to communicate the preliminary draft before it is adapted in the light of this opinion. I can tell you, however, that its aim is, of course, to maintain the safety rules which have their place in the legislation while adapting those which do not seem to actually contribute to safety and which are sometimes felt to be superfluous or inapplicable. To achieve this, obtaining the advice of the Advisory Board is an essential step, not a mere formality. As you know, this Council brings together representatives of the Federal Arms Service, the Test Bench, the Central Register of Arms, the Armoury, museums, arms manufacturers and weapons collectors, shooting federations, hunters, federal and local police, governors and independent associations. I have taken the opportunity to submit to him also the draft bill amending the Arms Act, the amendment of which is necessary, on the one hand, to achieve the two points of the Government Agreement relating to arms, namely the security measures on which your question relates, and the opening of a new period for the declaration of certain weapons and, on the other hand, to make the technical or common-sense corrections that are necessary ten years after the coming into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of the fact that you are consulting the hunters among others. I'm glad. I stress that the aim is not to avoid safety measures but to make the system more flexible because some provisions are inadequately cumbersome for hunting. I trust you in this will to succeed in consultation with the hunters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u4	Minister, I would like to discuss with you the problem of hunting for big game in unenclosed territories, and more specifically the interpretation by a part of the judiciary of a Walloon circular on this subject. Prior to 1994, he was allowed to engage in large game hunting in fenced areas. In 1994, a decree revising the Hunting Act of 1882 prohibited this practice. This text refers to derogations allowing the laying of so-called "protection" fences on hunting grounds to ensure the safety of persons. These may include fences along major communication roads to prevent game from crossing and causing accidents, or fences to protect crops and livestock from damage caused by wild boar. These exceptions quickly led to problematic interpretations of the law. For example, by laying protective fences in different places, a person has finally managed to recreate, illegally, a hunting park. Aware of these abuses, the Walloon Minister of Agriculture and Hunting decided in 2013 to issue a circular to reprosecrate things. Since then, it's almost all right. It turns out that recently, a deputy prosecutor of the King of the province of Luxembourg has contacted various hunting companies, informing them of his own interpretation of the circular. According to him, there can be no fences at all (including protective fences) on hunting grounds. On this subjective basis, he orders these hunting companies or communes that own land with protective fences to dismantle everything by next year. This non-conforming interpretation of the circular is intolerable in that it risks endangering users of the major communication roads in the area concerned and also causing crop damage to local farmers. It goes without saying that the attitude of this substitute is likely to create public and material damage for which he would be held liable, according to the hunters. Mr Minister, hunting is certainly a regional competence. However, I would like to know your opinion on the legal aspect of this issue. What about this action by the King's prosecutor, ignoring the agreements made by the political and administrative authorities and the realities on the ground? Can we accept a personal interpretation of a law and circular? Could you direct this substitute, if any, to comply with this Ministerial Circular? In other words, my question is who can enforce this circular, given the complexity created by the regionalization of this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u5	Mr. Clarinval, as you noted, it would seem inappropriate to me that the Federal Minister of Justice should express his views on the interpretation to be given to a regional order. I will therefore confine myself to summarizing the answer provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office: "The Organic Hunting Act, as amended by a Walloon decree of 1994, prohibits hunting for big game in fenced grounds, with the exception of territories or parts of territory bounded by fences set up for the safety of persons, the protection of crops or the maintenance of livestock. The fenced territory is defined as any territory or part of a hunting territory permanently or temporarily bounded by one or more obstacles preventing the free movement of any species of large game." This provision was interpreted as follows by the Court of Cassation in a judgment of 22 February 2012 concerning a judgment of the Court of Appeal of Liège of 4 October 2011: "Can therefore constitute a fence prohibiting hunting, not only that which completely encloses a territory on itself, but also that which, composed of elements arranged continuously or discontinuously, hinders the free course of the great game and thus undermines the balance between the animal and its natural environment." The Public Prosecutor's Office infers from these judgments: "The trial judge must assess on a case-by-case basis whether or not the disposition of the premises impedes the free movement of the great game. The interpretation of the law by a ministerial circular is in no way binding on him. To be illegal, the fence must not be recent or complete. A fence is an obstacle to free movement by its unassessable length by an animal that does not have the intelligence to circumvent it and may see its escape prevented or delayed during hunting." According to the Public Prosecutor's Office, "the exception to the protection of people does not justify closing along roads to the detriment of the mix and regeneration of game". The cases relating to this problem are open to the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor's Office, which, at this stage, and in consultation with the Attorney-General of Liège, proposes solutions negotiated with the persons concerned, taking into account the legal criteria. In addition, the judges of the various Walloon Prosecutors' Offices meeting within the regional sub-group of the Network of Expertise "Environment and Urbanism", set up by the College of Attorneys General, were recently made aware of this issue, which was also raised at a meeting with representatives of the Walloon Environment Administration for the coordinated implementation of environmental criminal policy, held on 4 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u6	Minister, I will read your answer with interest because it is quite complete. But what I understand at the first hearing is that the law and the restrictive circular are clear and that an interpretation of it could be problematic, including on the ground. I hope that, in the case of the province of Luxembourg, we will be able to arrive at a reasonable solution which will keep fences along the main lines of communication in order to avoid accidents. Common sense must prevail in this area against the will of some to freely interpret legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u7	Minister, we have already discussed this. However, I am still looking for more concrete information. The 2014 Annual Report of Child Focus showed that last year the number of files on the possible sexual exploitation of children through ICT doubled. In total, it would be 97 files, most of which are about online grooming. In addition, it's about sexting and sexual harassment. I did not receive an answer to my written question. That is why I am happy to ask my question again here today. How do you define the phenomenon of sexting? How many cases of sexual exploitation of children via ICT are known in the police and court for 2014? What infringement is sexting registered under? Is there a need to register online sexual exploitation of children separately in the Criminal Code so that it can be better mapped? In what way do the perpetrators of such facts be traced? Is there a proactive way of doing this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u8	Mrs Lijnen, it seems to me that I have to apologize to you for the second time that, contrary to what I promised you during the December part-session, you have not yet received an answer to your written question on the issue. You may be convinced that there is no evil will in the game. A draft reply appeared to have been prepared by the administration, but had not yet reached my policy cell. I will now give you an oral explanation. The problem of making statements on this issue lies in the non-penal definition of sexting, namely the distribution or sharing of sexually tinted photocopiers or messages via mobile phones or other mobile media. As the name suggests, it is a contraction of sex and mms-texting. Sextingis as a separate phenomenon is therefore not included in the Criminal Code, but is related to other crimes, such as bellaging, extortion and, in the case of sexual images of minors, the dissemination of child pornography images within the meaning of Article 383a of the Criminal Code. Sexting can happen between adults as well as between young people and not constitute criminal offences at all, because it takes place in a consensual way between adults and without additional illegal elements. In addition, there will also be a high dark number in this area, as shame will be an important factor not to report in the first instance. Unfortunately, there are no specific figures on the sexual exploitation of children via ICT on the basis of the databases of Justice. In the databases of the statistical analysts of the College of Attorneys-General, there is no specific prevention code corresponding thereto and the statistical databases generally do not allow to select on the basis of the age of the victim. You are asking for a separate registration in the Criminal Code for the online sexual exploitation of children. However, if you mean a separate specific offence, that does not make sense to me. Making criminal law even more specific according to the status of the victim or the modus operandi makes criminal law even more complex and even less coherent. Above all, we must ensure that new forms of crime, committed according to new modus operandi, can also be prosecuted and punished within more generic crime definitions. The modernisation of the penal provisions, including to address new forms of foster through the Internet and new technology, will be an important challenge in a transition to a new modern Criminal Code. If you mean a better image of the police and the justice system, I can add that this is not yet the case. Only when registration is sufficiently refined at the level of detection and the various databases can be linked, will an integrated reading of facts, files and justiables be possible throughout the criminal justice chain. Unfortunately, that is not possible today. Unfortunately, the IT projects in the development of integrated crime statistics still have a long way to go. With regard to better tracing of perpetrators of offences of sexual exploitation, I would like first of all to refer to the initiatives envisaged in the field of Internet trecherche and online detection methods. The new detection methods will indeed allow for a more proactive approach through increased police presence on the Internet. Finally, I would also like to refer you to the draft directive transposing the European Directive 2011/93, which I will deliver to Parliament in the near future, with which we want to deal more closely and accurately with the sexual abuse of children, child pornography and trafficking in human beings for the purposes of sexual exploitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u9	Minister, I am glad that I have received an answer. I don't see any malice in the delay. I can assure you of that. Children are a very vulnerable group, also online. I've told you that before. Parents think their child is safe when it's at home at the kitchen table, on the couch or in the bedroom. Such phenomena show that this is not the case. We must be very vigilant about this. I look forward to your new initiatives and the upcoming bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u10	Mr President, Minister, the Internet offers many useful opportunities. This way one can find infinite amount of information online. However, many illegal content, piracy, hate pages, cyberbullying and so on can also be found. Since these sites are accessible to anyone with access to the Internet, it is very important to keep an eye on this. I asked a written question on this once. I am glad to be able to put my question orally today. What do you understand under the term illegal content online? What infringement of the penal code is this registered under? How many cases of illegal content online are currently known to the police and the courts? How is illegal content tracked online? Is one able to find and bring to justice perpetrators of placing illegal content online?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, illegal content is not a clear concept and cannot simply be catalogued under one specific infringement of the Criminal Code. These are content data on the Internet that may constitute a criminal offence, such as infringements of intellectual property rights, racism, infringements of consumer protection laws, child abuse and content related to terrorism. Each of these facts has to be assessed in isolation and is therefore covered by another article of the Criminal Code or other special criminal laws. The way in which these infringements should be dealt with may also vary from fact to fact. Some of the most serious crimes, such as child abuse or terrorism, can lend themselves to a notice and take-down procedure. In doing so, the relevant website is blocked and deleted after having taken a copy of it for the taking of evidence. Precisely because the concept of illegal content is not unambiguous, there are no figures on the number of cases. Illegal content can be traced by any user of the Internet. At that time, the user can report to the police. In cases of sexual abuse of minors, a report can also be made to Child Focus. Of course, the perpetrators of posting illegal content can be traced and prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u13	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you will understand, the subject of my question is of some importance to the Liège region. For several years now, the SPF Justice has been cutting regularly in the budget of the medical-legal institutes, and especially in the budget of the Institute of Forensic Medicine in Liège, despite the numerous appeals of experts whose work on the ground is quite substantial. We have even reached the point where the Institute can no longer cover its current expenses. As a result of this chronic underfunding, the Director General of the Institute has submitted the notice of the ten members who are employed there in order to be able to close, with great regret – which I also share – the Institute at the end of the year if no improvement or new prospects are in sight. Minister, are you aware of this issue of funding for the Institute? If so, has this funding problem weighed in the balance of the FPS Justice's allocation of new burdens to medical-legal institutes abroad? What future do you reserve for the Institute of Forensic Medicine in Liège, its employees, forensic doctors, and those who, embracing a career as a doctor in Liège, would like to opt for a career as a medical examiner, an option for which the University of Liège had planned a specific training and a very unique know-how?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u14	Mr President, Minister, like my colleagues, I have been informed and questioned by the difficult conditions in which the Forensic Institute of Liège is located. I know the latter well because it is based in the same place as the mortuary depot and the morgue of Liège, for which I have the responsibility as an echevine. Given the limited resources available to this Institute, its director, Dr. Philippe Boxho, had to place his staff on notice until the end of December 2016. Since Liège is my city, I am all the more concerned about the consequences of your economic measures. In addition, the Institute is essential for our city because it covers the province of Liège as well as the province of Luxembourg. In addition to DNA analyses, the Institute's work of forensic expertise, particularly in the area of sexual assault, can be mentioned. The collaboration between the judicial and police authorities is very successful, unlike the case of victims who are treated in hospitals with the sexual assault set for which difficulties have been reported. The end of the Institute of Forensics will ring the bells of this fruitful collaboration between doctors, police and Justice, which nevertheless serves as an example, even beyond our borders. To clarify the situation, I quote Dr Boxho: "I cannot work at a loss and ask the University of Liège to finance the federal state. Our annual deficit is more or less 200 000 euros because the legal medicine service we provide to the justice system does not pay enough. So far, we have managed to make ends meet through other activities such as medical expertise, but the purely economic reasoning of Minister Geens will lead to the fall of our laboratory and therefore of the Institute as a whole." Thus, thirteen people find themselves at risk. The Department of Justice has imposed several measures. One of them has more impact than the other because it involves halving the amount allocated to Justice for DNA analysis. In addition, these measures asphyxiate the smallest institutes, including the one in Liège. I fear that the hidden objective of reducing the cost of analyses is simply to close the Institute and send samples abroad where other prices are sometimes charged. However, even if the economic interest is understood, the time taken to analyse and send the results will inevitably be longer and the risk of loss of samples will be higher. Confidential data would then be processed in a foreign country. Minister, what is the record of your meetings with the Director of the Forensic Institute? How is your reflection on this matter moving forward? Are you considering closing the Institute or not? If not, what do you intend to do to improve the situation and ensure the employment of staff? Finally, do you intend to outsource all forensic analyses?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to recall what my colleagues have just described and the catastrophic situation in which the Forensic Institute of Liège is immersed, which is undoubtedly a reference. It's not because we're a legionist and a little principal though we emphasize it, but because there's real expertise. The people who took the law courses at the University of Liège are familiar with Dr. Philippe Boxho for his various activities and expertise. It is therefore quite a misunderstanding of the decisions that are announced, especially since the turnover of the Institute has increased from 1.2 million euros in 2013 to 770,000 euros today. And you still want to cut that budget. However, we have just recalled the essential tasks of this service. Beyond the Institute of Liege, which has been particularly pinned in the press, minister, could you tell me whether other medical-legal institutes in other regions are affected by the same reductions? How will you compensate? What missions will you no longer entrust to him? What budgets do you intend to dedicate to this Institute? Are you considering a slight increase in the budget allocated in order to sustain the quality judicial expertise that has been carried out for so many years? Finally, by way of comparison, can you give us details of the current and future amounts allocated to the other Institutes? If there are differences in treatment between these institutes, can you explain why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since previously applied and indexed tariffs date back to 1999, so 16 years ago, it is difficult to say that analytical devices are at a very expensive stage of research and development on which the previous tariffs are still largely based. A new analysis of costs, examples from abroad and existing rates for DNA analysis of convicted persons clearly indicate that tariffs must be adapted to the new economic reality of the company. However, I would like to make it clear that we are still talking about DNA analysis itself, but that the issue is broken down into six services with separate fees: examination of exhibits, sampling, preliminary testing, DNA extraction and quantification, genetic analysis and the establishment of a genetic profile. All these components have been adapted to the new technological reality. As requested, I would like to make available to you the table of payments made in 2014 and 2015 for the various DNA laboratories. Prosecutors of the King, substitutes or investigating magistrates are the only ones authorized to request laboratories in the context of the cases they have to deal with. It is not within our competence to designate the laboratories to be requisitioned by these magistrates. The assessments are paid according to the services and the consequent cost statements issued by the laboratories. These statements of costs must be taxed by the requesting magistrate and accompanied by the summons. It is therefore neither an allocation nor a grant to the various laboratories. It is not within our competence to decide the closure of a laboratory. This decision depends on the decision of its board of directors. I hope that the laboratories will adapt to this new reality of pricing through specialization and the development of collaborations. However, I promised to re-evaluate the issue every two years; the first time after four months, that is, at the end of this month, I believe, since we started on November 1, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u17	Minister, thank you. Your answer leaves me somewhat on my hunger. I understand that discussions will continue on the future planning of the Forensic Institute of Liège. That's a good point. Although I understand very well that the allocation decisions are the responsibility of the respective boards of directors – and this is reflected in the proper management of these files – I regret that there is no reason to reflect on the maintenance of an instrument that has shown its importance in previous years. As Mrs Matz mentioned, there is a peak in the requests for analysis submitted to the Forensic Institute of Liège. It is also a shame that we forget our learning mission. I hope that the dialogues that you intend to enter into in the coming months will bear fruit and ensure sustainability for the Institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u18	Mr Minister, I obviously associate myself with what has just been said. The human aspect has not been mentioned when a few people are on notice and their professional future is uncertain. I understand that re-evaluations are going to take place and that it's not all over. I am not reassured but I remain hopeful; it is my optimistic nature. Having said that, I hear we're paying for the service, if I understand correctly. At first glance, I can only be very impressed by the painting you gave me. Liège is decreasing, and I can understand that there are fewer benefits, but I see other areas where benefits almost double. I will read your documents carefully and I will probably come back with one or the other parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u19	Minister, your answer makes me stay more than on my hunger. She seems very detached to me by saying that this is not really your problem, or that it is little, since it depends on a board of directors. Is a stronger involvement on your part in this issue possible? This Institute carries out a work of detailed analyses with pricing – there is a drop in demand and I am a little puzzled – with a recourse to sharp expertise. It is not because it is Liège but we know that when we talk about criminal cases in the media, one of the first referents is often the director of this Institute, Philippe Boxho. The latter also participates in a number of symposia and gives courses at the university. This is a series of activities that contribute to the continuation of a trade and specialization. I didn't understand the date you mentioned for the re-evaluation. The next deadline will be in the coming weeks. I really hope that you will go from your strong involvement in this issue in order to find a lasting solution. What is most disturbing for this kind of service is the loss of expertise of people who risk going to other skies because they are not stabilized in one function. However, the risk of losing this expertise is great. I count on you to use your weight and influence to sustain this very important tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u20	Mr.President, Minister, according to federal police statistics, 18,189 complaints of domestic violence were recorded in the first five months of 2015. It is also reasonable to assume that these figures represent only the tip of the iceberg. Indeed, some victims give up filing complaints out of shame, fear of reprisals or simply out of ignorance of the proper functioning of our judicial system. Furthermore, while studies tend to show that women remain the main victims of domestic violence, experts point out that men may also be victims of their partner's actions, even if they are more psychological than physical. Minister, do you have any statistics on the number of complaints of domestic violence that actually resulted in a conviction of the person in question? Do you have any statistics indicating the proportion of men among the victims of domestic violence who filed a complaint in this regard? Do you consider the protection and follow-up measures for victims of domestic violence to be sufficient to date? If not, are measures being considered within your departments to strengthen these two components? Does the government have tools to prevent and inform victims of domestic violence? If so, do you find them satisfactory to date or do your services consider adapting them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u21	Mr President, Ms Jadin, according to the extraction of the statistics from the public prosecutor's offices on 10 September 2015, between 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2014, 18,328 defendants were convicted. This is a first substantive conviction. 4,818 defendants had another fate. 1,068 defendants were acquitted at this stage of the proceedings. With regard to the proportion of men among victims of domestic violence, at present it is impossible to specify the statistics of the police by sex or gender of the victim. To answer your questions about measures to protect and monitor victims of domestic violence, as well as the availability of prevention and information tools, the National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence 2015-2019 provides for a range of concrete measures to prevent violence, protect and support victims, and measures to investigate, prosecute and adopt effective protection measures for victims. More specifically, the following are some examples of measures advocated by the national action plan: to resume sexual and domestic violence as priority crime phenomena to be combated in the comprehensive security framework note, the national security plan and the zonal security plans; to continue the development of family justice centres where victims of gender-based violence and domestic violence have access in one place to the necessary range of police, judicial and assistance services. Justice supports such initiatives, which require a comprehensive approach by all relevant actors, including the relevant Community services, the police and the aid and care services. The National Action Plan also provides for the evaluation of Circular 18/2012 on removal from the home and the adaptation of the relevant legislation, if necessary, in order to achieve a better and effective application of the measure. In addition, in the context of the implementation of the government agreement, we are considering an adaptation of the legislation on professional secrecy that would allow all relevant actors to participate in the multidisciplinary consultation in charge of cases of domestic and domestic violence. It will, of course, be important to ensure that the implementation of these measures is always in line with the objectives pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, you are giving me a lot of new information that will feed my thoughts on this subject and eventually allow me to develop new proposals, since this is also part of our work as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 9197 and 9233 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u24	Minister, the Brussels courthouse, the work of the famous architect Joseph Poelaert, is one of the most important jewels of our national heritage. Built in the 19th century, this imposing building was at the time one of the largest monuments in Europe. It remains today the largest courthouse in the world. Unfortunately, no one will have escaped that this building has suffered the dread of time and that its state of conservation is problematic. This situation is so worrying that the prestigious international organization World Monuments Fund (WMF) even ranked it last October in its list of the most threatened buildings in the world. Unfortunately, renovations started in the 1980s have not yet been completed and the building has been covered for too long years by a myriad of unnamed scaffolding. As parts of the Palace have become unusable, a number of judicial functions have had to be transferred to nearby buildings whose rental weighs on the State treasury: some regularly mention the sum of 20 million euros per year, including the Urban Research and Action Workshop (ARAU). Finally, the direct approaches to the courthouse would also deserve to be renovated to regain their chandelier of old. In the face of this situation, I asked your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments twice. On 17 November, he announced in the Finance and Budget Committee that the scenario to reallocate a substantial part of the building, by setting up shops and cultural spaces, was abandoned. Recalling quite rightly the symbolic and emblematic function of the courthouse, both in the Brussels and Belgian imaginations, he also confirmed that the general objective now aimed at the gradual reintegration of the functions of justice in a secure and renovated framework. Obviously, we can only welcome this decision. On the one hand, this should make it possible to end the costly rental of alternative reception buildings in the long run. On the other hand, this should reassure all the professionals of the justice system and the federations of independents of the surrounding neighborhoods, who had been very openly concerned about the potential transformation of the Palace into a kind of shopping mail. On February 2, during a new parliamentary debate, the Deputy Prime Minister clarified his remarks by announcing that, as part of the general works, in addition to obtaining town planning permits, a public market should be launched for mid-2016 in order to support the commissioning of studies and the launch of the facade renovation project in 2018 for an estimated ten years. When a facade is restored, the scaffolding covering it will be dismantled. This is excellent news for the Brussels urban landscape, which has been waiting for it for several decades. With regard to the reintegration of the various functions of justice in the Palais, like for example the registry of the ASBLs located in Forest, a maximalistic scenario is apparently not technically possible. However, a study should be initiated to assess the optimal reception of services in order to keep a relatively small number of services in peripheral buildings. Finally, with regard to the outside approaches of the courthouse, the Deputy Prime Minister said, I quote: "In the short term, we want to remove parking spaces outside, because there are enough places in the underground parking lot Poelaert, and to arrange the outskirts of the palace by making qualitative improvements. In the medium term, we want to remove more parking spaces. In the long term, it is desired to completely remove the outdoor parking and to improve the quality of the outskirts of the palace". Mr Minister, in view of these elements, which at last augurs for a positive development on this issue, I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the synergies currently established between your services and those of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, to support the various components of the Palais de Justice project? Could you give us an outline, including the objectives and the schedules? What are your orientations on the optimal relocation of justice services within the Palais? What services do you prefer, not only in terms of the performance of missions to the community, but also in terms of the proper use of public funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u25	Mr Calomne, I will be clear and I would like to confirm my strong wish that the Court of Justice in Brussels will remain fully occupied by the judicial services. I am also convinced that in order to make this occupation functional, very large renovations are necessary. The description of the needs falls within my competence and the execution of the works and renovations is the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments. A distinction must also be made between exterior and interior renovations. Together with my colleague Jan Jambon, I set up a working group to determine future occupation and renovation. In the meantime, my services are working on an inventory of the needs and needs of judicial services. This exercise is ongoing and the choices will depend in particular on the degree of security possible. I would like to point out that it is wrong to believe that all the services established around the palace will be able to find accommodation there. There is insufficient space, but this does not mean that a permutation of the old services will be made impossible. The file is very complex. I am aware that a complete renovation is not yet due tomorrow. That said, a new wind is now blowing on this issue. There is no doubt that he will benefit from all the necessary expertise, especially from the Régie des Bâtiments. Optimism is not forbidden, however! (...): I am delighted that a new wind blows on the scaffoldings of the Palace of Justice!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u26	Here's a happy bruxellois!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u27	Minister, I too can only rejoice. This case didn't escape anyone. I think I've never even known the courthouse without scaffolding. As far as the inventory under way is concerned, I understand that it falls within your purview. Do you already have any idea the timing? When I interviewed your colleague, he told me that he had to wait before taking further initiatives. So, have you set a deadline for your administration? Have legal professionals been consulted, whether they are the judiciary or the Bar Association?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u28	I'll talk to you next time. As for the timing, I would say ASAP, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u29	Mr President, until 1 November 2015, Article 806 of the Code of the Court of Justice provided that any judgment in default should be served within the year, subject to the penalty of lapse of that judgment. As of 1 November 2015, under the law of 19 October 2015, that sanction lapses and the sentence continues to exist, even if it has not been served. I have a number of questions concerning the application during the time of this legislative amendment, which seems to give rise to differing interpretations in practice. Is it the case, in line with the doctrine of law, that, with regard to the default sentences handed down from 1 November 2014, they should no longer be served under penalty of lapse within the year so that this penalty of 1 November 2015 is lifted? Judgments that are more than 1 November 2014 and therefore have already expired on 1 November 2015 would obviously not be revived as a result of the legislative amendment. That is the position according to the doctrine of justice and of some court chairmen. Others then consider that the old sanction provided for in Article 806 continues to affect all default sentences, dropped before 1 November 2015, and that the obligation to serve default sentences within the year no longer applies to all default sentences that occur from 2 November. Others believe that if a judgment has expired under the old rule, it is no longer possible to fix it under Article 806, because it no longer exists in its old wording. Mr Minister, can you clarify and clarify the application in time of Article 806 of the Code of Justice as last amended by Law of 19 October 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, until 31 October 2015, the old Article 806 of the Code of the Court of Justice provided that the judgment in default must be served within one year, otherwise it will be considered non-existent. Article 20 of the Law of 19 October 2015 amending civil procedural law and laying down various provisions on justice replaced that article by a provision of a very different nature, so that the old Article 806 was essentially abolished and that, as of 1 November 2015, in the absence of any special regulation, indeed the tenth day after the publication of the law. Article 3 of the Civil Code confirms the immediate effect of the new procedural law. The same applies, of course, to the abolition of the old ones. It follows that the lifting of Article 806 applies not only to the default sentences issued as from 1 November 2015, but also to all default sentences which had not yet expired on that date and therefore all default sentences issued as from 1 November 2014. For all these sentences, therefore, the lapse can no longer take effect. On the other hand, the judgments already voided on 1 November 2015, which are the non-meaning default judgments issued before 1 November 2014, will of course lapse because the law of 19 October 2015 has no retroactive effect. For those judgments, of course, the lapse can be undone. This must be done as before, so by putting the matter back on the table. I note that views have been expressed on this matter before and also differing. The Leval, Van Compernolle and Georges confirm the above interpretation in an article in the Journal des tribunaux. Scheers and Thiriar, on the other hand, take the date of default as the hinge date for the survival of the old article 806 ratione temporis. As a result, all default sentences issued before 1 November 2015, even though they were less than a year old on 1 November 2015, would still be cancelled due to lack of service. You can find that in an article by both gentlemen published in the Legal Weekblad It is true that the date of a judgment is the reference date traditionally used for the scope of rational temporality of novelties in the field of remedies. However, this is not a legal remedy but a waiver of the revocation of a judgment not served in good time. Such lapse shall not take effect until one year after the date on which the judgment was delivered. In any case, this decline cannot take place again if the legal provision on the basis of which that should be done no longer exists. Since the problem of interpretation is already pending before the courts and courts, it is for the courts and courts to decide. I trust that higher justice will follow quickly, which is preferable to an opinion of the Minister, especially over the instruction of the Minister I cannot issue in respect of courts and courts in such a matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u31	You replied to me, Minister, that there is support in the doctrine of law for the various practical applications that have been expressed to me. As a final remark, I noted that the rule of Article 806 as lifted, in particular to the extent to which it related to the decay, relates to the relief of the decay and that that scheme no longer exists from 1 November 2015 and I add this last conclusion to it myself therefore cannot interfere with the expiry after 1 November 2015. What there is no discussion about, if I understand correctly, is this. To the extent that there would have been a decline, a new determination and a new judgment can still be requested on the basis of the old rules. The old Article 806 can therefore still serve to fix the case again, although it no longer exists. The subpoena thus remains, the case can be fixed again, and this could lead to a new verdict if necessary. I hear hm, hm, and I assume that means approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u32	My opinion on this matter is of secondary importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u33	Minister, according to the French investigative weekly Marianne published earlier this year, an informant of Belgian investigators, Abdelkader el-Farssaoui, also acts as a recruiter for jihadist channels. In fact, this character would have operated from 2011 to 2014 in the streets of Brussels and in the vicinity of the airports leading to Turkey, a well-known crossing point to the warlords of Daesh. This weekly also reportedly had access to the investigation file of two young people, Murat and Ibrahim, prosecuted in Belgium for "participating in an activity of a terrorist group" (the Jean-Louis Denis sector) through the alleged intervention of Abdelkader el-Farssaoui. The telephone analyses would clearly show that El-Farssaoui accompanied the two young people, Murat and Ibrahim, until their flight to Istanbul in November 2013. These are therefore not allegations from the latter, manipulated or seeking to unravel. No one disputes this established fact, not even federal prosecutor Paule Somers, in charge of the case since its origin, obliged to admit at the end of the trial, on 3 December, that "Abdelkader el-Farssaoui was at the agency and at the airport", but that "he did not pay the trip". Similarly, in another sensitive case, al-Farssaoui was reportedly visited by Mohamed Merah three weeks before his attack in southern France. Yet, despite all these particularly confusing charges, el-Farssaoui has never been worried by the police and, at this stage, he is therefore free from his movements. The reason for this apparent impunity is that this individual would be an informant of the Belgian investigators, after having been in the service of the Spanish police in that same capacity. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm that Abdelkader el-Farssaoui is an informant of our police services and that he has also played a role in several cases of departures of young Belgians to Syria? If this Islamist were indeed an undercover agent, he should have been declared as such, secretly, but in good and proper form in the official registers, which would have given him police status. Was that the case? How many such informants are using our services today to combat radicalism and terrorism? Are they registered and monitored by our services? Why has Abdelkader el-Farssaoui so far escaped any charges while his name is precisely in the case of the prosecution of young people, Murat and Ibrahim? This is the case described by the French weekly. Belgium would therefore have lost its track today without issuing an international arrest and search warrant. Is that the case? Why was no search or arrest warrant issued? Finally, what is your reaction to the interview that Attorney General Van Leeuw gave this weekend on the potential use of "repentis" as informants? It won't have escaped you, Mr. Van Leeuw suggested that Salah Abdeslam could have been used as an informant. In general, what are your thoughts about this type of survey strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u34	Colleagues, I will refrain from commenting on this particular issue. I can remind you that, according to article 30 (2) of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, "there is a provocation when, in the author's head, the criminal intention was born directly or when it was reinforced or confirmed while the author wanted to put an end to it by the intervention of a police officer or a third party acting at the express request of that official". In the judgement of 29 January 2016, which is not yet a final judgment, the Brussels Correctional Court found that there is no evidence in the case file that Abdelkader el-Farssaoui, on whom your question relates, would be an official of the Belgian police. The judgement further states that "even assuming that the name el-Farssaoui is an indicator of the Belgian police, there is no reason to conclude that his activities of material and moral aid in favour of the candidates for departure would have been carried out at the request of, on behalf of, or in cooperation with, the police authorities or the judicial authorities". On the contrary, according to the judgement, "the behaviour, both of Mr. el-Farssaoui and of the police, makes the hypothesis of a provocation radically impossible".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. I expected it to be rather brief indeed. However, I would have liked you to comment on the fact that there is, in any case, no arrest warrant or search warrant and that this character, quoted in many files and not least, is absolutely not formally sought by our services. It's quite challenging. I wish you'd commented on that. We will, of course, be following this issue carefully. I will probably come back to ask you more questions on the subject. In addition, I would also have been interested in hearing your feelings about the statements made by Prosecutor Van Leeuw. It'll probably be for the next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stefaan Van Hecke's 9305 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u37	Minister, as the current state of affairs regarding the terrorist threat has demonstrated, the techniques of intercepting and identifying telephone calls are necessary for the work of our security services. The budget mobilised for this type of measure would be estimated at around EUR 14 million to be paid out to telecommunications operators. However, in order to reduce the impact of these costs of justice on the public treasury, the government would have opened negotiations with the various parties involved, including large telecom operators, police services and the IBPT, to define a less costly system of collaboration. It would appear that a budget reduction of around 50%, i.e. a change from EUR 14 million to EUR 7 million, is possible. This would be excellent news for the Treasury. Minister, can you confirm this information? If so, can you provide us with an outline of the formula used to reduce the government's liabilities? Moreover, what is the overall volume of telephone taps today? What are the possible margins of progress compared to last year, in the context of the voted budget for 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u38	Mr Calomne, I can only confirm that wiretapping is an important tool for services in the context you have described, particularly in the fight against terrorism. I note, moreover, that the applicant authorities' requests for interceptions of messages on the Internet continue to increase. As soon as I took office, we looked for more correct and efficient pricing. Previous pricing was based on 27 price variants. This made the invoicing of controls over tariffs very laborious. In addition, the number of fee statements exceeded one hundred thousand units, while the amount per statement of costs declined on average. It remains so modest for fifty statements of costs that their processing costs to operators and management services are higher than the amounts charged. For these last services, we have reached a flat rate rate. (...) [[gsm parasitization]] The rate structure has no relation to the cost of benefits. However, the IBPT has developed a model to define this cost-per-service structure. It was this document that served as the basis for setting the four tariffs, which include several former prices. We have therefore achieved administrative simplification while ensuring a definition which, on the one hand, includes maximum flexibility for the requesting authority and, on the other, correct compensation for operators. The IBPT recently issued this proposal for formal consultation with operators, although my administration had already presented the guidelines to these same operators in advance. Apart from the volume effects, which are very real, the expected savings on the basis of a constant volume of benefits are of the order you have quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u39	Minister, thank you. Of course, we can only welcome this principle of administrative simplification, which will make it possible to improve efficiency while at the same time saving the State several million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 9427 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Groote also postponed 6463 and a question from Mrs Jadin was also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I will not surprise you by telling you about the courthouse in Tournai. But it is now 2016 and I expected to discover your Masterplan Palace of Justice, since it was to be completed by the end of last year. Unfortunately, I see that this is not the case. However, I look forward to this report in order to know the future of the Courthouse in Tournai. I would indeed like to know whether the solution to restore the present courthouse is retained. May I remind you that the Courthouse of Tournai was inaugurated in 1879. It has some architectural features that impress the litigants, especially in the Greco-Roman style, the large staircase that allows access to the Salle des pas perdus or waiting room and a pediment dominated by a statue of Themis, goddess of justice. Admit, Minister, that it would be unacceptable for this building to no longer be used in the years to come, as it perfectly embodies Justice. You were able to see this during your visit to Tournai on Friday 11 December. Minister, I ask you once again: when will your Masterplan come out? Last but not least, what future do you envisage for the Tournai courthouse?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u42	Mr President, Mr Delannois, I refer you to the answer I gave you less than a month ago, which is still valid. I told you then that I had made a visit to Tournai and that it was integrated into the exercise. I have already referred to the Masterplan on judicial buildings, which is currently being drawn up, in this committee. As this work has not yet been completed, I can only state it again for the time being. I am convinced that it is better to conduct this difficult exercise in a thorough manner than to do so in haste with a result of lower quality. Once this plan is ready, each relevant actor will be informed in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u43	I can hear you, minister, but the only thing is that you announced last year that you would have this plan at the end of December. I'm a little impatient. I feel like I'm a little radote by asking you systematically every month what's going on. But what I especially want to hear, as well as the entire judicial world in Tournai, is that indeed, we are not going to leave this courthouse without a future. You know that there are currently problems with the offices located on Rue du Château. A lot of people wonder about a possible hidden Justice agenda and worry about having to leave. I don't make any lawsuits of intent, but I would need an answer, preferably confirmation of the presence in Tournai of a place of justice. That is the only answer I want. I may come back to you again, since you don't give me a date either. If you ask me to calm down until March, April, May or June, I will obey. But know that as long as you don't tell me when this plan comes out, I'll get you back on track.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u44	Mr President, if the minister has the written answer, I am prepared to turn this oral question into a written question when it was a written question that was turned into an oral question to try to get an answer. I tabled this question more than a year ago and you are the last member of the government not to answer me about this important fact, namely the use of consulting companies by members of the government, which leads to astronomical figures. (The Minister forwarded his response to the President)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u45	Here's the answer, Mr. Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u46	She looks very short, which I'm worried about. Minister, I will come back to you on the basis of the content of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u47	Mr President, Mr Fabri recently appeared before the Brussels Criminal Court in a case of tax fraud and money laundering. According to the newspaper L'Avenir of 13 February last, the accused was acquitted because of a procedural failure to comply with article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. According to the same sources, the prosecutor's office would be "bewildered" by this decision, as well as the failure to comply with the so-called Antigone case law as to the admissibility of the evidence and would consider filing an application for appeal, following this first instance decision. As a reminder, the facts invoked are particularly serious (fiscal fraud, money laundering, false invoices). The evidence-based investigation involved many investigators during the six-year investigation of this case. Minister, do you confirm this decision of the Brussels Correctional Court of a technical acquittal in the Fabri case? Can you clarify in more detail the reasons for the court's determination of inadmissibility of the proceedings in this case? Do you consider them compatible with Antigone jurisprudence? Is it not problematic for this case law to be interpreted in such a variety of ways by the courts? Is it not appropriate to go through the law, along the lines proposed by the Minister of Finance as part of his policy paper on combating tax evasion? How many hours of investigation were required at the prosecutorial level to complete this case? How many investigators have been mobilized to prepare it? Has the prosecution finally decided to appeal this decision? On what basis? If he has not yet done so, how soon will he take this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u48	Mr President, dear colleague, the College of Attorneys General has given me the following answers:"The French-speaking correctional court in Brussels has declared the proceedings inadmissible against the defendants in a case known as Fabri by a judgment of 11 February 2016. The prosecution will appeal this judgement. It is not appropriate to comment on it, especially since at this stage the procedure is not final. In addition, I refer to article 32 of the Preliminary Title of the Code of Criminal Investigation, which contains the case law known as the Antigone of the Court of Cassation. In the context of the major reform of the criminal procedure, the punishment of procedural irregularities and, where appropriate, the possibility of purging nullities will undoubtedly be the subject of lengthy debate. Finally, I have to tell you that he is not required to account for the hours of investigation by file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u49	My reply will consist of three elements, Minister of Justice. I am pleased that an appeal is brought by the Public Prosecutor's Office; the facts are sufficiently serious and too many cases of the same kind have not been able to lead to a judicial truth and a conviction if there were to be one. I note that the incorporation of Antigone jurisprudence into the Code will, if I understand you correctly, be the subject of further discussions in the Committee on Justice. We have long sought clarification on the subject. We support the possibility of incorporating evidence into records, including when it has been specifically obtained when the facts are very serious. This is the meaning of the Antigone case law. And it is problematic that it be interpreted in a very different way depending on the court or the judge. I note that there is no accounting for hours of investigation or the number of investigators involved in cases. I do not want to overburden the justice services administratively, it is obvious, but it seems to me that this indicator can sometimes be interesting. In this case, I was told that this investigation required a great deal of effort, and that it would be harmful if it were not to succeed. As in other files, there will be an appeal and we will talk about it again in a few years, perhaps with one of your successors. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I am continuing my press review. This time it was the February 11 newspaper Le Soir, which echoed the questioning of Buddhist representatives about the recognition of Buddhism as a non-denominational philosophy. While in the autumn, several meetings between your office and the Belgian Buddhist Union would have made it possible to make significant progress towards recognition, the process seems to be interrupted today, at least if I believe what I have read. Several draft texts had already been exchanged, but none of them had reached the government table or, a fortiori, the parliament. However, this request for recognition of Buddhism is already old. Minister, can we take stock of this issue? What is the status of discussions with Buddhist representatives? Do you confirm that the process of recognizing Buddhism as a non-denominational philosophy is now interrupted? Why? What conditions still need to be met in order for such recognition to be effective? What are the next steps in the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u51	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, constructive consultation is under way with representatives of the Belgian Buddhist Union on the recognition of Buddhism. All recognition of worship is the subject of a law, but contacts are made with the cults who want to benefit from this recognition. It is true that the contacts were on hold in the last few weeks after the attacks in Paris, which is why we asked for and obtained understanding from the Belgian Buddhist Union. As you know, cults must be a record that demonstrates their historical existence on Belgian territory, which supports the social interest they present for the Belgian population, which confirms the number of faithful they can report, as well as the structure of the religious community and the compatibility of worship with public order. By means of these criteria, we therefore verify that this recognition meets a real social need for a part of the population. Since recognition has budgetary implications for the various authorities in our country, they must be informed in detail and consulted before a bill recognizing Buddhism can be tabled in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u52	Minister, I take note of your answer. You conclude by referring to the potential budgetary impact of a positive response on the subject. One may have the impression that it is the main element, without wanting to make a trial of intent, that prevents the progress of this case. You will agree with me that, if that were the case, it would be a shame, like any other element outside the file that would prevent it from succeeding, if at least it is complete and meets the criteria laid down by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u53	Minister, according to the Civil Code, anyone wishing to establish the lineage must do so before his 22nd birthday or within a year of the discovery. The admissibility of a claim to challenge the presumption of paternity also depends on the possession of the State. The Constitutional Court has already stated the following in the past. I quote: "However, the legislator has always allowed the socio-affective reality of paternity to prevail on biological reality by making the state's possession as an absolute ground of inadmissibility of the claim to challenge the presumption of paternity. That absolute ground of inadmissibility completely deprives the child of the possibility of contesting the presumption of fatherhood. Thus, there is no possibility for the courts to take account of the interests of all the parties concerned. Such a measure shall be disproportionate to the legitimate objectives pursued by the legislator and therefore not exist in accordance with Article 22 of the Constitution, read in conjunction with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights." Recently, the Constitutional Court argued in the Boël case in the same way. In the past, the Constitutional Court has already seen a number of problems in relation to descent, in particular the fact that the best interests of the child had to be taken into account only from the age of one year. The fact that the best interests of the child can only be taken into consideration if the child is at least one year old is a difficult rule to justify. However, this occurs not only when the paternity rule is contested but also when the consent for recognition is refused, when the claimed father's recognition is contested and when the examination of paternity is investigated. As regards both the mother's refusal to allow the biological father to recognise the child and the mother's opposition to the alleged father's dispute against the paternity rule, the Constitutional Court has held that it may be relevant for a child under one year of age to assess whether the determination of paternity on the father's side is in line with the best interests of the child. In your recent policy paper, you are in favour of modernising the right of descent. The aim is to strike a balance between social and biological parenting. This can be reflected in the remembrance of, on the one hand, the role of state possession and, on the other hand, the impact of medically assisted reproduction on the establishment of a lineage. You wanted to wait for a number of questions on the law of descent pending before the Constitutional Court. You also wanted to take into account previous judgments of the Constitutional Court. How far do you stand with the reform you announced in your policy paper? When will you come to Parliament with this? Is the current limitation in relation to the age of 22 years or 1 year after discovery still to be maintained in the light of recent developments in the case law? What restrictions should be maintained according to your understanding regarding the rights of the child to know his parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u54	As indicated in my policy paper for the coming year, the law of descent will indeed be reformed and modernised, taking into account the case law of the highest courts, in particular the case law of the Constitutional Court. My administration has now drawn up an overview of all the judgments of the Constitutional Court with the aim of identifying the specific points on which the right of descent needs to be adapted in order to be compatible with the Constitution. This review is constantly being supplemented. As you point out in your question, the Constitutional Court is still answering questions for preliminary rulings on the right of descent today. According to the website of the Constitutional Court, if selected on the search term pedigree, there are currently three further questions pending on the compatibility with the Constitution of the law of 1 July 2006. The answers given by the Constitutional Court to all the recent questions for a preliminary ruling are still very relevant in the preparation of the reform. For example, in the judgment you quoted, the Constitutional Court for the first time ruled on the law governing the right of the child over the age of 22 and did not attempt to put an end to the possession of marital child after hearing the biological reality. In concrete terms, it implies that, in the event of social confirmation of the fatherhood of the spouse, the appeal must not necessarily be inadmissible. As I pointed out in my policy paper of November 2015, I want to take into account all that justice in the reform. In addition, it is important that the reform takes into account the parliamentary consensus that will emerge with regard to the legal arrangements for co-parenting. In December 2015, the Senate issued an information report on a statutory scheme for surrogacy and a number of questions about parenting and/or social parenting. I am aware that it is in the interests of legal certainty that this is adjusted. For this reason, this autumn, I will begin a concrete reform in the form of a preliminary draft. In view of the current case law of the Constitutional Court and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, on the one hand, and developments in contemporary society, which are accompanied by the emergence of new family forms, on the other hand, a very thorough reform of the right of descent is called for. The reform of the law of descent must therefore, as you rightly point out, be interpreted more broadly than merely aligning the current law of descent with the judgments of the Constitutional Court. The emergence of new forms of parenthood in our society and further developments in the field of medically assisted reproduction force us to thoroughly review the law of descent, seeking a completely new balance between social and biological parenthood, with respect for the interests of all parties. I do not want to anticipate the debate. The elements you have mentioned will undoubtedly be discussed in the forthcoming preliminary draft. At the same time, it is important that the reform is prepared with the necessary seriousness and urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u55	Minister, we look forward to further developments and the forthcoming preliminary draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the circular on electronic supervision of 17 July 2013 cannot be applied by the prison director to facts referred to in Articles 372 to 387 of the Criminal Code. Unfortunately, no account is taken of prisoners convicted on the basis of Article 410 of the Criminal Code. In this way, perpetrators of intra-family violence are also eligible for an ankle bracelet. Theoretically, and that has already been done in practice, the perpetrator of intra-family violence can thus serve his sentence at home with an ankle bracelet. At home and therefore in the presence of his victims, a situation that must be avoided. Previous answers have shown that the prison director in Sidis Suite cannot determine whether the violation of Articles 372 to 387 of the Criminal Code took place within the context of Article 410, i.e. within an intrafamily context. You also argued in the past for an evaluation of this letter. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Have you had this letter evaluated? What were the results of this? With regard to Article 410 of the Criminal Code and the Sidis Suite, what is the state of play regarding the adaptation to Sidis Suite? Has this already been ordered? We must, of course, recognise that the anklet also offers advantages, such as reducing the overpopulation in prisons. As an alternative to the complete exclusion of the perpetrators of intra-family violence, it could also be chosen to allow them only the possibility of enforcement by anklet if they choose a location other than that where the victims of intra-family violence are located. What do you think of this alternative?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, you refer to ET/SE-2. I have indeed commissioned an evaluation of the application of electronic surveillance as a mode of execution for the penalties under the three years on which the prison director or the management of detention has decided. The Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions informs me that the evaluation of the letter has been completed, but the report still needs to be validated. I hope to have access to this soon so that we can know about the bottlenecks. As far as Sidis Suite is concerned, the application does indeed appear to allow the registration of facts as intra-family violence, but it appears necessary that this information and the exact articles of the Criminal Code for which the person concerned was sentenced by the decision to execute the offence, the prison note, are given by the court. Without this information it is not possible. If I may receive the evaluation of the letter in question, I will refer it to the College of Attorneys General so that it can be included in the relevant directives so that the exchange of this information can possibly be regulated in a different way, for example by linking the databases. However, as I mentioned earlier, we do not want to exclude electronic supervision in the place of residence in absolute terms for perpetrators of intra-family violence. In some cases, the convict has again reconciled with the victim and has a close relation to it. In practice, especially when it comes to electronic supervision as a mode of execution, there is sometimes a longer period of time between the offences and the execution where the perpetrator stayed in the victim's home in the meantime. Nor can it be the intention that the punishment here, after improved situation, should be the cause of additional tensions and risks and, paradoxically, would prevent a normalization of the situation. In this sense, it is more important, in my view, to provide for electronic surveillance as a mode of pre-trial detention that this measure cannot be carried out in the victim's home than for electronic supervision as a mode of execution. This is a period which immediately follows the facts in which the prevention of repeated violence, i.e. the cessation of violence, is the condition. I will take this into account in my proposals to amend the law on pre-trial detention which I will present to the government in the near future. Electronic surveillance will still be possible when a place of residence other than the victim's residence is available. Another possibility is to carry out prior social investigations in these files. Some prisons are now in contact with the roommate who is also the victim, but it would of course be better if the judicial assistant could go on the spot to discuss and assess the situation. This, however, falls within the competence of the Communities and is very labour-intensive. The resources are not available to allow this to happen systematically.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Can you tell me when the results of the evaluation will be reviewed? Then, of course, I will come back to it at that time, in order, if necessary, to learn about this evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u59	This should be done in a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u60	Okay, then I'll definitely come back to it later. With regard to what you say about wearing an ankle bracelet in the context of pre-trial detention in cases of intra-family violence, it seems obvious to me that this cannot be done within the family context. That would be absurd. Furthermore, I continue to have questions about the fact that you do not want to completely exclude that anklet in the context of intra-family violence because there may be a possibility of reconciliation. If the anklet is awarded as part of the execution of intra-family violence, it is always an alternative to imprisonment. Of course, if the prison sentence can be carried out, no account will be taken of the fact that a reconciliation has taken place in the meantime. I still find that reasoning strange. I'll come back to the evaluation of the circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 9531 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u62	Minister, as you know, Veurne's office has been using a new working method for some time now. When traffic offenders ask for a mild penalty, they first check whether they still have fines open. If that is the case, they must be paid before an alternative penalty can be imposed. That is a smart thing to say, because that would have allowed fines of EUR 33 000 to be collected in Veurne. However, the procedure used for this purpose is very cumbersome. In each case, the recipient of penalty fines must be called in because the prosecutors themselves cannot directly verify whether or not an accused person still has an outstanding debt. That's why the Veurne District Attorney asked to give Justice access to those outstanding fines. If that were possible, he claims, that the Belgian Treasury could generate an additional EUR 3 to 5 million per year, and you also know that every penny can count, so that would be nice. We know that around EUR 300 million in penalty fines are not collected today. This government is making an improvement in the collection. For example, a pilot project is already under way in Ghent, where bailiffs collect fines from defaulters. This pilot project also provided additional revenue. In that connection, Minister, I have the following questions. What is your position on the idea of giving Justice access to the databases of Finance, so that there is a conscience as to where there are still outstanding fines? Will you or will you not take steps to make this possible with your colleague, the Minister of Finance, so that efficiency gains can also be made in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u63	Mrs De Wit, the execution of penalty fines is a priority for me, even as a former Minister of Finance. Following the follow-up audit carried out by the Court of Auditors in 2014, the consultative body for the coordination of the recovery of non-fiscal debts in criminal matters was set up to succeed the Action Plan "Implementation of financial penalties' for both departments. The implementation of the Action Plan is the subject of ongoing consultations with Minister Van Overtveldt. It is laid down by law that the representatives of the Ministers of Justice and Finance meet at the meeting of the consultative body for the coordination of the recovery of non-fiscal debts in criminal matters. That body has been meeting every three months since its establishment in 2014. On 19 February I met the Minister of Finance to discuss the collection of penalty fines, in particular the exchange of information between Finance and Justice. Both departments are currently developing technical solutions for the best possible computerisation of this exchange. A controlled access by the Justice Department to the Treasury database is a possible option that has already been addressed in the consultation body, in which the prosecutor of Veurne is represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is interesting to look for technical solutions so that better data exchange is possible. In these times when almost everyone can figure out which shoe size one has, it's a little strange that the Justice Department still couldn't know these things. It seems obvious to me that this is being done. I hope that you will find a solution quickly and that that part of the justice system will also be more accessible and digitised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u65	Mr President, Minister, on February 9, the suicide of little Madison moved the entire Belgian community. As a result of this case, it is important to "re-examine" cyber-harassment legislation. Indeed, the number of people subjected to online harassment and paedophilia remains considerable. The ease of publication via information and communication technologies, coupled with the possibilities of anonymity and concealment behind a screen, makes it difficult to prosecute many harassers whose harms often remain unpunished. Freedom of expression without limits continues to be the rule online. It is true that the balance between freedom of expression and non-discrimination is difficult to establish. Online activities deserve to be analysed, interviewed and observed at the prism of respect for human rights. Anonymity or anonymity gives the Internet user a sense of impunity that encourages verbal outburst, which can promote the spread of hate speech, including gender-based hate speech. These can be far-reaching, as in the case of Madison. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following few questions. Can you give us more information about the legislation on cyber-harassment in the case of social networks and especially Facebook? What initiatives are in place to stop cyber-harassment and avoid impunity for cyber-harassment, while preserving our fundamental values of freedom of expression and privacy? As a court release is expected from citizens, what about the ongoing investigation into Madison's death?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u66	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, with regard to the criminalization of cyberharassment, I can refer you to several legal provisions. A specific criminalisation is provided for in Article 145, § 3a, of the Law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications. It deals specifically with the use of an electronic communications network and service or other means of electronic communication for the purpose of importing or causing damage to others. In addition, cyber-harassment may be punished as harassment within the meaning of article 442 bis. The legal elements to this effect are:- harassment, i.e. harassing a person so that it causes harm to that person; - behaviour that seriously disturbs someone's tranquillity (a particular person must therefore be targeted); - finally, the author must know or must have known that his behaviour would seriously disturb the tranquillity of this person. No specific intent is required. As you know, Mrs Van Cauter's bill was recently passed, dissociating harassment from its nature as an offence prosecuted on complaint. As a result, the Public Prosecutor's Office may decide independently to prosecute, even if the victim dies and the relatives do not file a complaint. Finally, other provisions of the Criminal Code may be applicable, such as slander and defamation, hacking of a computer system and malicious manipulation of data in a computer system and acts of morality referred to in articles 383 and 383 bis of the Criminal Code. There is therefore an array of legal means to intervene against cyber-harassment. An effective approach to combating cyber-harassment and harassment in general requires, first and foremost, a comprehensive, broad social approach in which children and young people become aware at a young age of the dangers of the Internet and the terrible consequences of harassment. In particular, education and well-being can play an important role in information and awareness-raising, but this role can also be supported by culture and the private sector. Of course, companies that manage social media must commit themselves to taking complaints seriously and making the necessary commitments in their terms of use in order to avoid prohibiting and, where appropriate, restricting certain undesirable behaviour. In the fight against cyber-harassment, justice brings only the final repressive conclusion, when unfortunately it is already too late. Thirdly, with regard specifically to the tragic suicide of little Madison, you will understand that I cannot comment more on an individual case. So I won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u67	Minister, thank you for your very specific answers. I agree with you that there is a need for a lot of awareness. I would also point out to you that Isabelle Simonis has just launched a process of training about fifty cyber patrollers at the level of the French Community. They will be responsible for detecting and prosecuting young people who harass on social networks. With regard to the non-monitoring of the involvement of social networks, are there any provisions in case these networks do not follow? There is nothing that exists, so if they do not meet their commitments, there is currently nothing to pursue them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u68	Mr President, Minister, at present, the application of section 792 of the Judicial Code requires a systematic and free communication of an unsigned copy of judgments and judgments in civil matters to each of the parties or their lawyers. In criminal matters, however, these documents are issued only on request and in return for a right of registry. In addition to applying an additional cost to the litigant, the requirement of such a right of registry constitutes a real difficulty in the exercise of the profession of lawyer, which could be reinforced in the future by the obligation to justify criminal decisions, as proposed by the "pot-pourri Il" reform project. On the other hand, the professionals in the sector have recently drawn my attention to the legal uncertainty surrounding this issue. Indeed, practices would seem to differ according to the judicial districts, some issuing these copies free of charge considering that article 792 of the Judicial Code constitutes the ordinary law of the procedure. On the basis of a 2015 report by the Court of Auditors, they also argue that the free obligation to transmit a copy of the judgment in criminal matters, subject to the necessary computer applications allowing the digitisation and automatic transmission of copies of the judgment, would allow a significant increase in the efficiency of the administrative functioning of the courts and tribunals able to compensate for the loss of revenue generated by the abolition of the right of registry. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. Can you inform me of the status of the implementation of computer applications that will eventually enable the automatic generation and dispatch of judgment in computer format? In view of the above, are your services considering the possibility of harmonizing legal practice by removing the requirement of a right of registry when issuing copies of judgements in criminal matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, a number of IT projects are needed to achieve this. First of all, there is the central database of judgments and judgments. This database exists and has already been deployed in the appeal courts. This project is being modernized to make electronic signature possible for authentic documents such as judgments. We will then ensure that all courts are able to register their judgements. Thereafter, these judgements will need to be sent to lawyers by secure electronic means. As you know, the "pot-pourri I" law has already created a legal basis for the e-box that will be deployed for lawyers so that we can transmit judgments to them electronically. The technical team develops the launch of the deployment programme with, among other things, the collaboration of the bars. With regard to payments, which are currently a slowing factor, we are working on an electronic payment platform launched at the initiative of the legal profession. By means of a kind of home and current account, it will allow the electronic collection of allowances due, among other things, to these copies. As a result, payment and its verification will no longer be a slowing factor or a cost factor. I am always very careful when it comes to ICT projects, but I hope that these projects will be implemented at the end of this year or the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u70	Minister, there is still a pending issue, one of the main reasons for my intervention today, which would have been whether issuing a copy of a judgment by way of payment of a registry fee is, in view of the ongoing reforms, against the current law or not. I think we agree, and I am very pleased that you are joining me on this point, because it causes a certain slowdown. It would have been appropriate to be able to decide on this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u71	Mr Minister, it appears from a study by the King Baudouin Foundation that the vast majority of Belgians want more freedom in managing their inheritance. The Belgian would like to be able to favour children and partners according to his own wishes and not by being forced to follow the legal rules. I am the only one asking this question, and I am surprised. The legal reserve system protects children by automatically granting them part of the deceased's assets. Currently, if the deceased has three or more children, the reserve reaches three quarters of the patrimony. Minister, my question is simple. What is your assessment of this study, particularly as regards the advisability of amending the regulation on the legal reserve by limiting it, for example, to half of the deceased's assets?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u72	Mrs Jadin, like you, it was with great attention that I became aware of this very interesting study by the King Baudouin Foundation entitled "Perceptions and expectations of inheritance law in Belgium". One of the findings of this study was, of course, people's demand for greater freedom of succession. However, it should be pointed out that this study also shows that people consider it important, however, to preserve family solidarity, possibly in a new form, as a fundamental value. In my November 2015 policy note, I indicated that the main challenge in estate law was to find a new balance between family solidarity and an individual's freedom of disposition. The direction of this reform is towards greater freedom of choice in determining who will be the beneficiary of a legacy. In addition, the possibility of increasing the available inheritance quota will of course be examined. It is important to be able to draw up a tailor-made regulation for each specific family situation. As a result of this agreement, I set up a working group of specialists to examine possible reforms in the search for an appropriate balance between family solidarity and an individual's freedom of disposition. The work of this group of experts deals in particular with the problem of the reserve. As we know, our current law provides for a reserve for descendants, ascendants and surviving spouses. Both the justification and the modalities of these three reservations, including their extent, are discussed by the expert group. The proposal you are making to limit the importance of the reserve for children is an interesting avenue that will be taken into consideration by the working group, whose work will be completed this fall. This work will lead to a martyred text on the basis of which we will seek broad social support. I invite you to conduct the political debate on the basis of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. Indeed, it is enriching to see that evolution, including our legal system, can sometimes, not exceed us, but in any case, animate us to carry out the right reflections. I understand that you have also read this study and that you have already taken steps to deepen some of the elements that have been outlined. I will, of course, come back here in committee, after the studies that have been carried out by your group of experts, to see what proposals can be drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u74	Mr.President, Minister, in Le Soir of February 2, 2016, in particular, an article denounces flaws in the application of the new law on provisional administration - protection of property and persons considered vulnerable. In Belgium, 80,000 people are subject to this regime, and there are increasing mobilizations to highlight the fact that complaints of misapplication cannot be brought to fruition, that people are being looted, that lawyers and administrators do not apply this law properly. The purpose of the Act was to improve the mechanisms, to take into account the capacities of persons before taking into account their disability, to be able to offer them a mechanism to protect them, either to assist them or to represent them in identified areas, with them and their entourage. Are all these complaints that are highlighted today the result of the new law or the ethics of the supervision of the actors involved in these arrangements? This new law is complex and several meetings have been held. They have pointed out that, for example, when the person is to be represented or assisted in fundamental acts, no one can decide in his place and the judge is the only one who can take decisions with full powers. Several justice actors say that the Law of Mentally Ill Persons Act of 1990 should be used to improve mechanisms. Another example is that the administrator who receives the order does not know the financial situation and lifestyles. However, this mechanism should highlight this. The accounts are blocked and there would therefore be a request for this information to be included in the hearing reports and to be transmitted directly to the administrators. This is, in any case, different lines of action that are highlighted. You say that this year you are going to complete the production of royal decrees for better supervision. I would have wanted to know what was being targeted by these measures. What are the means to prevent such acts, and on what agenda? Will you draw on the 1990 Law on the Limitation of the Rights of Mentally Ill Persons with a view to improving the mechanisms? How are you going to make an inventory of those who don't work well? Should there be a new law on the representation of someone in vulnerable situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u75	Minister, my question relates to the applicability of the March 17 Act. As Mrs Gerkens has just said, there are about 100,000 people incapacitated and therefore placed under a system of legal protection in our country. An administrator is then responsible, upon the decision of a justice of the peace, for managing his or her property. In September 2014, a new protection regime came into force. Today, the actors on the ground are denouncing the loopholes in the application of the new law. For example, nine out of ten justices of the peace are unable to apply it, owing in particular to a lack of human and technical resources in the face of increased workload. Although I did not participate in the legislative work, I know that the new regime was intended to improve and customize the protection of vulnerable people. The associations and other actors who had informed us of the need for a revision of the legal provisions highlighted a problem in the selection of directors. Thus, the justice of the peace must give preference to a relative rather than a professional administrator. However, Minister, in 80% of cases, lawyers are appointed as directors. Perhaps I will be beaten, including by some members of my political family, but these lawyers are sometimes in charge of 300 to 500 protection cases. The question of a personalized accompaniment obviously arises, especially in the light of the law of September 2014. So I have a few questions, minister, but I'm going to confine myself to two of them. Given the many criticisms from the field, what do you think about the applicability and effectiveness of this law? Is it really applicable given current tools and means? Would it not be appropriate to limit the number of professional administrators' files in order to allow personalized support for those judged – that is the right word – as incapable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u76	Colleagues, as I have said on several occasions, we are working in consultation with all parties concerned on a number of legislative initiatives that should simplify and improve the implementation of the law of 17 March 2013 reforming disability regimes and introducing a new protection status in line with human dignity. Specifically, as mentioned in the political guidance note of 10 November 2015, we are currently considering a bill to simplify existing legislation and adapt it to practical difficulties. To do so, I am basing myself on the difficulties raised by the various parties concerned and on their suggestions in order to improve the operation of the law in accordance with the objective pursued by the legislator. These suggestions are under consideration. This includes simplifying the family administrator's mandate and reducing the workload of the justice of the peace. We are also preparing two royal decrees in consultation with all the actors concerned. First, there is a royal decree containing a list of health conditions deemed to impair, seriously and persistently, the person's ability to assume the management of his or her economic interests as referred to in article 492/5 of the Civil Code. This royal decree will be drafted in consultation with my colleague, Minister Maggie De Block. Then comes a royal order to tax the administrator's fees and fees. This royal decree must increase transparency and uniformity in taxation. The negotiations are proceeding constructively. A consensus has already been reached on many issues among all relevant actors, including justices of the peace, the Supreme Council of Justice, the Bar Association and the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities. A few fundamental points still need to be discussed. In consultation with the Communities and all the parties concerned, I also wish to work towards an appropriate management of the function of administrator. In accordance with article 497/1 of the Civil Code, the King may make the exercise of the function of administrator subject to certain conditions, in particular by limiting the number of persons for whom he or she may be a director. Mandatory training and conditions and limitations for the exercise of the function could therefore be considered for professional administrators. This work will be started once the two above-mentioned decrees have been adopted. All complaints addressed to me by citizens and associations concerning the application of the law of 17 March 2013 have been forwarded to the Supreme Council of Justice, which will examine them in committee of opinion and inquiry. On the other hand, I do not have any additional information concerning the facts referred to in the article of the newspaper Le Soir of February 2, 2016. It is likely that these facts do not relate to the application of the new law for two reasons. First, there is the issue of interim administration and interim administrators. However, the new Act replaces the provisional administration with an administration of the property and/or the person. Persons protected under the new Act are therefore assisted or represented by a director and not a provisional administrator. Furthermore, in one of the cases referred to, he referred to a 2013 indictment. However, the Act of 17 March 2013 reforming disability regimes and introducing a new protection status consistent with human dignity entered into force on 1 September 2015. I would remind you that the Act of 17 March 2013 provides for precise control over how the administrator carries out his or her duties. Furthermore, the order of the justice of the peace may be subject to the usual remedies (appeal and cassation). Complaints against a justice of the peace may be addressed to the Supreme Council of Justice or to its head of corps. A justice of the peace may be subject to disciplinary sanctions if he or she fails to perform his or her duties or if, by his or her conduct, he or she violates the dignity of his or her character. The staff member is competent to deal with complaints against lawyers of his or her order concerning violations of the principles of dignity, probity and delicacy which are the basis of the profession of lawyer. The King's Prosecutor shall also ensure the regularity of the services of the courts and tribunals. Finally, I will say that we are working to improve the accessibility of the new law for the citizen. Thus the Justice FPS website has become more user-friendly. It is now possible to download free templates of reports and requests as well as an information brochure. My ambition is also to draw up, in consultation with all the actors concerned, examples of good practice in the field of administration, as provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u77	Minister, I see the elements that you want to improve. Some professional missions need to be clarified. All stakeholders, be they professional administrators – judges, lawyers, etc. – or not, say that the law is good, but that it is complicated, that the mind must be preserved and that it must be easier to apply. Above all, the tools must be simplified and the various actors must be informed. You're talking about reducing the burden of judges, I guess that means increasing their coaching so that their work is more manageable. Or is it a matter of removing them from missions, taking away work from them? That would be amazing! This work is obviously linked to the family court and the reform of the judicial system, because it also had to be done so that it could properly carry out its tasks. Lawyers who are lawyers administrators and who do almost nothing but this are developing a tool to guide this mission, with a charter of good practice. I think Mr. Giet is involved in this process with this lawyer administrator. I obviously agree with the need to limit the number of cases, which has been discussed at length. If professional administrators specialize in doing just that, they still need to limit the number of files, demand quality and demand that they be surrounded by competent and complementary staff. Those who relay information about faults should be stressed that it is important to distinguish the old law from the new law. We must denounce the flaws, we must act, but we must not make it appear that the new law is responsible for all the difficulties that people have been experiencing in this area for the past fifteen years, if they have been abused by administrators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have two elements. First of all, there is your will to stop this phenomenon. I consider the number of cases handled by administrators to be excessive. This does not meet reality or need. It is clear that there is a need to avoid certain formalities that are not useful to persons with disabilities as a result of a court decision. Secondly, I do not agree with Mrs Gerkens' analysis. Minister, I am aware of the difficult reforms that you need to undertake in order to achieve significant and necessary savings, while at the same time ensuring the proper functioning of the judicial system. The applicability of this law is part of the reforms that you are undertaking at other levels. For example, with regard to family law, certain tasks will no longer be assigned to the judiciary. We will have to think about it while keeping the spirit of the law and also allowing us to pursue our budgetary objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u79	Mr President, Minister, the federal government has recently taken the decision not to renew the contract which expires at the end of December 2016 with the Tilburg prison, which has been used by the prison administration since 2010 and which has hosted up to 650 Belgian prisoners. On the accounting side, it is a positive saving of around EUR 42 million, which is not negligible. However, according to an article last week, unions and professionals in the prison sector are concerned about this decision. Indeed, combined with the government's objective of reducing staff by 10 per cent, the repatriation of the 400 to 500 Belgian detainees still present in Tilburg would, in their view, contribute to a further increase in prison overcrowding. Minister, what is the exact number of detainees still residing in Tilburg Prison? How will we organise the distribution of these prisoners in prisons in our territory in order to achieve this savings of €42 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u80	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the number of prisoners in Tilburg Prison is currently 500. Depopulation is to be organized by December 15, 2016. From May onwards, the occupation of cells in Tilburg will be gradually reduced. The reduction in cellular capacity of 500 places will, first of all, be offset by an additional capacity of about 100 places in Belgian establishments, as, for example, by the opening of the last wing of Leuze prison. By the end of the year, the Centre de psychiatrie légale in Antwerp (182 places) will be operational and the interned persons will be gradually transferred from Belgian prisons. In addition, I have also created, with my colleague from Public Health, additional places to enter the legal sector, for example 30 places in Bierbeek, 20 places in Zelzate and 30 places in Tournai (Les Marronniers). Finally, I will soon introduce a draft bill to limit the number of persons in pre-trial detention. Together with my colleagues from the Interior and Asylum and Migration, I will continue to invest in the repatriation of convicted persons without a right of residence. We must, in fact, avoid an increase in overcrowding, taking into account both the working conditions of prison staff and the humane treatment of prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u81	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer, which was very clear as usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u82	Question No 8526 by Mrs Monica De Coninck is withdrawn because of her absence. Question No 9246 by Mrs Karine Lalieux is postponed. Question No 9459 by Mr Sebastian Pirlot is transformed into a written question. Questions No 9484 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and No 9511 by Mrs Karine Lalieux are postponed. Question No 9543 by Mr Franky Demon was withdrawn. Question No 9558 by Georges Gilkinet is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u83	Minister, you recently announced that you want to adapt the bail system to make it a more effective tool to combat the risk of embezzlement. You state, justified, that not all the persons concerned can deposit an effective bond in cash. That is why you are proposing an expansion of the system so that one or more third parties can bail for the accused without making an effective payment. This would be an innovation and a significantenlargement of the system. That is why, Minister, my questions are as follows. Are investigating judges seeking this measure? What would be the precise modalities? As of 1 January 2016, there were, if my figures are correct, 7,000 persons on bail. Do you have a forecast of the number of people who would be eligible for bail in the future if the system were expanded? How soon could this expansion of the bail system take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic345x.u84	Mr President, the system of extending the bail system is not requested by the investigating judges. This amendment was discussed at the level of the experts responsible for the reform of the criminal procedure. As you indicate, the intention is to introduce the payment of a surety also in the form of a certain claim by which a third party guarantees the payment if the accused did not appear without a legal cause of apology in any act of procedure or enforcement of the judgment. The precise arrangements are still under discussion and will of course be submitted to the Justice Committee. Perhaps in the context of the examination of the "pot-pourri IV" law. The aim is to avoid the use of pre-trial detention in more cases by imposing a guarantee combined with conditional release. I am unable to assess the increase in the number of bonds that will result from this measure.
